ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e62	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e67	On behalf of a cross-political alliance between Jon Gunnes, from Left, Une Bastholm, from the Environmental Party of the Greens, and myself – and all the friends of Bymarka in Trondheim – I would like to make a proposal to ask the government to impose a separate urban law on Bymarka in Trondheim à la Marka law in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e72	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e79	The President will state that the Financial Committee has sent a letter to the Presidency requesting that the time limits for the budgetary procedure be suspended, as referred to in Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will therefore propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the third paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure that the Financial Committee should give its opinion on the national budget and the State budget no later than 20 November. This means that the financial position will be given on Tuesday 27 November and that the financial debate will be held on Monday 3 December. As a consequence, it will not be possible for the Storting to examine the budgetary positions of the technical committees by the deadline of 15 December. The President will therefore also propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the sixth paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure that the budgetary positions of the Trade Union Committees should be reviewed by 15 December. Does anyone ask for the word? - That's not what it looks like. Nor has the President reported that someone has announced that they will vote against the President's proposal. – The President’s proposal is thus deemed to be adopted. The timetable for the release and management of the budgetary settings will be published as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e101	Norway’s cooperation with the EU is far off and the European agenda is diverse. In this presentation, I will raise some selected issues – the EEA Agreement and regulatory international cooperation, brexit, security, migration and common values. In addition, the government is launching a new practice today by bringing together one of the two half-yearly presentations by several government councils. We're doing this to be able to go deep on and engage in debate on selected topics. This time, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of Transport will report on important EU/EEA matters in their responsibilities. Promoting regulatory international cooperation is one of my most important tasks as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Norway is a small country with an open economy and a strategically vulnerable position. A law-based international order with strong multilateral institutions provides clarity and predictability. It's in our basic interest. Today, we see that the multilateral system is under pressure with the guise of protectionism, nationalism and political isolation. We see that international law, including fundamental human rights, is also being broken in Europe. This is a disturbing development. In the spring of 2019, the government delivers a message to the Stortinget about Norway's role in the multilateral system. In this message, European cooperation will have a central place. The EU and central EU Member States are our closest partners in the defence of multilateral solutions, both within and outside Europe. Climate and trade are important examples. Another example is the EU's strong commitment to maintaining the nuclear agreement with Iran. In the defence of a law-based international order, the government will cooperate with other countries, not least our European and Nordic neighbours. Our destiny is the same: we are all dependent on respect for international driving rules and institutions that have been built since the end of World War II. The EEA Agreement is our most comprehensive multilateral agreement. Through this agreement, we participate too fully in the EU's internal market. It guarantees Norwegian enterprises access to the market on equal terms with the EU Member States and gives Norwegians the right to study, work and establish themselves freely throughout the EEA territory. Today, a lot of people take these opportunities for granted. Therefore, the EEA Agreement is not only our most comprehensive agreement, it is also our main agreement. The Economist described last week the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU as the most difficult bureaucratic exercise in the postwar period. It goes without saying that cancelling agreements and treaties that have been concluded and woven together for over 45 years is both challenging and time consuming. The brexit process has also shown how difficult it would be to replace full participation in the internal market, which we have through the EEA, with another link that offers similar opportunities for businesses and individuals. The EEA Agreement is based on legislation that is applied equally throughout the EEA territory. This is a prerequisite for non-discrimination between Norwegian enterprises and citizens. Norway is therefore fundamentally served by a single internal market legislation. We work with the EU institutions and Member States every day to influence the design of the legislation so that it is as much as possible in line with Norwegian priorities and interests. Compromises are the basis for international cooperation. If all parties are to be strengthened by cooperation, they must also be prepared to accept elements that were not initially desired. This applies not least to EEA cooperation, which requires uniform practice of common legislation. Such cooperation would quickly be confused if someone could choose which parts of the legislation they wanted to follow and which parts they wanted to ignore. Where the Contracting Parties disagree on the inclusion of new EU legislation into the EEA Agreement, Article 102 of the EEA Agreement shall apply. This provision is there to ensure the functioning of the EEA Agreement for its purposes, which is a well-functioning internal market in the EEA territory. If we do not agree to include EEA-relevant legislation, the relevant part of the EEA Agreement could be suspended temporarily. It could have consequences for individuals and businesses, depending on the legislation that is being outlawed. The government's view is that Norwegian interests are best protected if we actively participate in the development of common rules, not by reserving ourselves afterwards. Norway has built its well-being on trade with other countries. Thus, in an era of escalating trade conflict, it becomes even more important to fence the agreement with our sovereign largest market. We should therefore have a very high threshold to trigger Article 102 of the EEA Agreement. The Brexit process is now in a crucial phase. The most difficult issue, the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland, remains unresolved. Therefore, the EU and the United Kingdom did not agree on a call-out agreement at the October summit. Further negotiations are under way, and the EU has signaled that they are ready to convene an extraordinary summit if there is a breakthrough in the negotiations before the next regular EU summit on 13 and 14 December. On the part of the government, we consider that it is still likely that an agreement will be put in place, but at the same time the obstacles are very real. We therefore have an ongoing dialogue with the EU and the United Kingdom on possible measures in case there is no agreement. Among other things, it will be important to ensure that air traffic between Norway and the United Kingdom can continue and that the introduction of vital medicinal products does not stop. Seafood is another example. Here we assume that EU market access obligations for Norwegian seafood continue independently of the number of EU Member States, and we avoid a situation of increased customs or veterinary barriers to trade if the EU and the United Kingdom do not reach an agreement. The exit agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom will mainly include provisions on the orderly winding-up of British membership linked to three main elements: the continuation of the rights acquired by EU citizens and British citizens through British EU membership; the border issue between Ireland and Northern Ireland; United Kingdom’s continuing financial liabilities after their outsourcing It is important to clarify that the outsourcing agreement negotiated by the EU and the United Kingdom is not intended to regulate future cooperation. It shall contain only a political declaration on the framework for the future relationship. The agreement itself, or the agreements, whether the future relationship will only be negotiated when the United Kingdom is no longer an EU member. The delegation agreement will provide for a transitional period from the date of notification, which is 29 March 2019, to 31 December 2020. This may be extended if the parties so agree. During the transitional period, the EU and the United Kingdom are to negotiate a future contractual relationship. The United Kingdom shall no longer be an EU member but shall be subject to the rules and obligations of non-voting membership. This applies both internally in the EU and in the EU international agreements, such as the EEA Agreement, to which the United Kingdom no longer applies when they leave the EU. It is also worth noting that during the transitional period the United Kingdom will have fewer opportunities to participate in expert groups, committees and EU agencies than the EEA/EFTA countries have. The aim of the government is to secure the EEA Agreement, to ensure the continued functioning of the internal market and to contribute to the orderly withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU and the EEA. We have also said clearly that we want a closer relationship with the United Kingdom after it has left the EU. Norway is not a party to the EU-UK callout agreement. We are therefore working with legal solutions, which ensure that the rights and obligations of the EEA Agreement and our other agreements with the EU also apply between Norway and the United Kingdom during the transitional period. We are now, in reality, in the context of an agreement with the United Kingdom on how to extend the rights of the approximately 20,000 North Americans who live in the United Kingdom and the 15 000 British who live in this country – the rights and obligations they have acquired through the EEA. It ensures the same rights and obligations for our citizens agreed between the EU and the United Kingdom. This agreement could be concluded as soon as the UK-EU outsourcing agreement has been formally concluded. We are also preparing legislative and regulatory changes that will be necessary for Norwegian rules to reflect the relevant provisions of the notice agreement. On 4 October the Ministry of Justice and Defence put forward proposals to that effect and the deadline for consultation was 30 November. Norway will use the transitional period to negotiate with the United Kingdom in parallel with the EU and the United Kingdom negotiating their new contractual relationship. On 30 October, Prime Ministers May and Solberg met in Oslo and confirmed that Norway and the United Kingdom will put in place schemes to protect Norwegian and British citizens who currently live in our two countries. This applies even if there is no agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom. During the visit, Prime Minister May also repeated that the EEA model is not relevant for the United Kingdom. She stressed that this would not be in accordance with the will of the people, as expressed in the British referendum. The aim is therefore to continue as close and comprehensive cooperation with the United Kingdom as possible and in line with Norwegian interests, but thus outside the current EEA framework. In areas currently covered by the EEA Agreement, it will be important to ensure that the solutions adopted by the EU and the United Kingdom also apply to the EEA/EFTA countries. This will ensure that Norwegian businesses have equal access to the UK market in the future. As I pointed out in the spring presentation, the EU and EU Member States have taken a wide range of initiatives to increase defence investment and strengthen coordination between themselves. New initiatives have also taken place since the beginning of the year, including outside EU cooperation. In June, nine countries, including France, Germany and the United Kingdom, signed a declaration of intent on the so-called European intervention initiative. The initiative will strengthen the ability of Member States to operate together and contribute to EU, NATO or UN operations. Norway is invited to participate, and the initiative is both interesting and relevant — not least in view of the fact that many of our closest allies will participate. We are now assessing the content of the initiative in more detail and the consequences of any Norwegian participation before we reach a decision. For Norway, it is important that responsibility for all member countries continues to lie in NATO. At the same time, government is in favour of the EU strengthening its defence and security cooperation as long as it complements and strengthens NATO in a good way and does not contribute to ambiguity and overlapping structures. We therefore follow developments closely and work to further develop political dialogue with the EU on defence and security policy. We also work to strengthen practical cooperation and ensure good conditions for the Norwegian defence industry. Migration remains high on the EU agenda. Currently, there are few asylum seekers in Norway. This is not the case in other European countries. So far, 470 000 people have applied for asylum in the EU. The debate on reforming the Dublin rules has been going on for a long time. It has been difficult to find consensus between countries that believe that large arrivals of migrants should be burden-sharing and countries that want the burden-sharing to be voluntary. The EU is now discussing a mechanism to ensure that all countries take their share of responsibility, either by receiving asylum seekers or by contributing otherwise. The government believes that there should be a binding burden-sharing between all countries. If discussions in the EU conclude with a voluntary scheme and Norway receives an enquiry in this regard, the government will consider whether we should participate. At the June European Council, the Heads of State or Government of the EU outlined measures to help migrants who want to cross the Mediterranean to be taken ashore in a more predictable and controlled way in the EU. We also discussed measures to improve the ability of North African countries to carry out their search and rescue obligations. This will allow migrants to be safely carried ashore on the other side of the Mediterranean. The Government supports European solutions in the field of asylum and migration and participates in discussions on finding feasible compromises. We are basically in favour of the proposals on controlled centres and regional landing schemes, but it remains to be seen how these will work in practice. The direct consequences of these discussions for Norway are too early to say. If a voluntary relocation or resettlement system is established in connection with the new proposals, the government will decide on it. The EU has taken the same assumptions into account. In the same way as in the EU, Norwegian-based measures in third countries to be supported by Norway must be in line with obligations under international law, including human rights. A sustained pressure on the external borders of Schengen lies behind the proposal of the European Commission to extend the tasks of the Frontex Border and Coast Guard Agency. These include: proposed to establish a standing crew of 10000 and to assign tasks to the Agency in the field of return. The Government is in favour of strengthening its efforts to secure the external borders of Schengen. In the current negotiations, the government will emphasise that the management of external borders is primarily a national responsibility and that the Agency's workforce, responsibilities and tasks need to be adapted accordingly. In addition, the European Commission has proposed amendments to the Return Directive, which will help to make return work more effective. The government wants to contribute to stabilisation in vulnerable countries through education, job creation and the development of governance, and has therefore proposed to double the allocation to vulnerable states in the State budget. Through our participation in Schengen cooperation, we participate in important EU policies and actions related to tackling migration challenges, including better control of the external borders. Norway also participates informally in the discussions on new measures to reduce the number of migrants at risk of life crossing the Mediterranean Sea. This is an area that is not covered by our contractual cooperation with the EU, but where the results that may be achieved will also be of great importance to us. Norway has, inter alia: contributed to the EU Multi-stakeholder Fund for Africa, and we announced a new contribution of 60 million on 21 September. kr to the fund, which is an increase of 10 million. kr in relation to the contribution for the previous year. In total, Norway has now contributed 140 million. kr. We will support further investigation of landing schemes in Africa subject to an active role for the UNHCR and the IOM and consider possible forms of contribution if such schemes are to be established. If it becomes appropriate to accept asylum seekers in order to allocate responsibilities between Schengen countries, this shall be taken within the number of quota refugees. The UK outreach process requires resources on both sides, and negotiations on a future EU-UK agreement will take time. However, I believe that brexit is not the biggest challenge for European cooperation now. The fact that some EU countries are now openly asking questions about common values and principles for cooperation is very serious and the EU institutions are responding. The first step in the EU sanctioning procedure for breaches of fundamental values, Article 7, has been taken against Poland and Hungary. The Commission has sent to the Court of Justice of the European Union an infringement of the Treaty on the reduction of the retirement age of Polish Supreme Court judges. In a decision taken on 19 October, the EU Court of Justice ordered Poland to return to the composition of the Supreme Court as it was before a large number of judges were forced to retire in July. In addition, we see that courts in some EU countries are now sceptical about cooperating with the judiciary in Poland. Norway is fully dependent on our close partners in Europe respecting fundamental rule of law. Independent courts guarantee individual legal certainty and a cornerstone of democracy. Legal predictability and non-discrimination are essential for the functioning of the internal market and the EEA. Of course, independent courts are also crucial when working together on justice and police matters. Norway supports the EU’s defence of the rule of law, and we express our concern for developments when we meet Polish and Hungarian authorities. We use the EEA funds to keep high the democratic rule of law values on which EEA cooperation is based. The funds shall contribute to strengthening civil society and the justice sector in the beneficiary countries, in line with the principles of rule of law, democracy and good governance. Independent management of civil society funds is also an important principle. While other programmes are managed by the authorities of the beneficiary countries, civil society programmes shall always be managed by independent fund operators after open calls. It is not the case, as a spokesman for the Hungarian authorities recently stated, that the EEA funds actually belong to the recipient countries. The EEA funds are the contribution of the EEA/EFTA countries to social and economic cohesion in the EU. These are funds made available to the recipient countries. Agreements are being negotiated on the use of funds in each country. Cooperation shall and must be based on fundamental values and in line with signed agreements. In our further cooperation with Poland and Hungary on EEA funds, we will also stand firm on our principles and underline the contribution of EEA funds to the development of democracy, a well-functioning rule of law and a free and active civil society. The donor countries Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein are united. Our approach is in line with the donor countries’ agreement with the EU and is also supported by the Commission and the central Member States. Let me finish where I started: Rule-driven international cooperation is under pressure, including in Europe. It challenges the values we stand for, and it makes us more vulnerable. Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe. Working together for the multilateral system and respecting international legal order is a responsibility we share with the EU and the EU Member States.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e199	Thank you for the opportunity to brief the Storting on relevant EU and EEA issues in the field of transport. I would first like to say a little overarching about some important developments in this area and then go a little closer to the railway package and the mobility package. The government has submitted a state budget proposal of 73.1 billion in record terms. kr. So we've increased the licenses to a 75 pst journey. since the 2013 downgrading elections gave a new number of people. A significant part of this money is going to reduce travel time Norwegian exporters to Europe. One example is that while only 45 kilometres of motorway were opened from 1970 to 1995, in 25 years, the government is planning to open 104 kilometres with a new, safe four-field motorway in 2019. It provides better road safety and shorter and more sedentary travel time for people and businesses. An increasing number of cages in towns and cities, both in Norway and in Europe, will increase in the years to come. Both in Norway and in the EU, there is a strong interest in new and more forward-looking solutions, which make urban mobility both more efficient and greener, so-called smart mobility. Here the government is well-forbidden and has e.g. submitted a record high budget with large funds earmarked for urban areas. We have started negotiations on so-called urban growth agreements in the largest urban areas. We have a new law that facilitates the testing of self-propelled vehicles. We've had a competition for smart mobility solutions, and we've ordered the company Entur, which collects travel data and provides information to travellers from all public societies. This is just to mention something, and many of these things we are discussing with the EU. In general, we are close to ongoing processes in the EU, and we are working towards the countries of the Presidency. For example, we have a good dialogue with Finns, who have chaired the autumn 2019. The transport sector is one of the major sources of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway and Europe. Here, too, is the majority of emissions in the non-quota sector. In the Jeleia platform, government announced an ambition to halve emissions in the transport sector by 2030. In the national transport plan, the aim is for all new cars and light goods vehicles in 2025 to be zero-emission cars and all new buses to be zero-emission buses or useful biogas. Improved technological maturity in the driving segments is the basis for these measurements. It is therefore gratifying that the EU has put forward several measures to strengthen the development of green technologies. The EU includes: further develop the CO2 emissions legislation from passenger cars and light-duty vehicles for 2021-2030. In addition, the EU will work on emissions standards for heavy goods vehicles. The EU has also agreed that Member States should establish a national alternative fuel plan. The government is doing a good job. We support the new EU environmental legislation and believe it is particularly important to make driving noise technology more efficient and competitive. The government will continue to facilitate innovation and digitisation leading to a greener transport sector, for example. development of electric vessels, electric aeroplanes and self-propelled vehicles and vessels. We have already met the EU’s greenhouse gas emission requirements for passenger cars, including: as a result of the bet on electric cars and rechargeable hybrid cars. The proliferation of drones is growing rapidly, and the EU Aviation Agency, EASA, is developing a single European code for drones. Norwegian authorities participate actively in the design of this legislation through expert groups providing professional advice to the EU. I would also like to draw up the proposal of the European Commission from May this year on the creation of a so-called European Single Maritime Window. Here is a set of rules and technical frameworks for electronic information as a result of port call reporting. The aim is to simplify reporting for maritime transport. Norway already has a well-developed and well-functioning Single Window. We are systematically working to ensure that Norwegian needs are also addressed in the new EU legislation. Nor should we forget that digitisation depends on electronic infrastructure. In June this year, the EU countries became aware of a comprehensive set of new rules for electronic communications that will be adopted later this year. Among other things, the new legislation will facilitate the deployment of 5G mobile networks, stimulate cross-European investments, strengthen consumer protection and set price ceilings for international calls within the EEA area. From the Norwegian side, we are positive for this update. We have been actively involved in the process of Norwegian positions and concrete recordings. Here, in the 2019 draft budget, we announce that this is a high priority from the government. Norway is at the forefront when it comes to digital infrastructure and the use of digital services. We have a very high level of investment compared to other countries, and we have among the world's best and fastest mobile networks. In order to facilitate the continued growth and development of the ecosystem sector, a adapted and forward-looking regulatory framework is needed. The pan-European rules that the use of mobile and other mobile user equipment when travelling in the EEA area is no more expensive than it costs at home are a very good example of the value of a digital internal market and harmonised rules for electronic communications within the EEA. Norwegian eco-legislation is based on European legislation, and in line with the new pan-European legislation, we will review national legislation within two years. We'll come back to the Storting about this. The EU has also agreed that 5G frequencies should be made available in the EU by summer 2020. The government has reached an agreement on the early release of the 5G frequencies in Norway, which is currently used by the broadcasting background. With this, we are laying the groundwork for the Nordic countries to be a transitional region for 5G. The early release of the 700 MHz band facilitates the early start of 5G in Norway. It could have a major impact on society as a whole and especially on industry that uses mobile networks for automation, e.g. Internet. So I'll go over to the railroad. The overriding aim of the fourth railway package is to strengthen the railway’s role in the transport system. In the EU/EEA, one has already gone a long way in harmonising safety requirements and technical requirements, and one has a common framework for running trains under equivalent conditions. Now a step towards a single European railway area, by opening up national passenger markets. Train companies should be able to run trains as an alternative to existing public purchased services, but not to foam the flute, by e.g. only to run trains at the most profitable times. Furthermore, as a starting point, passenger train traffic must be on offer, as it has been here for a long time already for other public transport. It will still be possible to award public service contracts directly in individual circumstances, for example: when structural and geographical circumstances lead to better public services through direct allocation. The European Railway Agency, ERA, is the professional body of the European Commission for Railways. Their actions make it possible to look at the objectives of safety and interoperability of the European rail network in a holistic way. ERA now has a new role to play. The Agency will issue a common safety certificate to a train crew member to operate in several countries and will grant permission to a train crew member to operate in several countries. This will provide easier processes for those operating internationally and allow manufacturers of train equipment to offer their trains in a larger market. The requirements against which ERA assesses applications are the same as the national authorities. Here, the State Railway Authority has been an active contributor to creating new pan-European requirements that are capable of maintaining the high level of railway safety. The ERA shall always seek advice from the national security authorities before taking its decisions. I would like to stress that, in my view, Norway will continue to preserve the right of self-determination in the areas that are important to us. Norwegian authorities can specify the public services in the same way as they are currently. We can organise the sector as we like, and we can finance the railways over the public budgets. The national requirements we need can be continued, and the challenges we face, for example. look at wintertime, it is taken care of. The driving training requirements will not be changed. The State Railway Authority shall supervise and control the activities running in Norway, and they shall have the right to stop activities that are not safe enough. The supervisory authorities participated in all ERA work in the same way as the EU countries, but without the right to vote on the Board. Norway should take part in the cooperation because we are already part of the European railway area, especially in terms of access and traffic performance. Joint Undertakings shall grant equal treatment to all train companies in all countries of Europe. It is important for Norway that there are no unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles to cross-border transport. International links are very important for freight transport. Gothenburg port is important for our international trade, one of the European freight corridors enters Alnabru, much of the timber transport goes to Sweden, and the ore transport on Ofotban is very important for both Norwegian and Swedish interests. The Norwegian freight train between South Norway and Narvik runs through Sweden in transit. In addition, the NSB with its subsidiary participated in the competition for passenger train services in Sweden and has in fact won several times in competition with well-established foreign companies. So we have to remember that Norwegian train companies also have to have the same dishes when running trains in Europe, and we have to remember that this is not just about crossing national borders by train, but that Europe is now a common market for the purchase of rail products and services. This is new to us when we are going to get new trains, and when we need equipment and components for the maintenance, renewal and development of our railway. We are going to expand and modernise our signalling and securing system with the pan-European standard ERTMS. Common standards are just what are needed to strengthen the rail system, and this does not apply only to Europe. In recent years, rail transport between Asia and Europe has been multiple, and the world’s railways are screaming for more standardisation and common solutions. The fourth railway package in the EU is part of this image, and I have a hard time understanding why we shouldn't be part of this. Finally, I would like to draw up a mobility package in the road sector. The EU Commission presented new rules in the field of road transport in May 2017, e.g.: on changes to the rules on running and sleeping time, control and enhanced access to cabotage in freight transport and to the rules on the posting of workers. The government believes it is very important to ensure a level playing field in the road transport sector. The Jeleia Declaration states that the government should contribute to the orderly working conditions of the transport industry and actively work towards the liberalisation of cabotage rules. The government is busy presenting Norwegian positions on the Commission's proposals. We have involved the operators in the road transport industry in the work, and we closely follow developments in the EU system. The various proposals are now being discussed in the European Parliament and in the Council. There is a great deal of dissatisfaction between EU countries from northern and western Europe and countries from south and east Europe on how to design the new rules. Norway is part of the Road Alliance together with Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Switzerland and Sweden. Members of the Alliance are concerned that legislation on the transport industry should ensure social rights, road safety and equal conditions of competition. For Norway, cooperation in the alliance is an important possibility to influence the content of EU rules. The Ministry of Transport took an active part in the alliance, both at political level and at the level of office. Among other things, Norway organised an administrative meeting in the Oslo Alliance in September this year. It is difficult to predict when the various legal acts will be incorporated into the EEA Agreement, because the new rules must first be adopted in the EU system. The mobility package also includes proposals for road pricing, in the form of revision of the so-called Eurovignette Directive. It is challenging to combine the proposal with the Norwegian toll system. In Norway, we use tolls to invest in new infrastructure. In the EU, tolls are widely used to maintain and operate the current infrastructure. Tolls are therefore required on individual routes and in some areas, while one in the EU is more likely to charge road prices for road kilometres. The Commission's proposal to extend the scope to light driving gear is considered problematic for Norway because of our discount system for customs tariffs for frequent users. Tolls in Norway are based on local participation and acceptance, and currently discounts for private cars are much higher than the Eurovignett discount limit, 20 and 13 pst respectively. The discount is an important contribution to facilitate effective toll collection and to reduce the administrative costs of toll collection. It is also a challenge that fees or components of charges become mandatory. We are working for sufficient flexibility in EU legislation in this area, so that the Norwegian system can still be designed in line with what is useful from Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e247	I would also like to thank you for the opportunity to come and explain important EU and EEA issues in my area. Nearly one year ago, 17 November 2017, the EU Summit on Fair Working Conditions in and between European Labour Markets was held in Gothenburg. As the only non-EU country, Norway and Prime Minister Solberg attended the summit. At this meeting, a declaration on the EU social pillar was signed by the EU institutions. The objectives of the social pillar are to ensure equal opportunities and equal access to the labour market, good and fair working conditions, social protection and inclusion. These are goals that the government supports. Through the EEA Agreement, we are part of the common labour market in Europe. It is positive for the Norwegian economy. Open and functioning international markets are important for a small country such as Norway. The EEA Agreement provides us with access to the required workforce and provides Norwegian enterprises with unique access to the European market. We have a community of interests with EU countries about a well-functioning internal market. We have good examples that workers' rights have also been strengthened in Norway as a result of rules implemented in the EEA Agreement. This applies, inter alia, to: rights of employees in the event of business transfers, rules on written working arrangements, mass redundancies, the right to information and consultation and working environment rules. However, our working life rules are sometimes challenged in line with the EEA Agreement rules on freedom of movement for workers and service providers. The solution is to strengthen cooperation and to work actively to listen to important elements of our Norwegian working life model in the EU. This is why last year, at the summit, the government took an initiative against the European Commission on strengthening efforts to combat crime at work. Labour crime and unprofessional work undermine the single internal market in Europe. It is a challenge to ensure the necessary means of monitoring compliance at national and European level. In the EU initiative, the government has proposed closer cooperation with the EU and individual Member States on combating cross-border labour-life crime. We have many good experiences sharing with our European colleagues. Cooperation between the parties is central to Norwegian working life. Our experience is that challenges in enterprises and at industry level are best addressed in a constructive interaction between the employee and the employer. Tripartite cooperation between the parties and the authorities is a central foundation for the development of our employment policy. Although we may have different views on individual matters, we agree on the value of cooperating. This is what we call national, and this is what we pass on to the EU and Member States that can have different traditions and experiences. In dialogue with the EU and the Member States, we have underlined the importance of involving the parties in the policy-making process and of respecting the role of the parties in the formulation of pay and working conditions. I have put forward this point of view for EU Commissioner Marianne Thyssen, who is responsible for the field of employment and social affairs. This has also been my message during the informal ministerial meetings in which Norway is invited to attend. The Nordic Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs have also made a joint reference to the European Commission on the importance of adapting solutions to the Nordic model of cooperation, where the social partners have a different role and a greater responsibility for the whole of labour regulation than in other countries. In Norway, the parties and authorities are united in the fight against crime at work. Our experience is that broad cooperation is needed to prevent criminal actors from exploiting workers and forcing serious businesses from the markets. Labour crime is a violation of a number of laws and regulations and can only be combated through broad cooperation across the responsibilities of different agencies. There are no simple measures that alone will address the problems of labour-related crime — not in Norway and not in Europe. Many issues require cross-border action. For Norway, the EEA funds represent an important opportunity to strengthen cooperation with the authorities and the parties in the countries that send many workers here. There is now operational supervisory cooperation with the employment authorities of the Baltic countries, Bulgaria and Romania. We hope to get closer cooperation with Poland as well. In recent years, the EU has taken several new initiatives to help safeguard workers’ rights. This applies, inter alia, to: changes in legislation regulating conditions for posted workers, but also initiatives which do not involve legal changes, such as the European Platform for Cooperation on Black Work Actions. In order to strengthen orderly conditions of cross-border mobility in the internal market, the Commission presented in spring a proposal for the creation of a new labour market agency, the European Labour Authority, the ELA. Norway has expressed support for the intentions behind the initiative of such a labour market agency. At the same time, we have stressed from the Norwegian side that the new Agency must respect national authority and the autonomy of the parties. The government's preliminary assessment is that, as at present, the proposal does not involve a refusal of authority. I have asked the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice and Defence to consider this very question. Norway is actively contributing to several of the European cooperation areas proposed to become part of the new labour market agency, such as the Black Work Platform, the cooperation between the European Employment Services, EURES, and some cooperation areas related to social security coordination. The Agency shall, inter alia: provide better access to information for citizens and employers on the rights and obligations of cross-border mobility. It shall also contribute to better cooperation between the welfare institutions of each country, which shall ensure the rights of citizens. This is the purpose supported by the government. The European Commission has invited Norway to participate in a working group to advise on the establishment and future tasks of the Agency. In this context, the social partners are invited to make their contributions to the EU Commission. The parties will also be involved in further work. Employment in Norway and Europe is also changing. There is therefore a continuing need to assess whether existing legislation is in line with developments. In view of this, the European Commission has recently adopted, inter alia: promoting a proposal for a directive on clear and predictable working conditions. The background is, in particular, the development of so-called non-standard forms of employment in recent years and the unforeseeable nature of such forms of employment. Safe and predictable employment is important, and Norway already has regulation to ensure this. It is positive that the EU too focuses on such issues. While the government is in favour of much of the proposal for a directive, there is still a need to clarify the content and scope of the various elements. In this area, too, it is essential that Community legislation respects national labour market models. The government therefore follows closely the legislative process in the EU. A changing labour market offers new job opportunities. These must be open to citizens to take part, given that they do so under the rules of the labour market. The Government shares the Commission's intention to establish a fair internal market. It is good for Norway and the Nordic countries if the standard is raised in several countries. Labour mobility is important in order to ensure a good adaptation of labour supply and demand and is a central part of the internal market. However, a well-functioning internal market presupposes that the common driving rules are complied with and the rights of employees are respected. A labour market with a high level of social equality and strong involvement of social partners is also important. This is a message we have repeatedly delivered in meetings with the European Commission today. In the next year there will be elections to a new European Parliament, and a new Commission will take up the offices. Our message and our expectation of the new Commission will be the same, that it should be a driving force in order to ensure a fair internal market, with a level playing field and with respect for the rights of workers, where the different national labour models are respected. Tomorrow it is 29 years since the beginning of the fall of the Berlin Wall – a historic and important moment in many ways, which was the start of the United Europe and the fall of the Communist dictatorships. A continent that had been split for nearly 50 years was to be reunited and found together in a new reality – political, cultural, economic and social. No one thought it would be easy at the time, but most people probably believed that it was right and absolutely necessary. So let us not forget that, despite its weaknesses, European cooperation has brought Europe a good deal ahead, including in the areas of employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e298	The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the European Parliament. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e316	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e332	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e348	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e364	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e380	Today, the Financial Company Act § 13-9 second paragraph sets an absolute limit of 15 pst. for ownership interests of Norwegian life insurance and pension enterprises in non-life insurance and pension activities. The limit is proposed in this case removed in favour of a discretionary restriction on the conduct of insurance activities. The absolute limit of 15 pst. is perceived to prevent the more profitable and efficient management of pension assets. The boundary between investing in and operating insuranceforeign activities will be discretionary and will be enforced by the Financial Supervisory Authority. EEA legislation Solvency II sets common limits for all life and pension companies in the EEA area against carrying on insurance activities. By removing our extraordinary 15 p.m. ownership limit, Norwegian banks will have a regulatory framework in line with other European banks. The curious limit of 15 pst. was originally introduced into the insurance law in 1988. After that, the legislator has made significantly more stringent requirements for risk assessment and the retention of capital in financial corporations, which also include life insurance and pension corporations. Safe management of pension capital is essential. An overall financial committee would stress the importance of the ability of companies to meet their obligations towards their customers. We assume that the financial supervision in its supervisory activities will focus on that risk. It is a unanimous committee behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e391	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e407	The regulatory framework we are invited to adopt determines that non-traditional financial institutions actors will be able to provide payment authorisation services and account information services and will regulate those activities. In autumn 2015, other payment service directives, known as PSD 2, were adopted in the EU. In this case, the part of the Directive under public law becomes part of Norwegian law, in line with the EEA Agreement. The proposal amends the Financial Supervision Act, the Financial Contracts Act, the Financial Undertakings Act and the Payment System Act. These are the general rules proposed in the law. The more detailed provisions shall be laid down in the Regulation. For payment authorisation services, access to the provision of services is solved by being subject to concession requirements as for other payment undertakings. In the case of account information services, it is defined as an online service that offers to collect information from one or more of the users’ accounts. Such a service will only collect information and not enter into transactions. Such services are not regulated in Norwegian law today. The legislation we are to adopt today is to provide secure services and liability insurance and guarantee requirements are to be imposed for both types of service as a guarantee of any liability. The law requires the sharing of information and the provision of access to credit institutions' payment systems and payment account services. A Joint Committee has underlined the importance of the processing of personal data by the new payment service providers and indicates that the EU Data Protection Regulation, which entered into force in May 2018, will have an impact on the implementation of the PSD 2. In this case, the size will facilitate the benefit of new technologies to consumers through improved services, increased freedom of choice and more reasonable payment services. The Committee notes that the financial industry is in favour of the changes and is committed to the early introduction of legislation in order to achieve a common regulatory framework with the rest of the Nordic region and Europe. Financial supervision has an important role to play through its supervision of the new service providers. Access to technical solutions, payment systems and customer authentication could present challenges in a transitional phase and would require clear guidance from the authorities to allow all actors to adapt to the introduction of new legislation. In order to provide increased security for electronic payment services and thus to counteract and limit fraud, the PSD 2 requires the customer to be identified with so-called strong customer authentication. That's good. At the same time, new technical solutions are required for some economic operators, in particular business agreements with several users. The hearing bodies have stressed the need for dialogue between business and departments in the design of regulations, so as to ensure that technical solutions are in place prior to the application of regulations. Consumers are protected by the provision that any fees must be disclosed before a transaction is made and can be further regulated by a regulation. It is important that regulatory provisions be introduced in such a way that the necessary adaptations to current practices can take place in good time. Here is a unanimous committee behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e426	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e444	This is an interpellation I really wish we could be ahead of it. I wish I wouldn't stand here in the Storting and draw out a few of the far too many examples of violence, threats and discriminatory actions too many experience. I would like to relax, precisely because we initially have a good law in Norway. In the penal law, the hate crime of § 77, on aggravated circumstances, § 185, on hateful statements, § 186, on discrimination, § 264, on serious threats, § 272 e, on gross body damage, § 274 e, on gross body damage, and § 352 c, on gross damage. This shall provide those who are subjected to hate crime, a good protection whether the hate comes from skin colour, national or ethnic origin, religion, homophilic orientation or disability. Just before the summer, we in Stortinget decided that the provisions of the penal code on hateful expressions, hate crime and discrimination should be extended to include hateful expressions made, or discrimination exercised, by reason of a person's gender or gender identity. This is an important work that I am looking forward to the Minister of Justice promoting a proposal for the Stortinget. Despite the fact that the law appears to be in place to a large extent, the media have recently told of several serious cases of hate crime. These issues have focused on the social problem that this hate is actually. It deserves more attention than it has so far received, and I'm glad we can discuss it here today. Because that's exactly what I'm doing with the examples. As I said, I would like to avoid drawing these up here today, but all too often these attacks happen without us as a big community doing anything other than brooding as we scroll on to the next and more enjoyable thing. One evening in September, 33-year-old Kirsten Flakstad is on his way to his girlfriend. On the way, two strange men ask if they're boys or girls. The doctor ended up after being turned down and kicked repeatedly because of their sexual expression. TV 2 could tell this year about 22-year-old Liban Nur, who got tossed in racist shells, was knocked up and filmed by the perpetrator, who then spread the video of violence on social media and boasted of the incident. In 2016, 25-year-old Tamarin Varner was spitting on the trike in Oslo because she has cerebral parasites. This weekend, 17-year-old Håvard Skalli showed the bullet in his forehead after being at the Halloween party, to the NRK. The last words he heard before the battles, which were about his sexual orientation, do not suit the Greatness's pulpit. In Norway, people are not to be hounded, threatened or injured because of who they are, or because of a presumption of who they are. It is quick to take rights that have been won through decades of struggle, for granted. But there is an undercurrent of hate that needs to be identified and stopped. Hat crime affects too many, too often. Hate crime is, among other things, killing threats against Utøya survivors, being incited to samer in the 17th May train and anti-Siganism – hatred against Roma people. Recently, we've seen a number of hateful statements that take a lot of space in the media image. Not all of this is crime, but it might help to legitimize just the crime of hate, and it reflects many of the same attitudes. I am thinking here of everything from the criticism of the new baby of the Oslo Agency to the new rapporteur in Oslo’s Norwegianness. Sometimes this kind of expression can become a threat, and sometimes it can also become actual violence. This type of crime is totally unacceptable and must be combated. Hat crime not only affects the victim of the criminal act, but it creates uncertainty for all people who belong to the group. This is a form of crime that affects you because you are who you are, and sends a signal to everyone who belongs to a minority – that the person you are makes you a potential victim. Hat crime motivated in e.g. The victim's sexual orientation is experienced by many as an attack on all the scales. It weakens the premise that absolutely all citizens should feel safe and at home in Norway. Threats, for example, to social debaters based on their ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation are also an attack on democracy. In Norway, all shall be able to express their identity and participate in the public debate. Hat crime is an attack on the values on which we build our community: freedom, diversity, human dignity, equality and legal certainty. That's why it's especially important that we take hate crime seriously and work together to combat it. How we deal with these issues says a lot about how far we've come as a democratic society. Although the number of reviews has increased in recent years, there is still reason to believe that there are large numbers of darkness. It is a problem that too many do not report – despite the fact that the number of reported cases of hate crime again increased in 2017, to a total of 549 cases on a national basis. In the Annual Survey of the Police Directorate, 1.4 pst reported. by respondents who have been subjected to hate crime. Converting to the number of populations, this means that around 70,000 people may have been exposed to hate crime in 2017 — a significantly higher figure than the total number of reported cases. The police are even of the opinion that the dark figures of hate crime are probably significant. The police and the Minister of Justice have encouraged people to report hate crime to the police, but at the same time we see that there are very many people who do not report because the pressure of taking the step feels great, and the belief that the police are going to take the matter seriously is too small. Leader of the FRI received a threat message in March that motivated her sexual orientation. The head reported the case to the police's hate crime group in Oslo. The case was then moved to Agder police district because the perpetrator lived there. Afterwards she heard nothing before she received a letter in the mail saying the matter had been settled. She said afterward that she is unsure whether she wants to recommend others in the same situation to report, and that matters like this, where the one who is subjected to hate crime, must bear all the burden without follow-up, is not sound. When the police have no confidence, there is no doubt that something has to be done, because this is not a trust you can just pinch with your fingers and get in place. Neither are those who are subjected to hatred who are responsible here. It is the police's job to show that they are to trust, to show that those who come and report are being taken seriously. It is unacceptable that one chooses not to report hate crime to the police because they do not prioritize matters. At the same time, we see that only Oslo police districts are systematically working with hate crime. When the hatred crime group in Oslo was established, it became, among other things, justified by the police that they had to do a better screening job, and that there was a recognition that they had not worked enough with this field, as a separate group was established. More police districts should follow suit. It shall not be such that a notification in Oslo is followed up, while a notification in Finnmark is posted. In 2015, then Minister for Children, Gender and Inclusion, Solveig Horne had to answer questions from the United Nations on Norway’s action against racism, when the Committee was to examine Norway’s work against racism and discrimination. Norway has been criticised internationally for not doing enough to combat hate crime. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE, has, among other things: pointing out that the police are doing too little to identify the extent of racist-motivated violence, and the European Commission against racism and intolerance has previously concluded that there are no statistics that give a clear picture of the extent of racial discrimination. Several point to a lack of coordination across police districts as a problem. Hence my question: what will the government do to ensure that the work against hate crime is a priority task in all police districts, and that all matters are treated equally in all police districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e490	First, I would like to thank the representative of Almeland for bringing up the theme of hate crime, a challenge the government takes and has taken the most seriously. Initially, I would like to briefly recall the definition of hate crime, as used by the police today: Hat crime is a criminal offence which is fully or partly motivated by, or which has a background in, hatred or negative attitude to religion, life vision, skin color, national or ethnic origin, homophilic orientation and/or disability. Hat crime is a serious crime of integrity against groups of the population that have a specific protection in the penal code. The police director's own figures show that for the whole country, 549 cases of hate crime were reported in 2017. This is an increase of 17 pst. from the previous year. The Directorate of Police explains the increase, inter alia: the fact that police knowledge of hate crime is much greater in more police districts. They believe that this has led to good understanding of phenomena and more accurate recording of matters in the districts. The police depend on the public's confidence that matters will be reported. We believe that knowledge development in the police districts will increase the ability to report. 37 pst. of the 2017 cases were registered in the Oslo Police District, which has had its own investigation group on hate crime since September 2014. In practice, this group of Oslo police districts also advises other police districts in the investigation of such cases. Unfortunately, there is still great darkness for hate crime. The government has taken a number of measures which, on the one hand, strengthen police competence in this area and, on the other hand, strengthen people's confidence that the police will take this type of crime seriously. In 2016, the government presented a strategy and two action plans with its own action against hate crime. These are: Government strategy against hateful expressions 2016-2020 Government action plan against discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression 2017–2020 Government Anti-Semitism Action Plan 2016-2020 In addition, the government has its own action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism, which is also based on its work against hate crime. Tomorrow, the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and I will hold a round table on hate crime. We will then talk to non-governmental organisations, auxiliaries and other relevant actors about the status in the field. This is what we do, among other things. to get up-to-date knowledge of the challenge picture and input into new approaches to work. Although we have developed strategies and plans for work, we cannot lean back. We need to regularly acquire up-to-date knowledge about the problem complex and, if necessary, make adjustments on the action page. Victims of hate crime will receive equal treatment from the police, wherever in the country the incident has taken place. In its statement of objectives and priorities for criminal proceedings for several years, the National Advocate has raised the issue of hate crime as one of the types of action to be given priority in all police districts of the country, in line with other serious integrity-affecting crimes. It is the police chief's responsibility to ensure that hate crime is prioritised according to the Riksadvokat's guidelines. Fewer police districts, the establishment of Joint Criminal Procedures and a change in the local service structure will contribute to more efficient and consistent police service production. Fewer police districts help to gather resources and create stronger professional environments. The police shall have sound knowledge of how the provisions of the Criminal Code on hate crime are to be applied. Clear guidelines for recording cases have been needed. To this end, the Police Directorate has developed a guide for use in police districts to ensure uniform handling of the matter. Proper coding of matters in the police records is also necessary in order to base criminal-aggravating factors, in line with what the law requires. It is important that the police capture a possible motive for hating already in the event of a notification. All police officers must be able to recognise hate crime and to record and handle this type of crime properly. From April 2018, the marking of anti-semitism as a hate motive is implemented in the police registration system. This is one of the measures enshrined in the Government’s action plan against antisemitism. Oslo Police District has also developed its own collection of law-enforced judges on hate crime, and is also planning to develop a similar collection of examples of cases in which referrals are being made. Continued focus on legitimate responses will contribute to even better experience and to more equal treatment of such issues in police districts throughout Norway. The Police College offers a new course of further training in the prevention and investigation of hate crime from autumn onwards. The police are asking the public on their websites for tips on racist, discriminatory and hateful opinions on the Internet, and on information about websites that generate hate crime. The tipper is a 24-hour crew member at Kripos. They pass on requests to the right police district for further follow-up. For example, local police can contact people who spread hateful opinions online. This will help to strengthen police prevention efforts locally, as well as to take matters further into account in criminal proceedings. ‘Security, diversity, transparency, Government action plan against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression’ states that the government will assess ‘how gender identity and gender expression can be included in the protection of criminal law against various forms of hate crime’. In July, the Ministry of Justice and Defence sent an external inquiry into the protection of criminal law against discrimination. One proposal is to include gender identity and gender expression as a basis for discrimination, such as: trans-persons are better protected against discrimination. A central theme is the basis on which criminal law should be protected against discrimination and whether the coherence between the provisions of the criminal law and the anti-discrimination law is sufficient. Those who report anti-truth crime often need multidisciplinary assistance for their own security. Last year, twelve crime victims support centres were established, one in each police district. The system shall improve the follow-up of victims and relatives throughout the procedure and shall address, inter alia: against victims of hate crime. Hatred crime and hateful expressions not only hit the individual victim but create fear and insecurity in society as a whole. This form of crime can bring important voices to silence and thus weaken democracy. The measures described above provide the basis for people of ethnicity, religion, function or orientation other than the majority to feel confident that the police throughout the country are taking hate crime seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e539	I appreciated hearing the Minister of Justice talk here, precisely because I hear a Minister of Justice who seems to take this very seriously, who is taking this big social problem really seriously, and I think that is a good step in the right direction for us to do something about it. Recently, I have been contacted by many stakeholder organisations who have just expressed this concern that proper handling of cases of hate crime depends to a large extent on where one is located in the country – despite the fact that issues of hate crime are to be prioritised in all police districts, which I was in my first post, and which the Minister of Justice also repeated. One of the objectives of that action plan, ‘Security, diversity, transparency’ from 2017, is that issues of hate crime should be ensured equal treatment irrespective of residence. I am also aware – and pleased – of the Riksadvokat's guidelines that this should be a priority matter. At the same time, we see that it doesn't always become a priority. A supervisor, as mentioned above, was recently created for the police, which the government intends to act as a nationwide tool in registering hate crime cases correctly. However, the supervisor may not provide the staff of each district with the necessary resources or competences for the work to be done in the field. Furthermore, the government has a target of major trade unions, as we have heard, and room for specialisation in the police, but today’s actions do not ensure that all districts have the competence and resources to handle and detect hate crime. For this to be an effective tool in the fight against hate crime, many point out that there is a need for targeted specialisation and dedicated resource persons or groups in the districts, similar to the Oslo Police District scheme. I am also pleased that the Minister of Justice can report that there has been a separate further training offer. My hope is to ensure that this reaches out in all the districts, so that that competence actually also reaches out, that it not only becomes a training offer that only those particularly interested or those specifically dedicated take. Then I also have a great expectation of many of these action plans, both that they will be followed up, and not least that the new alerted action plan against racism and discrimination will also largely follow up on this. I look forward to hearing how this work will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e552	Let me start by stressing that I greatly appreciate the involvement of the representative. I think it's important to debate these matters and discuss them a lot. It's important to the police, and it's important to the public. This is a type of crime that too few decades back did not get enough attention, and on which we need to focus. I am convinced that the measures taken will produce results. I think a supervisor will produce results, and I think a study offer will produce results. I believe the Riksadvokat's constant references and priorities will produce results, and I believe that the knowledge acquired through registration will produce results, and that Oslo police districts share their knowledge. When it comes to the organisation of police districts, I have a very pragmatic and practical attitude to it. Oslo has dedicated resources to it. Oslo is a large district and it can be natural to do so. Otherwise, it's up to the police officers to organize to get the most police force out of it. After all, in the police reform, we have focused on common criminal action, which is a way of coordinating and prioritizing all issues, because it is important that there are some people who say which issues we should follow up immediately and which issues we should give priority to putting resources on. That's where the important priority against hate crime is going to be. Then you might want to look at whether some districts need dedicating, but I don't want to say that it's given that that's what's right. It may even be that it would be more natural to add even more resources and knowledge to Kripos or to a national prosecution unit. In other words, there are different ways of ensuring that knowledge is preserved, because we are still in a situation where we build up knowledge and are to disseminate this knowledge to policemen outside the country. But I'm taking this recording with me. Initially, police reform is determined by common criminal action, but there may be a need for both centralised solutions and specialisations in rural areas. But as I said, we're focusing on this, and as early as tomorrow, I'm going to sit down with the Minister of the Child to get even more new recordings from the organizations and those who are working on this. This is because the Minister for Children and Gender Equality is also Minister for Discrimination and is responsible for avoiding it in Norway. It illustrates another important point, that this is not just a police matter. This is also a matter that concerns wider sections of society, many parts of society, working life, public debate, the press and the media, but it also concerns the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e563	A Saturday at Tøenen is a woman with hijab on her way home from the store. Out of the blue she hears a lady yelling – I have to apologize in advance for the use of words, President – ‘fucking Negro whore’. Immediately afterwards the lady goes to attack her. This is one example. The representative Almeland came up with another example, which I was also going to take up, which was about Tamarin in 25 years who was on the trick. As mentioned, she has cerebral paresis, a disability that makes her unable to control all the movements of her body, and which makes her limp a little when she goes. She's used to looking, but this time there was a boy who got up, went to her and spit on her. When Tamarin went to the police to report the case, she was told that she was the first to report hate crime on the basis of disability. This wasn't long ago. The National Attorney has, as said here, hate crime as one of his priorities. Nevertheless, there is only one department in the Oslo unit east that works specialised in hate crime. That's not good enough. The Minister referred to a counsellor. It's fine with supervisors, but the most important thing is that something happens out there. When hate crime is a priority area, it must be an objective to increase the level of competence in all police districts and to ensure dedicated resources to prioritize the area. Today, districts’ empowerment appears to be arbitrary and voluntary. SV has proposed that the government set up dedicated groups in different police districts to work against hate crime and with the aim of covering the whole country – groups to have special competence in the field, work systematically against hate crime, increase the competence of all police personnel in their districts and report on what is being done. SV has also proposed the establishment of a national unit with coordination and professional responsibility for hate crime. What I'm asking is whether this is something the minister can support?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e572	Tomorrow it is 80 years since the persecution of Jews in Germany was seriously escalated, with the crystal night. 1,400 synagogues were burned down, and over 7,500 stores were vandalized. In addition, 91 Jews were killed and about 30,000 Jews were led to concentration camps. Today, 80 years later, Nazis march again in our streets. The neo-Nazi organization called the Nordic Resistance Movement is recruiting in Norway, with messages of hatred, division and violence. The goal is Jews, crooks, immigrants, the left side and the media, to name someone. Just that draws a very dark and serious sky over this interpellation debate, because people feel a very real fear. In my home country, the Nazis have actions every month. They have markings in our pedestrian streets. They tried to block a election room in Sarpsborg on election day last year, and wherever you go, we see stickers and posters with hate messages from this group. Recently, they have hung stickers where we can see pictures of hedgehogs from lampposts with the inscription ‘reserved for traitors’ – reserved for traitors. The members of the organisation have committed violence, the ultimate consequence of hate crime, including fatal results in other countries. This is one of the organized spearheads of hate crime in Norway, an example of hate crime and how far it can go, and one of the drivers of some of the worst attitudes. In 2017, 549 cases of hate crime were reported on a national basis, and there is an increase of almost 18 p.p. from the previous year. That's why I'm very pleased with this interpellation. I am also pleased that SV has previously made proposals that are now under consideration, with measures against hate crime. Because it is clear that there is not enough work to combat hate crime throughout the country, when today we only have a dedicated group to do this in Oslo and the emergence of organized neo-Nazis has been allowed. It underlines that more needs to be done. Therefore, SV proposes to set up dedicated groups in several police districts to work against national hate crime and to set up a national unit with coordination and professional responsibility for hate crime. This is about taking people's fear seriously. It's about the extreme remarks we see in the comment field. It's about the events we've already been referred to from this pulpit. It's about heat, and it's all about what I've been talking about today: organized groups around a violent hate message. We have to take that seriously. We have to show that society is going to stand up for those who are hit by hate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e585	First, thank the representative, Mr Almeland, for this important interpellation. The theme of hate crime must affect us all, because hate crime is the source of racism, discrimination, phobia against lesbians, homosexuals, transpersonals – people who are defined not to belong to the normal. I was recently on a trip in Poland, and in Krakow I stumbled almost over a demonstration of secondary groups that were carefully planned. The demonstration had the clear message that gays and transpersons were not wanted in the country. These are secondary groups that are not only in Poland but are also growing in other European countries. They organize and are on training camps. I'm pretty sure other types of crime are in the wake of these groups, and that should worry us. I understand that concerns our Minister of Justice. Since this has been going on for a while, the Council of Europe has already addressed hate crime, and since 2013, what they call ‘No Hate Speech Movement’, and has taken several initiatives to make campaigns, especially among young people, precisely in order to prevent hateful expressions. We may need a campaign in Norway to get a sense of both the criminality and the absence of it. I think it's worrying. Although the police now have better methods and higher skills to monitor and detect hateful statements, I suspect that it may be just the top of the iceberg you get revealed. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice points out that we are going to take this very seriously. It is important for us that there is equal practice throughout the country, that there is no difference between this in either detection or trial in the court. I think the police have to put the effort into prevention. This concerns police visits to schools where drug and alcohol abuse is a high priority. I think hate crime against groups is incredibly important to come up with. Thank you again to the representative who raised this topic. I'm sure we're going to continue working on that, and I'm excited about how the Minister of Justice will follow up questions and initiatives taken here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e600	I would like to start by giving praise to the representative Almeland to address this interpellation on an important topic. I am also pleased to hear that the Minister of Justice takes this very seriously. We live at a time when more and more of our everyday lives are moving across the Internet, and where social media with all the amazing things it brings, is also an arena for both serious and less serious hot and bullying – whether it's bullying among schoolchildren, or what we've seen in the last few days, where a city council from the Environmental Party of the Greens in Oslo, which I myself have argued a lot about when it comes to politics, is hottered when she comes with a good news that she's waiting for a child and writing this on social media. We live at a time how much of what we don't like comes out on social media and on the Internet, while this may have been more hidden in the past. I had, I think it was in 2014 or 2015, the joy of being with the Prime Minister as her State Secretary to the Mosaic Religious Society in Oslo, where unfortunately we heard from the leader there that terms such as both ‘hore’, ‘homo’ and ‘Jew’ are still among the most used shells in schoolyards in Oslo. To me, it was a wake-up alarm. I am pleased that the government, as well as the Municipality of Oslo and many other public bodies around the country, have different strategies, whether it is the government's action plan against antisemitism, it is strategies against hateful expressions, or it is an action plan against violent extremism – it is perhaps the most serious on the scale of that kind of heat and it can bring with it. We know from elsewhere in Europe that, for example: Jewish children dare not say at school that they are Jews. Muslimism, especially online, is an increasing phenomenon. This is sad because strong political debate is both important and good for democracy. But when it moves into hot and hateful statements, it's something we humans simply cannot accept. I am also very pleased that political Norway is united that we should not accept this, this is not about party boundaries, but about how we want our political debate and propriety between people to be in our society. I would once again like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important issue, and I am pleased that the government has several strategies to follow up. But this work is probably not over with the first – here we must all be alert and continuously take our part in the work ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e613	One of the most difficult things to do with writing this interpellation and figuring out what to say was not that there was a lack of examples to draw out or things to bring up, but it was simply to figure out which examples I could draw out, because there are so many horrible ones that are not suitable to draw out on the pulpit of the Great Government. For all of us in this room must acknowledge that we have not done enough in the past – none of us have done enough with this in the past. That is why we have to look forward, and I am glad that the Minister of Justice is warning that he is at the ball here. There are some special challenges in our time as well. When you are exposed to so much hatred in social media and on the Internet, it creates a different reality for those who have these hateful thoughts, and you get much more than before confirmation of these thoughts. When films with tutorials are broadcast, i.e. training on how to re-paste the mouth of people who look like they're gay, or glue other body openings, it really shakes me, even when it's broadcast movies that encourage people to commit gross violence against people they think are different. In the last video we've seen a film where a young boy, fortunately not in Norway, is dying on the ground with the comment: This was the right thing to do. It is also sent around in Norwegian environments. These are examples that are so cruel that it really, really is in place that we all realize that this is something we have to work with in the future. I am pleased with many of the signals the Minister of Justice sends here today. I'm also glad he's signaling that he's going to look at this with the organization, because there's clearly more models and more ways to do it. The important thing for me is that we make sure that the competence is there, because there are priority issues today, but there is not enough competence out there, so we need to find good ways to make sure that the competence comes out. We also have to recognise that the term ‘hat crime’ is greater than many people may have in their consciousness. Because it's about gay people, who have been mentioned a lot today, but it's also about disability – it's about an incredible number of groups that are very easily forgotten in this kind of debate. I'm looking forward to continuing this discussion. This interpellation I hope was just a small start.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e624	I will again be allowed to thank the inter-pellant and the other participants in this debate. I think it was very good and not least thought-provoking posts from everyone. I think we can all admit two things. One is that we need more knowledge about this – both we, the police and public Norway – but we can also be clearer about attitudes. When it comes to attitudes, I think you can take it more seriously when it comes up. I think that applies to the police, but it also applies to all of us who personally participate in the public debate. We need to be clear, show attitudes when it comes to unacceptable statements – even if they are not criminals, I think it's a point to show the opinions. As far as police work is concerned, this is a priority. There is also reason to remember that we are in the midst of a police reform. The majority has been dealing with police reform a while ago; the police are in the process of reforming it now. Most decisions on the latest organisational changes will be put in place in 2018. I'm still a little restrained by detailing the police. There are a lot of people who want to draw an organisational chart for the police, where there's something to say either about a particular effort against a type of crime, about a geographical location, or about where it's going to be a janitor's office. I think we're going to let this reform go, and then we have to try to let the police officers organize their work as much as possible. This does not mean that they should be without political attention or political pressure. We have tools through the dialogues with the Police Directorate and the Riksadvokat's writing, where we say what to prioritize. I don't have any strong thoughts about how to draw an organisation chart or an organization box out at the police department. The most important thing is that it works. As far as this type of crime is concerned, I think it is very important that all the police, all the police patrols and all the prosecutors are obsessive about it, clear about it, understand it and recognize it when it happens – that you are not so special that it gets away. This is something that the new detection shows, namely that there may have been some crime out there, which you may not have thought of as a hate crime. That means you don't get with the criminal-aggravating element that's supposed to be on the ground. For example, when you have: It must be punishable if it is hate crime. It's important that everyone recognizes it. I also agree with the representative that the Internet is not a legal zone. It's not that because we've got the Internet, it's free to do what you want there. The Internet should also be subject to the same rules and laws that apply to the rest of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e640	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is going to be equal to-- so 8 is going to be equal to-- 8 is
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e652	Then it seems that the Storting is ready to go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e688	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e698	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e707	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e863	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e873	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e926	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e936	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e1211	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e1221	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-08.ana.ud274e1253	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
