ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e28	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad shall apply for parental leave from 16 January to 22 March. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the goods, Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It is also considered to be adopted. The representative Per Espen Stoknes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e47	I would like to propose a circular economy as the main solution for the management of hazardous inorganic waste in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e52	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e68	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Vidar Helgesen, Frank Bakke-Jensen and Terje Søviknes will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The first main question is from the representative Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e77	The question goes to the State Council Helgesen. Today, we have a national target to manage hazardous waste properly – either for recycling or for ensuring a good national treatment capacity. Today, the NOAH Lang Island manages a significant proportion of the hazardous waste from the Norwegian industry and will do so until 2022. The Environment Directorate has investigated current sites in Norway that are suitable for setting up a new hazardous waste landfill, and the two remaining projects are Raudsand and Brevik. Although such a landfill can contribute to workplaces in the municipalities concerned, those living in Nesset, Sunndal and Tingvoll are concerned about a possible landfill of hazardous waste on Raudsand. They in Porcelain Grounds are concerned about a possible landfill of hazardous waste in Brevik. The background to the concerns surrounding Red Sand has, among other things, whether there is a high risk of leakage to groundwater and of explosion, and critical in view of the reputation of marine farm-related installations located in the fjord outside. In the Red sand, there is a great distance to settlement, while in Brevik, there is almost talk of living on top of the landfill that is planned there. In the election campaign, State Council Sylvi Listhaug confirmed that the new landfill should not be at Nesset, while the responsible State Council has not decided where the new landfill should be yet. Can State Council Helgesen confirm whether we're still left with two real alternatives? And can the Council of State reassure the inhabitants of the two municipalities concerned about their concerns – that the local environment will be safe for pollution, even if they have a landfill for hazardous waste in their neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e88	It is important to ensure storage capacity for hazardous waste in Norway and the existing landfill for hazardous waste in Lang Island in Westfold will be full in a few years. Because this is an important question, and because Norway has a responsibility both nationally and internationally for having such a sound treatment capacity, it is also important that we have a good process around it. There are two places that are up to date. In the Nesset municipality, Bergmesteren Raudsand AS has prepared an impact assessment of a potential landfill for hazardous waste. The municipality has not yet dealt with the impact assessment. We have noted the discussion in Nesset, while also having a process linked to Brevik, where the municipality – unlike the Nesset municipality in Møre and Romesdal – has not itself wanted it to be established a landfill, but where the Environment Directorate has pointed to Norcem mines in Brevik as a very good alternative. Therefore, the Ministry of Climate and Environment has been appointed as the responsible authority for a planning programme for a potential landfill. Both of these processes go on. Today there is a people's meeting in Brevik about the plan programme. The impact studies for both sites will be thoroughly addressed when available. As of today, we stress that we need to have a strengthened knowledge base, both on Nesset and on Brevik, before a decision on the further course is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e95	I asked two questions. One thing I was told, but the other – whether it will be safe, whether it will be felt safe, or whether there will actually be professional reasons for getting a safe deposit for hazardous waste in the neighborhood – is important to get answers. The size is now going to deal with a big message about waste and the circular economy, and I am very happy about that. This is an important topic to address, but we also see that in that staging message there are two and a half or three lines about hazardous waste – a theme I think there are very many who are concerned about, and that affects those who get it close to themselves. That's why it's important to clarify what kind of policy we're going to have for the future. That's about. 1 500 tonnes of hazardous waste from the Norwegian industry today. One-fourth of what's being deposited is imported. Can the State Councils respond if this will be safe? And will circular economy become a topic of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e104	I grew up in Westfold, and I remember very well all the rounds that were about the property on Lang Island when it was established, and all the scepticism, among other things. from environmental organisations, related to it. Last year I was on Langøya when part of the area was returned as an open-air area. I heard the local representative from the Federation of Nature Conservation, who had objected to this in the 1980s, who was now full of praise for how this deposit had been managed, both in terms of dialogue with the community, professionalism and all the efforts that had been put in place to ensure that this would be safe. So we have very good experience from Langøya that this is safe, and that there is great local acceptance for the landfill there and the way this has been handled. It gives me great confidence that security will be ensured. And then the circular economy will be part of the assessments that companies are making in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e109	There will be follow-up questions – first Espen Barth Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e114	It is a follow-up to the question of the landfill of hazardous waste, in the extension of what my colleague, the representative Else-May Botten, asked for. It is good to hear that the Council of State is safe in the process, but I have been able to see for myself that this security is not yet present in the communities concerned. What does the Council of State think to do to ensure a good process and dialogue with those involved, which is not only about the location, but also a discussion about further processing in a circular economic context, so as to reduce the amount of hazardous waste that eventually has to be landfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e121	We have a good dialogue with the City of Nesset, which has taken its own initiative. In the case of Porsgrön, the municipality itself has not wanted a landfill, but we have had more meetings with them than we have with the Nesset municipality. We have sent proposals for a plan for possible landfill in Brevik at the hearing on 13 December. Today there is a public meeting in Porsground about this in order to contribute to dialogue about it. We will consider the input from the consultation on the establishment of the programme. It's important. As far as the circular economy is concerned, we know that the NOAH, which is the economic operator here, has seen great new opportunities in the circular economy. That means that in the future we'll be able to see that it's going to be less waste. But we know that something has to be deposited anyway. These include: some substances that we don't want to recover because we want them out of the system, and that's why we need to have a landfill.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e128	Sandra Borch - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e133	Measures that strengthen demand for recycled materials are a key to creating the circular economy. It sets out both the government's waste notification and the green competitiveness strategy. Last year, the Environment Council of the Norwegian EU Delegation reported that the EU's forthcoming plastic strategy recommends economic incentives to promote increased use of recycled plastics. This is necessary in order to convert into a more sustainable use of plastics. There are currently no mechanisms that contribute to the use of plastics in the most climate- and resource-efficient way possible. It's about securing a material a long life through high-quality use and recovery. My question is: Will the Council assess a material charge that promotes the use of recycled material in plastics?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e141	In the plastic field, there are many measures to be considered related to increased attention being paid to the plastic problem. We know more about the plastic problem, and we therefore take action in different areas. The question of the material charge has been raised in different contexts, but it is complicated. These include: Complicated in designing such a charge in a precise way, but we stress that we need systems to ensure the maximum possible recycling of plastics. The representative referred to the EU plastic strategy. That's what we're expecting next week, and it's going to be an important basis for us in the future because it's a European market we're operating in. At the same time, we also see that Norway has some solutions, such as: the mortgage scheme, which other countries see as a means of stimulating more plastic recycling.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e146	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e151	The Council of State knows that, but I can reveal to the House that it was not for once I who was the representative of the Association for the Protection of Nature that had linked itself to the Special Waste Camp in Lang Island in the 1980s. I would like to ask the Council of State what new measures the government will take to reduce the amount of special waste that needs to be handled and treated properly, including here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e158	First of all, it is the responsibility of public authorities to ensure that we regulate and/or charge dangerous substances. Then it's the business actors who, together with research environments and development environments, help to get the solutions for this. Here we see that a lot happens. It was recently found that only the sink in the flybag has a commercial value of 80 million. kr. So here's a rippling development. We are very positive about this development, because it can help reduce the amount of hazardous waste that needs to be landfilled, and because it can bring more economy into waste management and contribute to new jobs. We equally know that something will have to be deposited. Something we don't want to recycle because it's toxins, and that's why we have to take our responsibility for having such a capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e165	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e170	In the previous ageing period, under the management of, inter alia, Ola Elvestuen, asked Stortinget Ministry of the Environment to draw up a report on new waste policy. The background was precisely the EU's plans for a new circular economy, and waste should be considered as a resource to be recovered as much as possible locally. Less use and waste and more recycling can create up to 100000 new jobs in the new industry in Europe by 2030, and waste tourism with shipments of waste between countries should be reduced. My question to the Council of State is: How have the Council of State and the Government planned to further address this issue, not least for the sake of the security of the local population?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e175	We're going to make sure that at all times we have the regulations and charging mechanisms that are needed to minimise the amount of waste, to ensure that as much of what can be recycled, recovered and made new economic activity by, is being subjected to it. In this picture, we are now working on the policy that is being developed in the EU, as this is a European market. We have the circular economy message, or the waste notification, for treatment in the Storting, but also there we attach great importance to the fact that this is a European process, and the legislation that comes in Europe will be of great importance to us. That is why we are following it closely, and we are going to have close dialogue with the EU on their circular economy design. It's too early now to say what that concrete will mean, but that's where we put the resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e180	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e185	Cora, Ylva and the flood of the South in the summer show clearly that climate change is taking place. Climate change belongs specifically to the Ministry of Climate and Environment, while climate change impacts are more fragmented. As a society, of course, we need to do what we can to achieve the climate goals, but we also need to set ourselves up to minimise the damage that extreme situations do to societies, businesses and individuals. Both in the persuasion debate and in the budget debate, the central party challenged the government's need for increased investment in slip and flood protection and prevention. In addition to carrying out good land-use planning and flood and scirconance monitoring, we also need to work specifically to secure the areas where we already have population, and to tackle the most effective measures based on a risk assessment and a cost-benefit assessment. The NVE has its priority lists, and they now add up to the net sum of 2.5 billion. kr. Extreme weather also provides more water, and it was pointed out by the government as a major challenge that had to be solved quickly, as the reduced flood sample in 2014. The committee's investigation was ready in 2015 and, in our view, contained many good suggestions. Unfortunately, later those proposals to be in a drawer. The river in Sørland was a strong reminder of the needs of the municipal sector in terms of safe and good flood management, but we cannot see that the municipalities have received new, concrete tools in their toolbox. My question then goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy as a specialist for the NVE. When can we expect the government to take the proposals from the sample of the self-reduced, seriously and make concrete proposals for better flood management?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e196	The flow and pace challenge is great, as the representative describes, and we have had some reminders of it in 2017. We have to be prepared, and we ensure that – as it was outlined here – in different ways, primarily by avoiding building ourselves into new slippery and flooded areas through good spatial planning in the municipalities, where the NVE also contributes with its knowledge and ensures that there is a factual basis at the bottom. Secondly, there is the monitoring of the areas that are being developed, existing settlements that may be flooded and scrambled, and there are systematic efforts to implement measures according to the lists referred to here. In the case of the flood problem, the government will return to Stortinget with the follow-up to the work that has been done. It is also a subject that lies under the Ministry of Climate and Environment, at the Helgesen Council of State. But we work well on this, and we see that the problem of flooding is an extremely important part to address, not least in urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e206	It's important to avoid building into new problems, but we already have existing settlements. The Council of State stated on Dagsnytt eighteen, following the large flood in the South, that the government would follow up on the other statements and recommendations presented by the overwater committee in its 2015 investigation. The committee proposed several legislative changes, which will better facilitate important prevention efforts to tackle high levels of rainfall. Among other things, it is recommended to strengthen existing State sector responsibility for overwater, and we now see that it is somewhat fragmented. In comparison with the situation in the autumn of 2017, has the government taken measures to reduce the adverse effects of flooding and migration, and what action is there, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e216	Through the NVE, we also work on the surface problem. It is part of the work done in urban areas, where the NVE advises municipalities in this respect as well. However, in new development projects, it is primarily the developer, in consultation with its consultants, who makes plans for overwater management, which is then part of the spatial planning of each municipality. With regard to existing areas, the main responsibility for managing this remains with the NVE's technical assistance. Then the government will come back with an overall follow-up to the overwater sample setting. It is too early to conclude on what measures we would recommend the Storting to address, and what measures we would like to say no to. But a total review of this will come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e223	There will be follow-up questions – first Sandra Borch.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e228	With more extreme violence, the disagreement about the responsibility for damage must be resolved more fully by the courts. It is both costly, complex and resource-efficient for municipalities, citizens and courts. In Norway, water and sewerage services are only partially regulated by different legislation and it is left to each municipality to supplement the legislation. The centre party has repeatedly pointed out that Norway needs more comprehensive legislation for municipal water and sewerage services. In June last year, the Stortinget decided that the government would return to the Stortinget with proposals for measures and instruments for the overwater problem, including an assessment of a separate sectoral law on water and sewerage. My question is: When will the Council start work on setting up a sectoral law on water and sewerage services?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e235	First, I must stress again that the question of follow-up to the overwater committee is under another department and under the state council of Helgesen, but we are working on follow-up here. No decision has yet been taken on when and whether to recommend a separate sectoral law relating to water and sewerage. It's part of the problem. Overwater is not sought into the sewerage network because it contributes to increased costs and challenges of sewage treatment, which is the main purpose of the sewerage network. One really wants the flood to be managed in its own systems, and in open systems – that in urban areas it simply helps to be able to re-excavate streams and streams of water, and in large rainfalls can lead the water to the sea in that way. We will therefore come back to Stortinget with this, and no decision has yet been taken on when – or whether – a separate sectoral law will be proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e244	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e249	In December 2016, the NVE presented a report that showed a clear need for a strong increase in efforts to tackle more floods and progress in the future. The council said the same thing in the meeting with those who were injured during the flood of South Africa last autumn. The week after the Council of State had been in South Africa and underlined the need for increased efforts, he was with and put forward a government budget where there was great cut in the appropriations for the efforts against the floods and escapes. My question is: When and how will the government follow the recommendations of the NVE and the promises given to the population in the autumn of 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e256	The question of flood and tailoring appropriations is part of the ordinary budgetary processes and is assessed in each budget. Over the four-year period we have behind us, the last growing-up period, the government – and the Stortinget followed up through appropriations – proposed a total of twice as much for flood protection and scaffolding as in the previous four years under the red-green parties. So it's been heavily invested, and it's going to be heavily invested in the continuation. In the 2018 budget, the government chose to take out the specific crisis packages related to the decline in oil prices in the South and West. This also took out an allocation linked to the flood and the escape. So the budget negotiations in this house have contributed to the addition of another 100 million. kr. The total for 2018 is now 354 million. SEK for flood and slip protection in 2018. It's a significant amount. And it takes time for the NVE and the municipalities to develop projects and implement them physically, so it's a gradual escalation, in line with the needs that NVE has notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e263	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e268	The question of climate change is, of course, about floods and migrations, but here everything is circularly linked, and my question then goes to the climate minister: after all, we have to achieve our climate goals, it is absolutely vital for humanity, for plant life, for animal life, and the question in our daytime that is most important of all, is just how we get down the global emissions in order to take care of the planet's well and well. We in the Left believe that we need to achieve our climate goals both globally and at home, and here at home we – and we should – have all the emissions cut in Norway by 2030, and then the greens are changed very important. But it is also about environmentally friendly cars, green shipping, rail, public transport, and we need to look at cooperation between fisheries, agriculture, business – and not least at CCS. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree that we should take all our emission cuts, including here at home, by 2030, and be able to achieve our climate goals, even globally, at the rate we have set ourselves now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e275	The President will point out that it is okay to stick to the main issue, but the Council of State is of course to be answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e280	We have – not least with the Left – a very offensive climate policy. We have, in terms of the climate targets for 2020, brought us far closer to achieving the targets for domestic emission reductions as well as what we had when we took over. In the last ten years, emissions in Norway have decreased by 6.2 pst. since the top in 2007. We have presented a climate communication with a climate strategy towards 2030 which shows that we have good opportunities to achieve the 2030 targets, mainly through domestic action. It is not least through the offensive measures we have in the transport sector. We do not exclude the use of market mechanisms to achieve the 2030 targets, it adds up EU legislation, and now, when the EU has completed its 2030 climate package, we are doing calculations in more detail on what the consequences for Norway will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e288	Tore Storehaug – to the next and last follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e293	I would like to continue to ask the Søvik government council questions. Racial and Flemish protection is getting more attention, and it is important. But it's also about more than just money. No matter how much we manage to deal with the climate change that is currently taking place, we've actually come so far that we're forced to do climate change adaptation. The councils have answered their questions that here the municipalities have an important task, and he is quite right in that. We also see in several cases in the last year that the municipalities have ended up in a situation where one has approved and granted permission to build houses in places where one has later ended up in a difficult situation because it has been damaged by these houses after extreme weather. This is something that you have to meet with better follow-up of the municipalities that are there and that have an important role to play in planning. There is no national centre that is driving this development of competence except the NVE today. Does the Council of State think that there will be a way of lifting this cross-sectorally?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e304	It is quite right that the knowledge of flood protection and tailoring, flood prevention and tailoring, as well as adaptation work, is essential for us to succeed in this work. Therefore, the NVE has so far worked to strengthen the competence of the municipalities, but also towards the main consultants. We have to remember that this country still – despite municipal reform – consists of relatively many small municipalities with limited administration, where this will be a specialised area with no possibility of having very many employees or large resources associated with it. This is why it is important to strengthen the consultancy industry and to help their professional environment build expertise in flood and tailoring and flood prevention, not least in a transitional problem. A national centre, a training institution in this field, may be one measure that needs to be assessed in further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e311	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e316	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The ice melts, the sea rises, and along the coast of Trøndelag and in Northernland we experienced extreme weather last weekend. If we are to avoid the worst climate change, a large part of fossil energy resources must remain on the ground. Since the country takes most of the economic risks of oil and gas expansion, oil dependence is no longer just a problem for the climate. Last autumn, it was found that the Goliath field had gone from a marginal profitability to a marginally unprofitable assessment by the Oil Directorate in 2015. After several rounds with the State Council, it is still not clear whether the state of Norway will make or lose money on Goliath. Before Christmas, the Council of State had handed over the plan for the development and operation of the Johan Castberg field. Development will increase Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. The government's own experts in the Environment Directorate have criticised Statoil's profitability assessments by Johan Castberg. In the consultation opinion, the Environment Directorate points out that rapid development of zero-emission technologies and tighter global climate policies increase the uncertainty about the profitability of the project. Will the Council of State ensure that, in the context of Johan Castberg development, assessments are made of the profitability which requires the world to actually achieve its climate objectives, as recommended by the Environment Directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e327	We can leave Goliath lying – although it was tempting to go into that question too. In the case of Johan Castberg, this case will be promoted to Stortinget in the ordinary way, it's an extension of over 20 billion. NOK 49 billion. Total kr. Assessing the sensitivity to the profitability of the project is part of the basis that has now been provided to us through development and operation plans and that will be passed on to Stortinget. This means assessing the sensitivity of the profitability of future oil prices, which will once again be related to what can be defined as climate risk, given the success of the international quota system to tighten up: fewer allowances, higher CO 2 emission prices and thus higher project costs — and probably lower fossil product prices. This is already part of the company's assessments. It's important to be clear about the division of roles that we have on the Norwegian base, where the companies that sit tight are the ones that evaluate the economy and develop the concrete projects. Then, as the authority, we take a position on the approval of each extension project – and for Johan Castberg’s part, it will be a great deal of treatment because the project is so large. Climate risk is taken into account and will be part of the picture that the Storting will present.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e339	I thank you for the answer, but I'm not calmed down, because here there's a great deal of trust in the capture of the companies, and we've seen in the Goliath case what happens when you have an excessive trust in the oil companies in that way. After all, it was the Environment Directorate, the government's own professionals, who criticised Statoil's investigations for being deficient. It wasn't just the economic investigations they criticized. They also criticised the environmental investigations for their inadequacy. I have to repeat the question: will the Council of State ensure that thorough economic assessments are made in line with the recommendations of the government's own professional bodies? And a supplementary question: will the Council of State ensure that the environmental aspects too are properly investigated, as recommended by the Environment Directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e348	When it comes to economic issues and the division of labour on the Norwegian base, I think it is too easy to say that we have placed too much responsibility on the companies. No one is better able to assess the economy in concrete projects and the risks associated with climate issues than the companies themselves and the capital market to help finance the projects. We're going to make our assessments, independent as authority, and we're going to make sure that the Stortinget gets a broad and good basis for deciding on the Johan Castberg extension. I would also like to stress – when looking into the future and assessing the different scenarios for the world's energy mix – that last autumn, the International Energy Agency came with its World Energy Outlook 2017, stating that even in a 2-degree scenario, there is a great need for oil and not least gas in the decades to come. Oil consumption will be slightly lower if you reach the 2-degree target, but not significantly lower than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e355	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kari Elisabeth Kaski.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e360	In the government's profitability calculation for Goliath, the calculations show that the present value before and after tax is not the same. It necessarily means that the tax system is not neutral, and this is confirmed in a response from the Council of State to the undersigned on a written question. The tax system is then such that something that is unprofitable for the state can be profitable for the builders. Then my question is to the Council of State: why does the Council of State believe that the state in the time of climate change and climate risk should take greater risks than the builders when expanding oil and gas fields on Norwegian soil?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e367	The pre- and post-tax profitability question will depend on the discount rates used in the calculations. That's what the representative Kaski knows about. When we present a new development project, profitability calculations, profitability analyses are made, because at the time it makes sense to know what profitability, what return, you can get on invested capital, because you're faced with a decision. It is therefore important that this basis lies in any development plan that comes to us in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and in any major extension case that comes to the Stortinget. Then there is a discount rate of 7 pst. The starting point, and that's about where you'll be before and after tax. When you show a positive return, a positive present value, at 7 pst. discount rate is an expression that both the company and the state will make money on the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e375	Hege Haukeland Liadal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e380	State Council Søviknes told Stortinget that his department had not done its own calculations of the profitability of Goliath. But the numbers were always available in the Oil Directorate. It confirmed the OD to Dagbladet on 14 November 2017. My question is: how is the dialogue between the State Council and the Oil Directorate really?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e385	That dialogue is good and close and is happening all the time. When it comes to Goliath and the internal profitability assessment carried out by the Oil Directorate in 2015, there was a note that they prepared and that was not the basis for transmitting the Ministry of Oil and Energy. It was part of their work to follow up the extractive licence associated with Goliath. It's a work that the Oil Directorate is doing on an ongoing basis to each licence on a Norwegian base. But the Ministry of Oil and Energy did not have a decision at the time relating to the Goliath field and did not need to pick up that note. It was sent to us after the discussion of profitability at Goliath came up here in Stortinget. What we're doing is making sure that there's a good basis for decision making. It is not the intention of the Ministry of Oil and Energy to conduct on-going profitability assessments of 85 fields in operation on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e390	Tore Storehaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e395	There is every reason to ask some questions about the role of government in what are peer reviews, as is being done here, when we in the Stortningen are going to make decisions. So we in the Barents Sea have had a lot of pretty big exceedances, both the Goliath field and also Martin Linge, where one now gets notice that it's part of the same problem, including. quite large overruns due to repairs to electrical installations. Both are projects that have been added abroad, while the Norwegian supplier industry has been assigned to clean up what has been a rather demanding starting point. My question then is how the Council of State ensures that the companies are responsible for controlling the cost picture when projects are added abroad. Then I remind you that these are builders where the depreciation rules are not enough for us, as the public, to go in some cases with quite large amounts that we could otherwise have used in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e402	Let me first underline that the main gravity of development projects on a Norwegian base delivers at the cost of what has been provided in the development and operation plan, or the uncertainty room given there. Then there are some examples of higher cost excesses and not least delays, which are also a cost to both the oil companies and the community. We have been clear that we need to work extra well on the part of the authorities to ensure that the community – i.e. the community of interests linked to each exploitation concession and thus each development project – works well together. Therefore, during 2017, by amending the guidance on plans for the development and operation of new projects, we have strengthened the so-called bag responsibility, which means that, in addition to the operator responsible for the development, the other companies must also have a much stronger impact and report independently to the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e407	Per Espen Stoknes – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e412	Company on the base does not have the possibility to enter into contractual obligations until Stortinget has approved the PUD, plan of expansion and operation. However, the Ministry of Oil and Energy may agree to conclude contracts before the Storting has dealt with the matter, if it would cause significant disadvantage for the company not to do so. This has now become a standard practice, almost automatic practice, for development projects on a Norwegian base, the rule more than the exception, as now in December with Johan Castberg. My question is: what do the Council of State think if the Storting actually uses the powers they have to change the PUD in several cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e417	On the Norwegian base, we are currently working well, both in the oil and gas companies and in cooperation with the supplier industry, to reduce costs and ensure that we get a profitable development project in the future. New projects have now been delivered to us with a cost of both 40 and 50 pst. lower than what you saw just three years ago. Johan Castberg is an example of what you've gone from 100 billion. DKK in development costs to reach 49 billion. kr for the submission of the PUD. Some of the basis for this cost reduction lies in very close and close cooperation between oil companies and suppliers. New cooperation models are being introduced, and oil and gas companies want to test the market early to see whether the solutions that have matured are at the cost level they want, thereby ensuring greater security for the cost estimates in the development and operation plans. That model is good, and it helps us realize the project faster and at a lower cost than we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e422	The Council of State is not responding.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e427	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e433	A year ago, the problem of plastic in the sea was really put on the agenda when a whale with a stomach full of plastic was found dead on Sotra. A few days ago, a dolphin, which is a rare animal in our waters, was found dead in the spring of the Oslo Earth. It had plastic in front of its mouth, around one loofah and around its back fin and lay on a beach that was heavily ensnared. In fact, in the case of plastic in the sea, ten rivers represent 90 pst. of all plastics in the sea. In December, the newspaper reported a study showing that eight of the rivers transporting plastic into the sea are in Asia. 90 pst. So all of the plastic in the ocean is going to get there through these ten rivers. This is the conclusion of the study published in the journal Environmental Science & Technology. Two of the ten rivers in charge are Nile and Niger in Africa. The other eight, in Asia, are the Yangtze River, the Mekong River, the Indus, the Ganges, the Gul River, the Hai He, the Pearl River, and the Amur. They float over plastic and garbage, and the analysis is that already in 2050 there will be more plastic than fish in the sea. The most effective way to reduce the problem of plastics in the seas is to stop pollution along these ten rivers, according to the study. We know that along these rivers there are densely populated areas, and they are ashore which have poor waste management in general. The largest plastic probe of these ten rivers is the Yangtze River of China, which, according to the study, transports up to 1.5 million tonnes of plastic annually into the sea. By comparison, the river Thames transports 18 tonnes of plastic annually into the sea. My question to the Council of State Vidar Helgesen is: How have the Council of State and the government been going to help us stop the increase in the amount of plastic at sea, and how will the government help us to clean the sea of the plastic that is already there?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e444	Norway has for several years taken a leading role internationally in the fight against plastic pollution – because it is a rapidly increasing environmental problem and because it is a threat to the natural diversity of the sea, but also a threat to the marine economy. That is why, in the United Nations Environment Assembly, we have been working towards the decision we were given in December, a zero vision in which the world's country agreed to stop the introduction of plastic into the sea. That is a good starting point, but there is nothing more than that, because it is the measures that will be crucial. This is an important follow-up to the decision to mobilise countries for action. We attach great importance to dialogue with China, to which Raja pointed. I was in Beijing in December discussing this problem with my Chinese colleague, and we agree to strengthen cooperation with China on plastic pollution. We've initially set aside 150 million. on the assistance budget for global action against marine pollution and microplastics. There, it will be important to contribute to targeting, so that we focus on those sources that are the largest. Let me make that clear for 90 pst. of the plastic transported by rivers – so it is not of all plastic but of what is transported by rivers – these 10 rivers are essential. But it's very much, and that's why it's a good starting point for action. I then believe that the most important thing is to contribute to better waste systems in these countries. These are countries in Asia that have experienced strong economic growth and thus also a strong increase in plastic consumption, but not a waste infrastructure that keeps going. That's why we want to bet on it, but we also want to bet on being in dialogue with, among other things. The World Bank and the United Nations Environment Programme call for more attention to be paid to supporting waste infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e453	I thank you for your answer. It is true that when these ten rivers carry so much plastic out to sea, it will continue to be the world's fastest growing environmental problem if we don't take it. Then we risk, as I say, getting more plastic than fish in the sea by 2050, if we don't take responsibility and put in action now. Both fish and birds living in and out of the sea get so much plastic and garbage that they actually die of it. The sea is our treasury and food barrel – the sea is our future – and we cannot continue to use it as garbage filling. Together, we can ensure that marine wildlife and seafood are free of plastics. Then we can enjoy the beaches, free of both garbage and other hazardous waste. It's good for people, it's good for animals, it's good for nature, and not least it's good for development policy globally and for the poorest countries themselves. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State mean that we need a change of pace globally to achieve these goals that we set ourselves in such an ambitious way?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e460	We absolutely need a change of pace globally. But it's nice to see that the attention to this problem is increasing. We see greater efforts globally of the kind we have in Norway with a movement of people for beach clearance. We see much greater media attention on that. We see that the authorities understand that they need to take this seriously, and not least there are several operators in the business community who see that they too are served by reducing plastic waste and that this problem is being taken seriously. This is done, among other things: by putting in place a great deal of effort to develop alternatives to plastics; there is a great deal of research and innovation that is absolutely necessary. But we cannot escape the fact that it is too slow and that Norway's international leadership in this area must continue. We aim to build a coalition of countries that will go ahead, and then we hope to get along with the regrets in this field too.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e465	It opens for follow-up questions - first Ketil Kjenseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e470	Plastics in the sea have become a major environmental problem, and scientists fear that there will soon be more plastic than fish in some sea areas. In the state budget for 2018 we agreed after negotiations in Stortinget that we would double the effort, from 35 million. NOK 70 million. kr, to combat marine litter. It's a small but absolutely necessary step. On Coastal Day several thousand volunteers have cleared their local beaches both along the coast and in the Inland, where I come from. In 2016 almost 380,000 kg of garbage was removed from Norwegian beaches, and most of it was plastic. Beach cleaners have cleared a coastline corresponding to the distance between Oslo and Bergen turn/return. According to the report of Strand Rider Day, the garbage consists of a number of plastic items, where plastic pieces, ropes, drinking bottles, isopor, strips and corks are repeaters. What further measures does the Council of State see that we can start to deal with these major problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e477	It is quite right, as the representative, Mr Kjeseth, says, that we have strengthened our efforts strongly in the area of beach clearance, and that is important as a prevention measure. We now have a number of measures to be taken during 2018. Measures to reduce the spread of rubber cullet from artificial grass tracks. Measures against so-called biofilm carriers from sewage treatment plants. We are working on systems for the provision of marine waste free of charge in port. We have commissioned the Environment Directorate to assess ways of increasing road-washing, so that something can be done with the microplastics coming from car decks. We have a producer responsibility regime for the fishing and farming industries, and we have commissioned the Environment Directorate to investigate regulatory requirements for pollution from small boat ports. Then I have to mention that, in addition to the grant scheme we have in the Environment Directorate – where the advertising of this year's grant goes out today – we from the commercial industry have a large fund on the bill that will be a major contributor here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e484	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e489	The marine waste challenge we face is both national and global. My question to the Council of State is what Norway can do as an active nation in this regard. How can we go ahead, how can we engage the UN? In that case, what kind of role can we play in international cooperation – a virtue – to clean up the plastic situation we have in the sea? In Norway, we have 100 offshore ships at berth. I'm not saying that those ships can just set off farms and start clearing plastics in the sea, but are there opportunities for you to rebuild some of those ships and actually take a grip on cleaning plastic from the sea? I think it is important for the Council of State to respond to this in concrete terms, but also to what kind of position Norway should take in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e496	To take it with Norwegian offshore vessels specifically: yes, there is a possibility, but there is a great deal of professional disagreement about how easy and how appropriate it would be to try to capture plastic at sea. That's why I'm very attached to the fact that it's being tried and possibly failed, but that's not the only way to attack this. We must have clearing, and we must stop the sources – that is what is crucial – and international work is crucial. We have things to do in Norway too, as I pointed out, but our work, our leadership role, in the UN is important here, our interaction with the EU is important here, our interaction with the countries of the OSPAR, the North Atlantic Convention, is important, and our interaction with our Nordic neighbouring countries is important, also because the Nordic countries are cooperating here on an international leadership. In the follow-up to the UN resolution of December, my aim is to mobilise a coalition of states and businesses to take this agenda further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e501	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e507	It is good that the Left will follow up our question before Christmas about this river report. Otherwise, beach cleaning is good and good, it does something with our own attitude, it does something about hard work here in the country, and it contributes to cleaner beaches. But this is primarily a global problem and, as the Council of State pointed out, waste management in many countries is under every criticism. How will the Council of State take the initiative to contribute to better abstinence... – no, abstaining is another matter! [[Laughter]] How will the State Council take initiatives to contribute to better waste management in the countries responsible for the largest emissions to rivers? Is it methods via e.g. trade agreements which may contribute to incentives in these countries for better waste management?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e512	I do not ignore the fact that any action against plastic bottles can contribute to more abstinence too, without it being a main act! I think the most important thing we do is to build on the increasing understanding that is there in the countries. [[Laughter]] Trade agreements are something that takes a very long time, and they're complex. I think we have a maturity for interaction here that's significant, and that's why we have to build on it, and then we have to use Norwegian financial support, but we also have to talk to countries about their waste legislation. An example of this is a dialogue we have already had with Indonesia – and also with the World Bank linked to Indonesia – on how to build a better waste management system, including: the question of whether they need to deregulate in order to accept private operators into this market in order to make things happen faster. That is the kind of concrete dialogue we have with individual countries, and I think it will be important in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e519	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e524	I will first commend the Council of State for going in to increase the pledge on drinking packaging, and then we'll see if it leads to more abstinence and less waste. Plastic pollution is not just a global problem; it is also, to the most extent, a local problem. On Frierstranda in Telemark there are millions of plastic balls scattered around. Right across the street, on the other side of the fjord, is Norway's largest plastic factory, INEOS Bamble. Environmentalists have for a long time notified of pollution from this factory and from other factories elsewhere in the country. My question is, what does the Council of State do to ensure that those responsible clean up the plastic pollution – where you actually know who the plastic sinner is?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e533	It is important that we have good plastic pollution monitoring, and there environmental protection organisations and others are very well involved in alerting about situations. When they occur, it is the Environment Directorate, in particular, that is to call on the polluter to stop pollution and clean it up, and in this case, if it can be demonstrated that this company is the source of pollution, it sounds as if it would be the first measure to take. And if it's not followed, you can follow up with tighter grips.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e538	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e543	There have been exciting times in the fjord world for a long time, because the cause of fjord deposition in the Fjord is perhaps one of the most mentioned and controversial pollution issues we have in Norway today. And it's not that strange, because this is about a permission to deposit a total of 250 million tons of mining waste. Let me first remind you a little bit about the history of things. For after warnings from businessmen and people along the fjord, from the Fiskerlag, from the Marine Research Institute and several others, the Environment Directorate said no to Nordic Mining's plans on 4 November 2014. The Directorate made it clear that this was their advice, and that it was an environmental basis: that it was due to negative environmental consequences. Later, the Directorate-General for the Environment asked the State Council responsible to review the environmental impact, looking at the societal impact of the project. At that time, Nordic Mining claimed that mining activity would last up to 50 years, and that only 10 of them would be in the open, and that on average there would be 170 jobs at the mine. Why do I spend so much time on history? Well, because it is clear that this has been a difficult matter, where directorates, state councils and departments have two different concerns towards each other, and where the benefits of society were marginally watered down. And that's important, because December 14th, the Nordic Mining exams turned over to the entire leadership of the project. They reported that there would be 110 jobs on average, that mining would last for 29 years, and that the period of daybreak would extend to 16 years, i.e. it would last more than half the period. When considering such issues, I am aware that there is uncertainty about life expectancy, social benefits and so on, but the question is how large a swirling coin should actually be used when it is quite clear that a path of two different concerns towards each other. So now when we know that there's going to be longer activity with the daybreak, that the operation at the mine is only 29 years old, and that there's going to be fewer jobs, how will the Council of State set the limits of societal impact against the environmental effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e556	It is quite right that when assessing an emission permit under the pollution law, environmental authorities can also take account of societal impacts, including social economy and jobs, but the main task of environmental authorities is to assess the environmental and pollution conditions and, if they are not acceptable, will not be authorised. In the case of Engebøgruva, we have taken into account in the emissions permit decision that there is uncertainty in the number of jobs, and new information will therefore not initially change our view. But this is also based on a thorough investigation of the environmental impact. Among other things, measurements were made in the field of health and safety at work. the fjord flow conditions for nearly a year and found that there is a low risk of particulate dispersal and unlikely that the deposit will have a negative impact on the life of the fjord outside the landfill area. There is no doubt that where mining waste is deposited, the sea bed will be dead during the period of landfilling, but when the risk of spreading is low, it means that the impact on the rest of the fjord will be small. In this context, it is important to point out that the landfill area is outside that part of the fjord which is national salmon fjord. It is also important that none of the options for landfilling were considered to be environmentally superior to landfilling at sea. So my answer is that the new information is not of a kind that makes us want to change our view, because it is the environmental that has been most important in the assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e567	The masses that one assessed were fit to lie in the sea were 70 pst. larger than the masses Nordic Mining now says they need to landfill. I notice that the Council of State does not respond exactly to where the limit actually goes, when it is quite clear that one has taken care of the environment against the concerns of the societal effects. Own directorate has concluded that this will go beyond the variety of species in the fjord and critical red list and trodden species. In this case, there were fish trials at Gjøringebø in May, and everyone knows that one at Gjøringebø fishes "wintra-trash", and he doesn't get one in May, if one never fishes that long. Let me just remind you a little bit about where this is going: Nordic Mining has been given emission permits and extraction permits, but they have not received an operating concession. Does the Council of State think that a downscaling of the project's social benefits combined with an increase in the use of the day-to-day environment will be taken into account in an assessment and will have a bearing on how such a concession will be assessed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e574	We'll get back to that when that time comes. What was now the question is whether we want to reconsider the permit for extraction and landfill under the Pollution Act. We don't see any reason for that. If there were to be less landfill, it would be better at the bottom of the area, but experience shows that the natural diversity will return five to ten years after the landfill period. So it's while the deposit is in progress that the effects will be there. We're talking here about a presence of rutile that's important – one of the largest in the Nordic region. It is a mineral that is useful in different uses, and therefore this does not only have negative consequences. It also has important positive consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e581	It will be opened for follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e587	On behalf of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, work has recently begun on a marine protection area in Dalsfjorden. This is a work that has been anchored through several shopping messages and treatment here in Stortinget. The Dalsfjord has been designated as a protection area due to the topographical and biological resources that are considered as protective. Dalsfjorden is a neighbouring fjord to Fördefjorden, and it is probably one mile in the airline to the landfill area. Topographical and biological fjords are pretty similar. What makes one fjord considered fit for 250 million tonnes of mining waste, while the other must be secured by becoming a marine protection area?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e594	I cannot go into the details and I do not know the details of the assessments around Dalsfjorden, but we have a marine protection target in Norway, also based on international agreements, and therefore we identify marine protection areas according to a priority plan and based on protection values. There is Dalsfjorden, but there is not – as far as I know – Fördefjorden with it. The fact that we have a plan for marine protected areas does not mean that there are no other areas that have important natural diversity, but the assessment on the question of Fördefjorden is: Yes, it will have an effect where the deposit takes place, but there is little risk of spreading effects beyond it. In addition, continuous monitoring is required, and if particulate matter is to be seen, it may be required to stop in the establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e599	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e604	In connection with the landfill in Fördefjorden, Nordic Mining sought to release 720 tonnes annually of the substance Flotinor SM15. The Ministry, on the advice of the Environment Directorate, did not authorise the dumping of Flotinor due to possible environmental damage. Nordic Mining was to initiate studies on the effects of dumping this substance in fjords, but has not yet completed it. Does the Minister agree that Flotinor SM15 is an environmentally harmful substance? Will he do anything to ensure that Nordic Mining conducts the required investigations? Does the Minister see it as likely that he will grant permission to release Flotinor after Nordic Mining has carried out investigations, or is the substance for whatever environmental damage, in the view of the Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e611	When studies were ordered, it is because this is a substance that is environmentally harmful. We assume that the survey will be carried out before the establishment starts. Some of the reason – according to the company’s information – that the studies have not been started is that they see that this could be less used than they originally intended. They might also want to find alternatives. In this way, time can be a good help here. But this is a question that we want to follow up, so that we can ensure as little negative environmental impacts as possible, even in terms of this substance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e616	Then we move on to the next main question. I think State Council Helgesen can go and sit down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e623	My question should have gone to Helgesen, but it goes to the Minister of Defence. In November, Turkey drew 40 soldiers from a NATO drill in Stavanger. The Turkish authorities reacted strongly to the fact that Turkey, our NATO ally, was produced in the exercise as a NATO enemy. The tab shall have been committed by a contracted consultant. In the world today, we have enough security policy challenges, we don't have to create even more. The Minister of Defence has lamented the incident emphatically, but the matter also raises other fundamental questions about the Norwegian Defence Agency's arrangement. The loss during the NATO exercise in Stavanger was committed by an indirect consultant, and Harald Stanghelle has in my opinion asked a timely question: Are there really hired contractors who establish the enemy image in an important NATO exercise on Norwegian soil? He himself concluded: in that case we're bad out. The Norwegian Defence Agency has highly competent staff. The main resources of the defence are employees, not advanced material or weapon systems. Based on this embarrassing case from Stavanger, where does the border between what is to be rented and what is to be based on the competence of your own employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e634	The exercise mentioned was first of all an exercise that was in NATO. It is quite right that things happened there that made it necessary for both NATO and Norway as a host country to complain. I'm a little bit unsure whether it's a very good example to go forward in terms of renting. Such an exercise and such a scenario may in many fields need to acquire competence from the outside, but to draw a parallel to all the rentals, all the consulting activities that the Norwegian Defense needs, I think can be difficult. We balance it well, I mean, by collecting external competence the times we need it, and using our own skills the times we're going to do it. Such a large, complex and diverse organisation, with such a large, complex and diverse activity as the Norwegian Defence Agency has, will often need to acquire expertise from outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e639	The question to the Minister of Defence was whether it was wise in this case. So now there was to be an enemy image, and in such a situation to rely on someone who was temporarily hired, I have to say was unwise. Also in other parts of the defence, the rental that I believe is wrong is now assessed. One is privatised clean-up in the Defence Department, where the feedback from the Defence Department itself is that the quality of the clean-up team has deteriorated. The Grand Duchy has decided that the Army shall have its own helicopters, and the Right-wing representatives have sworn for the idea that there shall be hired helicopters. My question basically goes back to the question of this exercise: Was it wise in this exercise to use hired contractors to establish an enemy image?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e648	This was an event during an exercise that we have regretted. Pulling an automatic parallel to the rental of competence by the Defence Department means I'm becoming a problem that becomes too shallow and too snowy. I have experienced from my initial training experience that in practice scenarios we have hired journalists from the NRK, or journalists from elsewhere, we have had leaders in the Red Cross who have assisted in exercises, rapporteurs have assisted my home security exercises – we are collecting competence from outside. It's probably seen as a good grip, but in this case it didn't turn out to be a full as well grip. But to draw a parallel and use that type of example as an example that the defense will not collect external competence, possibly hire external forces to solve problems, I think it is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e653	There will be follow-up questions – first Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e659	The defence of the country is one of the fundamental tasks of the country. I agree with the representative Huitfeldt who stresses the importance of the competence of the employees – and therefore also the overall competence and knowledge of the defence – as the basis for the defence. After all, the Council of State would not respond to the examples that Huitfeldt's representative brought up, for example. the exercise in Stavanger and the lack of competence demonstrated in the assessments there, and considers that there is a bad way to raise this issue. So let me try to take the principle approach. How will the Council of State draw the fundamental line of defence, which carries out a fundamental task for the country: what competence and knowledge should one have in the defence, and what should be on the outside, in the meaning of renting in?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e668	Firstly, I agree with the introduction to the representative regarding the function of the defence, that we need the competence. And then we're also talking about what's called total defense. In other words, it is not that the defence has one task and can operate as a parallel society in Norway that is to solve all its tasks with its forces. In fact, the total defence of Norway is about the defence to interact with other civil institutions, public authorities and private business. In specific tasks, we seek to do so in the best possible way, as cost-effectively as possible. It may be a good idea that we take it under our own control, or it may be a good idea that we get other suppliers to do it on a contract basis. It is assessed on a case-by-case basis. But using a few examples and then creating a picture that we're out to run and now have to put the defense to solve all of their tasks alone – no, I don't think it creates defense, it doesn't create total defense, and it won't be a cost-effective way to do things.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e679	Steinar Ness - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e684	Many people disagree with the government that important maintenance of the new fighter aircraft F-35 should be added to Italy. The Netherlands and England have abandoned this solution of concern for security and preparedness. I assume that the Council of State is saying that as a society we owe the F-35 to the pilots that the planes are in peak condition when they go on their wings. I'm overconfident that this is best taken care of by the fact that those who carry out the maintenance are responsible for it, and that they as flights are part of a community, and that the work is done by the most skilled professionals we have in Norway. Could the Council of State agree on this? And do the Council of State think that we have a national strategic need to know that we are constantly ensuring the rapid and necessary maintenance of the new fighter planes to the Defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e691	In the last questions, it is quite easy to answer yes. But then the concept of F-35, which was chosen for a couple-three governments ago, involves a model where the different nations involved in the project solve different problems. This is what makes us in Norway — and some other countries — have maintenance of engines and some other countries have maintenance of hulls. Then I have to be allowed to shoot down the picture that you're trying to create here, because this is something new, and that it's something dangerous, and that it puts our defenses at risk. We've also done this with F-16. It's not like we're doing total maintenance of F-16 in Norway, we've never done that. We allocate tasks simply because these are eaten skills that should be as good as possible. We're doing good maintenance, and we're going to be absolutely sure that the tool that our people are going to use when they're going to practice and fight is going to be the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e700	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e705	I listened with interest to the answers given to the questions from Huitfeldt and Sivertsen representatives. I did not fully understand whether the Council of State had an answer to the question of principle. As I understood two very good questions from my colleagues, no one thought that nothing should be done outside of the Defence's own staff, but that it might have been tricked by the Minister of Defence to assess whether there are any fundamental differences between developing a practice scenario and, for example, developing a practice scenario. the collection of waste or the preparation of food. I guess that's something that gets closer to the core of what the defense is for. I think therefore I just allow myself to repeat the question: is there any such fundamental distinctions, or can one in principle put away any service?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e710	Then the representative probably did not understand what I said. I said that it's completely possible to make a fundamental distinction, but it's impossible to make a single distinction and say that there's - just because the problems are very different, the scenarios are very different. Do we practice, or is it about maintenance? Is it about purchases, or is it about doing things? The international law will set some of those distinctions in terms of activity and the type of personnel we're going to use. It's a complex image, and using cleanness and an exercise in NATO context as a case and saying that here we can put one fundamental distinction – it's very difficult, just because you can't take it in the same bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e715	Then the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e729	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has been removed. Question 4, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has been removed. Question 5, from the representative of Marit Arnstad to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away. Question 6, from the representative Ivar Odnes to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away. Question 9, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health and Care, will be answered by the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Health and Care, who has been away. Question 10, from the representative of Mr Pollestad to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Justice and Defence on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e753	As an east fold, I am pleased that the Council of State has spent a few hours in Moss. So I'm not going to say what I hope is the outcome of that experience, but at least I know that she's been in a fine environment, both architecturally and landscaped. So to the question: “Hotel Jeløy Radio” – which has received a lot of attention, and two other hotels in the immediate vicinity – “Hotel Refsnes Gods and Støtvig Hotel are special meeting and overnight places that operate with small margins. In the 2016 state budget, the co-operation parties increased travel income from 8 to 10 per cent, and from the new year, the same batches increased VAT from 10 to 12 per cent” – an increase of 50 pst. over a few years – ‘an increase that affects places like these hard. Will the Council of State cancel or confirm that in future places such as Hotel Jeløy Radio will be able to rely on predictable framework conditions and will not receive any further increase in the VAT rate?»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e768	Let me first take the opportunity to wish Stortinget a really good new year! Then I have to say that it is an understatement to say that I have spent a few hours in Moss. There have been a few quite long days, I can assure the representative that. But then to the question. It is such that the rates of taxation are adopted by the Storting for one year at a time. It follows from the Constitution. Therefore, the VAT rate, like all other tax rates, is assessed against the overall tax regime in the annual budgets. That will also be the case in the future. I understand that the hotel industry, like other businesses in this country, has a desire for predictable framework conditions. The government is also committed to pursuing a long-term and predictable economic policy, with good framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises. The government has therefore given priority to implementing growth-enhancing tax incentives that improve the business environment. These reliefs have also benefited the hotels. Among other things, lower corporate taxes also contribute to increased profitability for the hotel industry. In the period from 2013 to 2017, it has been given as much as 6.1 billion. kr in total net business tax relief. The 2018 budget provides a further 2.7 billion. kr in reliefs from the business tax. It's the overall framework conditions that matter to business. The government, through the tax reform, has provided significant tax relief to business. It has helped to improve the framework conditions for accommodation activities as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e781	So it goes as a laughing matter in the tourism industry, said Nikolai Astrup in the debate in the NRK before Christmas when he was going to explain the increase in the VAT rate for travel life. But in 2017 we saw that the tourist flow flattened out due to a standstill among Norwegian tourists. Nordics who vacation in their home country are responsible for about 75 pst. of the days spent in Norwegian tourism establishments, and in 2017 only Fjord-Norway and Nord-Norway had more commercial visits than in the previous year. The East, South and Tread layers went back. The reality is that one in three hotels are running out of money. These hotels cannot take VAT increases on the guests through increased prices, but they must bear the cost, i.e. the increase goes directly on the hotel bottom line and makes the numbers even more red. Then the reduced corporate tax does not have a significant impact on the company. Unannounced changes in VAT therefore have a double effect on many overnight stays. Do the Council of State agree that such action contributes to a weakening of competitiveness in an already competitive industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e788	Firstly, I am very much in agreement with Nikolai Astrup that much of Norwegian business is going well. We've been through a difficult period. After the sharp fall in oil prices, which gave us considerable challenges, especially in the South and West, we now see a situation where the arrows point in the right direction across the country. Unemployment is falling, growth is rising, employment is rising, and considerable optimism is being reported across the board. We're going to enjoy that. So it's still the way I said in my first answer, that it's the overall framework conditions for business that matter. I would like to remind the representative that this VAT increase has been isolated, for example. This means that a hotel room that cost NOK 1500 before Christmas, now costs NOK 1530. It must be considered to be relatively modest. However, I fully agree with the representative that is important, and that is precisely why the government focuses on different instruments to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e795	It was about the travel industry it was quoted to go so it laughs. The government budget is decided when it is decided, but predictability of business has been a mantra for this government. In the debate on the budget of the Business Committee before Christmas, the Right-wing Representative, Ebbesen – as an argument for why this increase came – said that it was a follow-up to the tax settlement. The reason was the ambition for an error of VAT. Firstly, there is nothing about increased VAT for travel in the tax settlement, but in the tax committee, on the other hand, it is argued that this VAT should be up to 15 p.m. Is it also the government's ambition, or is the ambition to increase the travel income to 25 pst. – or is the Minister of Finance simply in disagreement with the conclusion of the Tax Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e802	It is true that the tax range stressed the importance of taxing consumption rather than having taxes on labour and capital. I agree in part with that, but it is the case, as I said in my first answer, that the assessments made in the annual tax and tax returns are made with a good look at developments in the Norwegian economy. I can assure you that in the future we will have the same focus as in the years that we have left behind, that we will improve the framework conditions for Norwegian business and not weaken them. The lot of the centre should go on its own initiative and look at its own scheme, where, year after year, they propose net intensifications in taxation. It's not a contribution. This government has given net relief every year, and we have ambitions to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e812	I will first take advantage of the opportunity to wish the Minister of Finance a good new year. ‘In the last few years, budgetary settlements have adopted a number of significant charging jumps and proposals for new charges, such as: proposals for plastic bag tax, air-sitting tax and now an 83 per cent increase in the levy on chocolate and sugar products which have led to increased border trade and job losses in Norway. At the same time, the threshold for duty-free imports via networks from abroad has increased. Will the government propose a change in tax policy to reduce border trade and improve the prospects for Norwegian business?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e821	An assessment of the business environment cannot be based on individual changes in individual charges. In the 2018 budget agreement, the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left agreed to increase the excise duty on chocolate and sugar products and non-alcoholic beverages. At the same time, changes are being implemented that will have a positive impact on the Norwegian economy. The tax rate on general income for companies and persons is escalated to 23 p.m. The depreciation discount on shares and operating resources in the property tax has increased from 10 p.m. until 20 pst. In addition, a new scheme for the taxation of options in employment in small start-up companies is introduced. For industry, it is positive that through the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, the government has agreed that the property tax on production equipment and installations will be abolished over seven years from 2019. Again, it is the overall framework conditions that affect growth and jobs in this country, not the change in individual taxes. Under the terms of the budget agreement, the total amount of taxes and taxes payable under this government has been reduced by more than 24 billion. kr when all proposals are fully phased in. Nearly 8.8 billion. kr is the relief of the business tax. In other words, government policy has produced results. Together with an expansionary fiscal policy, it has helped to reverse the sharp setback following the oil price drop. Now the growth of the economy is on its way up, the unemployment is on its way down. The main challenge in the future will be to create new, profitable jobs in business. The government has therefore prioritised measures to increase the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. Wide tax havens for business and people are an important part of these measures. Cross-border trade is a challenge for the commercial sector, especially in border regions. According to the Central Statistical Bureau, Northmen traded for 15.8 billion dollars. kr on day trips abroad during the one-year period up to and including the third quarter of 2017. The background for border trade is complex. Differences in taxes and charges are one factor, but also factors such as the level of wages and costs, exchange rates and, in particular, the protection of customs duties on agricultural products. In a 2010 survey, the Statistical Centre found that about half of the border trade is the purchase of food. Tobacco and alcohol accounted for almost 30 pst., mineral water 5 pst. Excise duties on typical border products such as alcohol and tobacco shall, on the one hand, ensure revenue for the country and, on the other, contribute to a reduction in the consumption of products harmful to health. At the same time, the level of charges should not be so high that negative and unintended effects on illicit consumption and cross-border trade become too high. The balance between national objectives and undesirable effects is clearly a challenge. Overall, however, government policies have contributed to better business framework conditions, including: through tax reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e838	One does not get away from the fact that one has to be able to respond to the concrete effects of different tax increases that have occurred. Here just, instead, there was a representative from Eastfold who showed consequences for travel life. The Council of State indicates that she has spent some time in Eastfold lately, and there are also a number of other consequences of government tax policy. We had the air passenger charge, which helped to shut down Rygge Airport, and the consequence was that 1,000 jobs were lost. The new increase in the levy on chocolate and sugar products has a significant negative impact on both Borg brewery in Sarpsborg, Brynild in Fredrikstad, Askim Fruit and Bärpresseri and also consequences for border trade. Then my question is to the Council of State: Has her days in Eastfold – I don't know if she has spent so much time outside the meeting rooms – given a new recognition of the need to have a predictable charging policy that can also help reduce border trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e845	There is no need to travel to Eastfold to agree on the importance of predictability and good framework conditions for Norwegian business. It's been this government's mantra ever since we joined. If we are to look at the consequences of the policy, we need to look at developments in the Norwegian economy. So it's going well. Now we're in a situation where unemployment goes down, employment goes up, growth is growing. This is optimism in all industries throughout the country. I think maybe the Center Party could cost itself a little bit to enjoy this development and see that it's the value of the overall framework conditions that actually matter to our business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e852	It is very gratifying that businesses are doing well in many parts of the country, but then the question is how the policy works and what kind of effect it has. When you look at the overall framework conditions, Siv Jensen in its time as Minister of Finance has helped us to get about. 7 B.C.E. In the case of increased charges in Norway. In addition to what has previously been mentioned, we have also received a significant increase in fuel taxes, a significant increase in electricity taxes. Now one is in Moss and the dealer, and it seems that the left might be going into government. Then my question is: When the Left eventually joins the government, does the Minister of Finance realize that it will mean a greater increase in taxes than we have so far seen, or will it contribute to a smaller increase in taxes than we have so far seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e859	The representative Gegelsvik was interested in looking at the overall framework conditions, but he certainly chooses to bring forward individual tax changes. If we look at the overall changes in the framework conditions since I became Minister of Finance, the total tax and tax burden has decreased by 24 billion. kr. 8.8 billion of those billions have gone to reduce food taxes. It is the overall changes in the framework conditions that have a positive impact on Norwegian business. I'm proud of that, and it's the result of a collaboration with the Christian People's Party and the Left. So I've discovered that the Center Party is touchingly concerned about what is happening in the negotiations on Jeløia, and may have wanted to help crush it a little, since they've been trying to call in a whole bunch of the state councils that are sitting trying to negotiate. Of course, it's the Center Party's right to do that. But I can assure you that we are committed to ensuring the Norwegian industry's framework conditions in those negotiations as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e869	This question, from the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e874	I have the following questions for the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation: ‘In the process of Innst. 52 S. Stortinget decided that no coercive action should be taken against municipalities to bring them together. [[2017-2018]] Can the Council of States confirm that he will respect this decision and that he will not take the initiative to re-examine the principle of volunteering?’ I was going to ask the question to the municipal minister. He has actively chosen not to meet in Stortinget, which is the prime duty of a Council of State if the Council of State is in the country. State Council Sanner prioritised going to the NHO party dinner yesterday with the social summits, but did not choose to meet the elected representatives. He doesn't have time for that. I therefore draw my question, because the Council of State Helgesen is not constitutionally responsible for the municipal reform and the centralisation it leads to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e885	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum then explained why the question will not be asked, and we will proceed to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e893	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e898	I would like to ask the Minister the following questions: «In the spring 2017 session, Stortinget Prop. 39 L of the Section of Ownership Act. [[2016-2017]] The majority then decided to ask the Council of State to consider several important points for the development of the housing market and safe, good living environments, including the right of the co-operatives to limit the provision of housing, tightening the rule that it is only allowed to buy up a maximum of two apartments in one co-operative, limits on the volume of commercial rentals of dwellings, etc. What is the status of the work on investigating these points, and when will the Council of State return to the Storing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e907	The three request decisions, to which the representative of Bøhler refers, were adopted on 29 May 2017. In the first decision, 705, Stortinget has asked ‘the government to return to Stortinget with a comprehensive legislative proposal that assesses the issue of hygiene both in the owner’s section law and in the planning and building law’. The Ministry assesses whether there is reason to propose new or clearer rules in the Planning and Building Act and whether there should be additions to the new Ownership Act. In the second decision, 706, Stortinget asked ‘the government to return to Stortinget with proposals for legislation for short-term renting of housing sections’. In the third decision, 707, Stortinget has asked ‘the government to return to Stortinget with a legislative proposal to ensure that the Stortinget’s intention is followed with a restriction on the acquisition of housing pools’. The municipal minister aims to return to Stortinget in 2018 with the follow-up of all the decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e920	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive, as I understood the conclusion, that there is a matter for the Stortinget in 2018 from the government about this. This suggests that we can get treatment within a reasonable time – at least this year. The process began in 2014 and the intention of the bill of ownership was to address the questions that are now being examined again. I hope that it is now a real investigation that is being carried out, and that it is not just something that ends up again in more unclear assessments. I just want to say that I have been referred to from a recording meeting in the ministry, where it was just unclear whether you want to follow the Stortinget's message to make proposals, or whether you are just going to make assessments and if you want to report back those assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e929	In principle, the Ministry and the Council of State will follow the decision of the Storting, but this will be done in the course of an investigation. Among other things are e.g. the term ‘hybridisation’ is not a unique term. This means that there is a need for a good investigation before the assessment of proposing one or the other solution is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e934	Thanks for the additional reply. I am aware that it is not the Council of State that is present today, working directly on these matters for the day-to-day, but will only stress that there has been a very wide dissension about the descriptions of reality, both in the Storting, from all parties – the concept of 'hyblifisis', as mentioned by the Council of State, is elaborated in the setting, which is written by all parties – and in the input from Oslo City Council, also from all parties there. And in the recording meeting that was now on 4 January in the department on this issue, everyone present reported their wish for a new regulation in this field. It was NBBL, the Landsförbund, Leieboerforeningen, Utleiemgleren, Bergen kommune, Oslo kommune, Trondheim kommune, Eiendom Norway AS, OBOS, BoligMentoren and the Freestanding Housing Managers' Association. It's a broad wish that goes across the dividing lines that we often see. I hope the Council of State remembers that attitude, which is very strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e941	The holding of recording meetings is important precisely in order to identify the views, to identify the different aspects and not least to provide the best possible basis for the assessment to be made by the government. The fact that there are clear feedbacks from such a recording meeting will be a matter of emphasis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e949	This question, from the representative of Marit Arnstad to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e954	I have this question to the Minister for Transport: ‘In the context of the rail reform, the Council of State has previously stated that railway employees are to be treated well and, inter alia, not deprived of accrued-to-date pension rights. Purity of trains is now being put at a competitive disadvantage. It affects more than 200 employees, most women. In practice, in the event of such a competitive outsourcing, all over 55 years lose the opportunity to dispose of the AFP. Does the Council of State consider such a deterioration in pension rights to be sustainable, and what will he do to correct this injustice?’ The Minister for Transport is not present today, and I have not accepted, in the dialogue with the Ministry, that it can be put to a Council of State. I am aware that the Council of State is domestic, and I assume that he believes that he has important assignments. I am also aware that he had time to be at NHO's annual dinner last night, and then I think it is alarming that he does not have time to ask in Stortinget and answer questions about the situation of the cleaners in NSB. So I draw my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e967	The representative Marit Arnstad then explained why the question will not be asked, and we will proceed to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e975	This question, from the representative Ivar Odnes to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e980	I have this question to the Minister for Transport: ‘In Moss News on 4 January 2018 it appears that the State Road Service will once again widen to find the future route for Route 19 through Moss. Does the Council of State support the extension of the State Road Administration to that of the government's January 2015 draft elections, in order to find a future solution for Route 19 through Moss, and is such a broad approach compatible with construction start by 2024 at the latest?» I also record that the Minister for Transport has not found time to ask the Stortinget to answer the question. If I had wanted a written answer to read here – not to underestimate the oil and energy minister – I would have accepted it, but there is a question that needs a little further answer. So I'm going to draw up the question today and I'd like to deal with it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e993	Then the representative Ivar Odnes has explained why the question will not be asked, and we will proceed to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1001	‘The flocks of wolves in Norway are in areas where there is no sheep on the estuary. The damage caused to the buff is here almost zero. At the same time we had the tragedy last summer, where a single Swedish unfloor caused great losses outside the sons. In almost all cases, Swedish wolves migrate westward into grazing areas. Do the Governments agree with the assessments that, therefore, there is no loss of domestic animals, which is the reason for the harvesting of wolf flocks, but other reasons, and can they indicate which?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1008	Yes, I agree with the representative Nävra that there is no loss of domestic animals or domestic animals that is the reason for taking out the two wolf flocks on which there is now a fall in licence. The decision of 1 December 2017 to authorise the licensing of wolves in Julussareviret and Osdalsreviret explains in detail the damage potential of these two flocks to domestic animals and domestic animals. There is neither sheep nor tamrein on the edge of the reviral area, and the damage to dogs and cattle is limited. I have therefore concluded in the assessment that there is no legal basis for allowing licensing on grounds of damage potential. This is also consistent with the assessments that both the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice and Defence and I did last winter. However, when I opened up the licensing of these two flocks this winter, it is because I have put great emphasis on the principle of differentiated management and the new opinions of Stortinget in spring 2017. A clear zone management means that the threshold must be low in order to allow the killing outside the zone, while it shall be equivalently high within the wolf zone. It is my opinion that this distinction can be clearly practised if it does not threaten the survival of the population, which is the case in the present case. It is important for predictability and for local conditions to be clear. Both the Julussa and the Osdals have had an area use where most of the reefs were outside the wolf zone. After an overall assessment, where I have placed great emphasis on clear zone management and on Stortinget's statements, I have come to the conclusion that there is a public interest of significant importance that there is little presence of wolves outside the wolf zone. It has also granted Oslo jurisdiction to the State in its judgment of 5 January, in which the World Natural Fund Norge did not comply with the requirement to stay in the licensing case until there is a final judgment in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1021	I thank you for your answer. Both the Ministry and the Court relied on this justification for a substantial public interest. If this means zone management, which I assume it means, and that the Osdal and Julussa teams were adopted shot because most of the reefs were outside the zone, then the council would be able to consider a newly established flock here differently if the herds mainly use land within the zone, even if we are talking about maybe seven-eight helnorphic flocks, so over the so-called stock target that the Storting has adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1026	It is in my opinion and my decision from December that zone management, the principle of differentiated management, is important. So the Court has emphasized this in its judgment. That's also the background that I didn't allow the killing of the Slagås, which is at the heart of the wolf zone. But what conclusions will be drawn in hypothetical situations in the future, I'm not going to agree to speculate on now. We must – and I will – make a concrete assessment in the individual case of the legal basis for killing. The aim is to follow-up and respect the stockpiles of the Storting, but the legal issues are sometimes somewhat different from those of the stockpiles.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1031	I thank you again for the answer from the Council of State. By and large, the state council – and Oslo district court, to the extent that, in last wolfdom – refers to the Scandinavian wolf population, and it is not threatened, it is said. After the Berne Convention, we have a national responsibility for endangered species, such as the wolf. In addition, according to the NRC, on 5 January: «As long as we have wolves on the stock target, the stock is not threatened.» Against this background: Why does the Council of State believe that the wolf is as critically threatened on the red list? And does he think it's wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1041	We have as our starting point what is also the starting point of the Great Britain through the accession of the Great Britain to the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act, that the wolf is a endangered species, and that the starting point is that the felling of the wolf is prohibited. The exceptions must be justified by the conditions and conditions laid down in the law. That's what I'm dealing with. One of the conditions concerns the survival of the population. The assessments we have made in the absence of a thorough assessment of the population on the Norwegian side of the border – it is to the extent that an assessment by the Directorate-General for the Environment is in the process of being carried out during this year – are to relate to a Swedish assessment that says that as long as the wolf population in Norway is around 40 wolves, the southern Scandinavian wolf population is not threatened, starting from the Swedish stock target. The court has also agreed that we see this as a southern Scandinavian and not just Norwegian tribe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1051	‘Sweden has carried out an investigation into the size of populations and management objectives required to have a viable wolf population. No similar assessment has been made in Norway and no assessment has been made as to what is required for Norway to contribute to a viable Scandinavian population. In 2017 the Stortinget government carried out a professional review of the Norwegian sub-population of wolf. When will the Council of State provide such a professional investigation with biological assumptions that a Norwegian sub-population can be classified as viable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1058	As the representative Per Espen Stoknes refers to, Stortinget has decided that the government should carry out a professional review of the Norwegian sub-population of wolves. In the opinion of the Committee on the basis of the decision of the Storting, the majority refers to the hearing held by the Committee on 21 March 2017, in which the first amanunensis Petter Wabakken of the Hedmark College presented to the Norwegian wolf population, and the majority noted that Wabakken made it clear that no independent investigation has been carried out into what could be defined as a viable population in Norway. The majority therefore consider it important to carry out a professional review of the wolf population in Norway as a basis for the ongoing management of the species. The majority have also pointed out that such an investigation must take into account the fact that Norway and Sweden share a common southern Scandinavian wolf population. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has commissioned the Directorate of the Environment to carry out this professional review of the Norwegian sub-population of wolves, in line with the Stortingen request decision. The Directorate-General for the Environment makes a call for tenders and provides for such a review. According to the plan, the investigation will be completed in December 2018 and the Stortinget will be properly informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1069	It is not new that the Norwegian government will shoot much of the Norwegian wolf population, and at the same time claims that it is quite okay because there are many wolves in Sweden. But we have at least two problems with this strategy. Firstly, one of the prerequisites for Sweden’s wolf targets is that Norway does not reduce its share of the Scandinavian population. Secondly, I wonder why the Council of State Helgesen then implements the largest turf act in Norway in nearly 100 years – without there being any potential for damage – before getting the knowledge of what is a viable Norwegian subpopulation. Shooting wolves are not quite easy to get back.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1074	In our assessment, we base ourselves on the fact that the SKANDULV project has assessed that we have about 40 wolves in Norway and look to the Swedish stock target, so the survival of the stock will not be threatened with regard to the southern Scandinavian wolf population. We have a system in Norway with annual assessments of licensing. When we're over the stock target, it's the predators who make that assessment. Complaints about their decisions end up on my table, and then I have to make decisions. I can't wait till next year to do that. We'll get more information next year – or at least the year after that again, when this investigation will be ready. But now we are based on the best available knowledge, and we believe that we have sufficient knowledge to reach scientifically sound decisions on licensing decisions this year as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1081	I want to ask a slightly more fundamental question about how the government deals with the wolf in Norwegian nature. The species is, as we heard earlier, critically threatened and on the red list. We all agree that species belonging in Norwegian nature should not be critically threatened by extinction. We have the Nature Diversity Act, the Environmental Information Act, the Constitution and the Berne Convention. Then my last question is: does the Council of State have a clear plan to make the Norwegian wolf population viable, so that the wolf comes out of the Norwegian Red List? It's a yes/no question. Does the council have such a plan, or does he not?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1086	Governments have a plan to respect Storting's decision. It is a matter of respecting the decision of the Storting to incorporate the Berne Convention into Norwegian law, it is a matter of respecting the decision of the Storting on the Law on Natural Diversity and it is a matter of respecting the decision of the Storting on stockpiles and other aspects of predatory and wolf policy, inter alia. the two-part objective. Balancing these considerations is not always easy, including: because there is no direct consistency between stock targets and the criteria laid down in the law. We've had a lot of laps about last year, and we're going to have rounds about that in the future. It has also been a theme this year, but I note that we have received support from Oslo on the fact that the basis we have for this year's license hunt is valid. My continued plan is to deal with those frameworks and make concrete assessments year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1096	This question, from the Kjersti Toppe representative to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister of Health and Care, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1101	I have this question for the Minister of Health: ‘There is an ongoing conflict between the municipality of Health Bergen and Bergen when it concerns the development of the provision of maternity leave when the health care provider is to reduce the responsibility for the provision of maternity leave from five to two days, without this being compensated in the municipality by means. Can the Council of State respond to the cost of a day-to-day maternity leave, and what Health Bergen will annually save on cutting the responsibility with three days' sleep for women/children, and can the Council of State explain why the government does not intervene and secure its interests?’ I have asked the Minister of Health and Care about the provision of maternity leave in the municipality. I have told the Ministry that according to the nature of the question I will ask the Council of State. I am aware that the Minister of Health and Health is domestic, that he attended the NHO's annual dinner yesterday, but does not give priority to meeting in the Stortinges Question Time. I therefore see that it is necessary to draw the question and will ask it again to the responsible State Council next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1112	The representative Kjersti Toppe then explained why the question was not asked, and we will proceed to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1121	This question, from the representative of Geir Pollestad to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Justice and Defence on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1126	I have this question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Minister of Fisheries is aware of promises of growth in the farming industry and the corresponding payment to the host municipalities. The reality is that there has been little growth in recent years. Can growth be promised in 2018, and how has the Council of State intended to comply with the promises given?’ I have asked the Minister for Fisheries a question that is important both for the farming industry and for coastal communities. It is a matter that I guess will be influenced by the government negotiations that are going on. I am aware that the stasis wire is in the country, I have not accepted in the dialogue with the department that it will be set up with the seat state council. I wanted to register that I am not a follow-up. I think the government's duty to meet in the Storting should be taken up with the government – not just the duty to meet at NHO's annual dinner. So I draw my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1137	The representative Geir Pollestad then explained why the question was not asked, and we will proceed to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1145	‘The majority of the Health and Welfare Committee would like to move the follow-up to the use and possession of illicit drugs for its own use from the justice sector to healthcare. It will take time to get the changes in place. In the meantime, heavy drug users are at risk of being punished instead of being helped. What will the Council of State do to ensure that police resources are not used to punish drug users who are struggling, but rather to take backers and longings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1152	It is important to note that a majority in the United Kingdom wants to change Norway’s drug policy in such a way that responsibility for the community’s follow-up to the use and possession of illicit drugs for its own use is transferred from the justice sector to healthcare. The impact of a majority proposal now available needs to be fully investigated, also in view of the desired impact. The police have to enforce the current legislation. According to the police law, § 2-3 is responsible for detecting and stopping criminal activity and pursuing criminal offences. As long as drug use and possession are punishable, there can be no general amnesty, nor in the form of stopping all resource efforts against some categories of crime. We cannot foreshadow the outcome of the coming process. Already today are the top leaders in Prop. In terms of police action in the field of drugs, particular attention should be paid to the detection of the perpetrators and criminal exploitation of illicit drug trafficking. Action against user settings will also be important, but with a view to preventing new recruitment and providing information on serious drug crime. The prosecution authority is independent of political authorities in dealing with individual cases in criminal matters. The Advocate General, who has the overall professional responsibility for criminal proceedings, carries this out separately by means of his Annual Round of Objectives and Priorities. I'm told by the Attorney General that possession of drugs for personal use is not a priority crime area. In the last Round of Objectives and Priorities for Criminal Procedures, it is stated that drug law offences are: ‘The number of cases of serious drug abuse investigated and resolved remains an important marker of police action against organised crime. [[...]] The police’s efforts to detect backers and the withdrawal of profits therefore need to be adequately addressed in 2017. In particular, the action shall focus on criminal networks.’;» And on the other hand, ‘Police activity aimed at user environments is also important, in particular to prevent new recruitment and to provide information on serious drug crime.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1172	It seems that the Minister of Justice of the Progressive Party does not take on board the fact that a new majority in the United Kingdom has voted down the Progress Party and wants to help drug users instead of punishing them. The Council of State says that it is their priority to take backers, but in 2015 7,796 criminal responses were given to the possession and use of drugs. 224 were unconditional imprisonment. This requires a lot of resources, and what I'm asking the Council of State, is how we can use those funds more wisely. The Council of State is responsible for a field where we know that very many rapists go free. The Council of State is responsible for a field where we know that backers, long-term traffickers and drug traffickers are free, while at the same time we have almost 8 000 cases of criminal responses to drug use and possession. This, I think, is very problematic, and I try again to ask: what will the Council of State do to use the funds to take backers and longers to a greater extent than today, rather than punishing people who are struggling with serious drug problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1177	Police handling of criminal cases — police investigation, police arrest, police work, and what is illegal activity or not — are defined by this room, defined by the Storting through legislation. It was just to be lacking that you should not deal with the legislation that is actually in place, which is applicable at any time in our time. Then we can't foreshadow that it's going to happen a change. But again, I stress that possession of drugs for personal use is not a priority area of crime. It also shows the use of resources and how you choose to deal with these issues. However, you cannot, on the part of the police — and not on the part of the department — disregard what is the law in force, adopted by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1184	The Council of State itself now says something about what is a priority, and what else is not a priority in the field of justice. But the rest of the answer sounds like he's completely lost control of his own sector and what they're going to give priority to, because he's two hands. In fact, we have almost 8 000 cases of drug use and possession. That is what SV believes is a poor use of police resources. If the Council of State requires more legislative changes quickly in order to do something, SV can well form a majority and overrun the Progress Party in the Stortinget. But I think it would have been better for the council even though he was able to take signals and stop punishing heavy drug users. It is noted that it is important to stop use, but what we know from Portugal, from a study conducted by Murkin from 2014, is that long-term use and short-term use have decreased. Punishment doesn't work, but help works. So if the Council of State then believes that he cannot make changes to priorities: Have I correctly understood the Council of State – does he think that the SV must once again promote new legislative proposals and outrun the Progress Party in the Storting, so that we can stop punishing heavy drug users and help them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1191	Both prosecutors and courts focus on the fact that fines or prison sentences do not resolve drug dependence. Therefore, targeted criminal responses to treatment and follow-up, such as drug use, are already being used. youth follow-up, waiver of charges with conditions and drug programmes with judicial control. As long as drug use and possession are punishable, there can be no general amnesty, nor in the form of stopping all resource efforts against some categories of crime. So regardless of that, there's a priority that's being made, and the Riksadvokat has some clear priorities. Here there is no rush among those who are uplifted, and that I base on the further work. Then I will deal with the decisions of the Stortinge in the form of law. That's what defines what's criminal and what's forbidden in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1199	«At a seminar on preparedness at Stortinget on 12 December, the Head of the Joint Police Association was to give an introduction. Several times in his speech, he stressed that the police were now ‘organized away from the people’. Does the State Council have a different view of this than the highest trust elected by the police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1206	To claim that the police are about to be ‘organised away from the people’ must be due to a misunderstanding. In his question, the Storting representative refers to an unverified opinion of the head of the Police Joint Union. I would like to stress that the near-police reform was designed precisely in close cooperation with the employees' organisations, where the Joint Police Association was central, and that there is a broad agreement on the Stortinget that laid the foundations for the reform we are implementing today. The aim of the reform is precisely to ensure the presence of a competent, effective, local neighbourhood police where the population lives, and at the same time to develop good professional environments that equip us to meet today's and tomorrow's crime challenges. In order to achieve this objective, structural change was necessary. An important basis for the assessment of the structure of police districts was the need to focus on just availability and service to the public. The means of achieving the objective of the reform include: the establishment of police contacts, more obligatory police councils, the establishment of local emergency services and a police patrol to do police work on the ground. The police patrol is the visible and important contact for the population and constitutes the basic preparedness at local level. There's also been a lot of effort on the police crew. The number of police district employees has increased significantly. In 2017, there are a total of 533 new posts, police-trained ones, in the police department, where everything has mainly gone to the police districts. I would also like to refer to the evaluations that have been carried out. The diffi evaluation report on the close police reform shows good cooperation between the police and the municipalities and praises the police for their preventive role, such as: through the presence of schools. The 2017 survey shows a historically high level of trust in the police. So in a situation where you've been through the most demanding parts of the police reform, there's an increase in trust with the police, which is now at 83 p.m. It turns out that the inhabitants feel safe – 95 pst. the public feels safe with today's police. That in itself should indicate the exact opposite of what the representative claims in his questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1219	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I fully agree that it is very positive that there is a high level of trust in the police, which it has been for a long time. At least the police reform cannot be attributed to it, which has not yet been implemented. But what I want the Council of State to respond to concerns other investigations that have been carried out among police personnel. Two independent investigations have been carried out, by the UiB and by the Police Forum, which show that there is a very large and alarming proportion of policemen who have low confidence that the police reform will lead to a better police force. In the police forum's investigation, 75 pst answers. of the 6,000 asked that they disagree with the claim that the reform will contribute to a competent and effective local neighbourhood police where the population lives. How does the Council of State relate to these investigations and claims?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1226	I think the representative of the bigotry refers to numbers that are old, which are out of date, in the sense that new numbers have come since that time. Then it's important for me to refer to the police's own recent employee survey, which shows that a majority of the police believe in the reform, they believe in better services for the citizens. The study shows that 89 pst. is proud to work in the police, that 83 pst. Is well satisfied with the job, and that three out of four believe they will continue to work in the police in two years. It is a fact that in the year that has been, 2017, there has been a lot of criticism and many allegations, especially from the Center Party, that have been made to shame. The police have increased their confidence during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1233	The fact that the police are proud of the job is great, but it doesn't say anything about the near-police reform, as you call it, actually is a near-police reform. Several times it has been called a untrustworthy reform – rightly so. It's been called a remote police reform, because it centralizes the police away from people. What the Minister of Justice says is not consistent with signals from others. Even the Minister of Justice's own departmental council has said that police reform is underfunded, and it contains target conflicts by saying that one should have a close police force while reducing the number of officers' offices, and he has also predicted that the problems of reform will increase in the future. It is recently reproduced in Stat & Styrning on October 12, 2017. Does the Minister of Justice agree with the Council of Ministers? And what will the Minister of Justice possibly do to prevent the problems of reform from increasing in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1240	In the past, I have been very clear in this very Chamber that I do not share the wording that has been assigned to my Ministerial Council. There is also no correct representation of the situation and in the context of these opinions. What is important for me to stress, on the other hand, is that the claims made by the Central Party throughout 2017 that they have continued to try to make today, in 2018, are not correct. We have a historic structure of Norwegian police. 3.36 B.C.E. We have introduced Norwegian police under this government – new, fresh funds. We're building up the police force. We are reaching the target of two police service women and men by a thousand before 2020. So we deliver. Only in 2017 did we increase the number of police personnel, mainly in the districts, by 533. There is in itself a clear indication of the exact opposite of what the representative claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1247	The ordinary questionnaire is thus at the end of the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-10.ana.ud104e1261	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
