ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e36	Honourable co-representatives! Former depositor Gunnar Vada passed away on 14 June, 91 years old. Vada represented Nord-Trøndelag and Right of the Stortinget from 1977 to 1985 and was a member of the Agriculture Committee for both periods. From 1981 he was also the Right Fractional Leader. In the years 1985–86 he met firmly in Wenche Frogn Selläg's time as State Council, was a member of the Transport Committee and then met regularly as an alternate until 1989. At the first direct election to the county in 1975, Vada was elected to the county council in Nord-Trøndelag and was the first period of the right group leader. Two years later, he was the first Right-Representative elected as a Depositary of the Nord-Trøndelag County, then on a common list of the Christian People's Party. At the election in 1981, Vada was historically elected by being the first Right-Representative on a pure Right-List in the North-Tronde Team and with a result that made the Right to the county's second largest party in that election. He was a member of the Board of Directors of the Memorial of Norway in 1914 from the Norwegian emigration people in North America. Gunnar Vada was educated agronomist from Norway's agricultural high school. In the years 1960-1977 he was a county sagronomist in livestock farming in the North Trøndelag. He ran for 30 years the family farm Hjellan in Beitstad and for nearly ten years also his wife's family farm Ryssdal, in Gloppen. In addition, he was associated with the County Agriculture Office in Nord-Trøndelag, among others. as project manager for rural development and head of business development, until retirement. He also participated in a number of professional samples in the agricultural field. In 1993 he received the King's Medal of Merit for his efforts in Norwegian society. Gunnar Vada was the vice president of the North Trøndelag Right 1970–1975 and the chairman of Steinkjer Right 1972–1974. On his older days he led the work of establishing the Nord-Trøndelag Senior-Hørre and was the first leader of the association from 2011 to 2012. In Steinkjer Right he was appointed an honorary member in 2017. We bring peace to Gunnar Vada's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e63	Representatives Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Morten Wold, Lise Christoffersen, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Margunn Ebbesen, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, Espen Barth Eide, Hadia Tajik, Cecilie Myrseth and Mari Holm Lønseth, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The former temporary deputy representative of Akershus County, Sheida Sangtarash, has again taken up his seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Akershus County: Mani Hussaini For the Hordaland County: Idun Kristine Away For the Rogaland County: Tom Kalsås Two permit applications are available: by the Central Party Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik from 16 October onwards and until further notice by the Socialist Left Party Group on sick leave for the representative of Mona Fagerås from 16 October onwards and until further notice, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Martha Tärud For the Nordic counties: Marius Meisfjord Jösevold
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e157	Martha Tærud and Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e168	The representative, Tuva Moflag, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e173	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Kjerkol, Tellef Inge Mørland, Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen, Tore Hagebakken and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to investigate and introduce quality requirements for elderly care in Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e179	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 3 is dealt with on the basis of case No. 1 and that there is subsequently a vote on these cases, before case No. 2 is taken up for treatment. – There have been no objections to the President’s proposal, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e199	No one has asked for the floor. The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e7898	The background of the Riksrevision investigation was – and I quote: ‘Publicity about the work of the administration is important in a democracy. Paragraph 100 of the Constitution provides for the right of access to national documents and obliges the authorities to ‘ facilitate an open and informed public conversation’. It shall allow all parties to check the procedure and participate in democratic processes. This assumes that documents are archived and recorded. Good record-keeping and information management also contribute to efficient operation.’ That's what the Riksrevision said. And what did the Riksrevision find? First, the lack of record-keeping in several departments and state establishments. Then there was criticism of the way the demand for transparency was dealt with – here it was potential for improvement, said the National Auditor. The third point was about incomplete archiving and incorrect record-keeping in important individual cases, and the fourth point was about the fact that prior withdrawal of documents is used more frequently than intended, even without a legally sustainable basis. The last point was that the assessments made to determine transparency often fail, and that the requirement for continuous reporting is not met. This is serious finding. The Archives are supervised by the Archives. In 2017, 200 crimes were detected. Kjetil Rithaug, Director of the Department of Documentation Management at the Swedish Archives Agency, said in April this year: ‘We’re talking about an information and rights bomb waiting to be detonated.’ The committee in which I sit is responsible for child protection. The archives play a vital role in the lives of many children and families. Missing documentation or archiving may have consequences. It may be that the children are given the wrong measures, that cases remain because the importance of the case has not been well documented, and it may be about complaints that are not implemented because what has been done by measures has not been well documented and on what basis the measures were put into effect. So good documentation practices are about our everyday lives, and especially about the everyday lives of those who need the community the most. It's when we're most vulnerable that we need trust in good governance, whether it's the nation, or it's the individual. Good archiving and documentation practices are about individual people's meetings with the state, it's about our community, and it's about the security of democracy. This is important for individuals – too small and large in our country. Archiving and documentation has a long history in Norway. It is said that it was in Bergen it started, as far back as the middle of the 1700s, when the king of Copenhagen suspected that the taxes were not collected correctly. He would have documented that what he said became practice. Since then, archiving has changed, and we have been given the transparency and transparency provisions of the Constitution and the Public Health Act. These, and other laws, must ensure living democracy. The people should be able to follow in what power does. Through transparency and good record-keeping and documentation, the principles of the rule of law shall be complied with. As regards legal certainty, people must be sure that there is equality of law, that consequences are predictable, and that we have rules that guarantee privacy and individuals when the public meets the administration. Sintef reviewed the complaints of Navs and the Social Security Court in 2016 and wrote that the lack of evidence led to wrong decisions in cases. Development Centre for Hospital Hospitals, in Troms, wrote in a 2016 report that there is ‘a major need for improvements in several areas related to the documentation of healthcare in electronic patient records’. The report also pointed out that technical infrastructure did not support the needs of practice. There is also a lack of evidence in several patient ombudsman reports. So good archival practice and documentation is about everyday life for many. As far as democracy is concerned, the people must be able to control power. People should have confidence that those who rule do what they have told them to do, and that the administration is open, so that one can freely discuss the way the government exercises its power. There is also a question of democracy as to whether the State adequately facilitates transparency and transparency. Archiving and documentation are also important from a historical perspective. Today, we know of abuses in children's homes, in educational institutions, in mental hospitals, in prisons and in other totalitarian institutions. They have become known because it was documented what happened. Often they became known in retrospect, and one can ask himself the question: What will afterwards reveal the forgotten and hidden offenses of any time? Therefore, archiving and documentation is not just something to document what has happened, but it should live in time and time. Norwegian Archiving Council is concerned with what they call archivising, from a matter or a relationship arises, which is to be archived. They point out, as others I have also mentioned earlier, that there is a misunderstanding between the requirement for documentation in our digital age and the digital programs used. The National Audit Office also points out that the archival systems are not user-friendly and that there is one reason for lack of archiving. They also refer to the Archive Law Committee, which will deliver its report on 1 March 2019. They point to the need to shift responsibility for individual assessments to systems and structures, and they consider that criminal responses should be considered for breach of archive law and the public. And so when I say "they" in the last two sentences, it's the Board of Archives. The press is the extended arm of every person and manages the Constitutional Law § 100 to follow negotiations in court meetings and elected bodies. The role of the press as free and independent is crucial in a free and living democracy. In the ‘Such prevents the transparency’ of the Press Public Service Committee, there was strong criticism, in particular by the Ministry of Justice and Defence, for lack of transparency and documentation practices. The Press Association has issued recommendations on transparency to municipalities. As the Council of State also knows, the press is very critical that calendar entries are proposed except from transparency. They also call for a better and less cumbersome complaint mechanism. As the article shows, I am concerned about the practice of archiving, document registration and transparency. Reports and supervision show that there is extensive work to be done. The reason why we have this situation can be linked to knowledge and competence, management culture and practice, and as described by the National Audit Office as one of the main reasons, namely low-user archival systems. The rapid change from material to digital communication is also a contributing factor in our situation. In the public debate, there have also been views that it should have been the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation that had full responsibility for the Archiving Act, and not the Ministry of Culture, because it is more about government than about culture, believes, among other things. The Board of Archives. I hope that the Council of States can give us some feedback today as to whether the Council of States agrees that keeping records in order and complying with the Constitutional Law is also about the rights of the small man towards the state. I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on the proposal to move the administration of cultural law to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation instead of having it in the Ministry of Culture. I would also like to hear whether the Council of State will ensure that we have a more holistic practice and will take the initiative to mention archiving requirements in the various propositions presented to the Stortinget, as well as in the relevant regulations prepared by the government. That is what I hope, in general, that this debate can contribute to. I know there is a lot of work going on in the department in this area, and that has been for a long time, but I am attending the Council of State's response.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e7953	Let me first thank the interpellant for promoting this interpellant, which is important, and which deserves attention. It's about our common memory, about the recovery of and effective access to documentation, and it's about democratic transparency. It is true that Documents 3:10 for 2016-2017, the National Audit Office’s investigation into archiving and transparency in government, demonstrate significant weaknesses in parts of government in both archiving, record keeping and practice of the different provisions of the Public Prosecutor’s Act. It is an administrative policy challenge that requires a broad approach. I would like to stress that publicity about the work of the administration is a prerequisite for the high trust we have in Norwegian democracy. Paragraph 100 of the Constitution establishes the right of access to national documents and obliges the authorities to facilitate an open and informed public conversation. The Public Relations Act shall ensure trust and transparency in the administration. The OECD has pointed out that trust is a driver of efficient management and economic development, and that is an objective of the success of the public sector. Norwegian government is also high in international comparisons of trust. The OECD Gallup World Poll finds that the Nordics’ confidence in national authorities is among the highest in the OECD and that the level has remained almost unchanged in the last ten years. Few countries have legislated for such an extensive right of access to documents as Norway has, and with the regulatory electronic search solution Norway is also in the first place in making public journals available on the Internet to all. The archiving and record-keeping of documents is a fundamental prerequisite for transparency in the work of the administration. However, the transition to electronic processing has fundamentally changed the way in which information is produced, stored and exchanged. Therefore, much of the information provided by establishments is not captured by traditional archive solutions. I would like to stress that I am concerned about following up the recommendations of the National Audit Office. The work that is now either under way or planned will respond to the challenges identified in the National Audit Office’s study. Several different measures are required to follow up the criticism and to improve compliance with the laws and regulations on record-keeping, archiving and transparency. I want to stress the importance of there being a culture of transparency in administration. It assumes that political and administrative management has a conscious and positive relationship with the principle of disclosure. It is important to stress that it is the individual administrative body itself that is responsible for complying with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to proper record-keeping, archiving and disclosure. This is an understanding of the sector principle on which the further follow-up work in this area is carried out by me and the other government councils. Measures are planned, including: in the form of appropriate training, to facilitate the practice of record-keeping, transparency and record-keeping by administrative staff. Something has been started, while other plans require better coordination between different departments. Then it is the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Culture that are responsible for public law and the archival law, respectively. Proposals for changes to public law have been at the consultation stage, and the response deadline to the Ministry of Justice and Defence was at the beginning of September 2018. The Ministry of Culture has set up a body for an overall revision of the Archive Act, with a deadline of 1 March 2019. The selection shall include, inter alia: assess which documents are to be archived and which establishments should be subject to the record-keeping obligation. The selection shall also assess the appropriateness of the current regulation of the record-keeping obligation. In its study on archiving and transparency in state administration, the National Audit Office recommended that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, take the initiative to develop guidance material to improve archival practices in government administration. In the light of this recommendation, the Swedish Archives Agency has been mandated by the Ministry of Culture to develop guidance material on the content of the record-keeping and record-keeping obligations, as set out in the Archive Act and the Archive Regulation. The guidance material will have a content to be used for different types of guidance solutions and training in the record-keeping and record-keeping obligations. The Archives shall, in cooperation with the Directorate for Administration and ICT, Diffi, ensure that the content of the guidance material can be used in an e-learning programme. The Archives has also updated their guides. In addition, the Arkivverket has carried out user-oriented monitoring in the departments to identify what is needed to make it easier for case handlers and heads of departments to record and archive under law and regulations. Based on the findings they have made in the survey, the Swedish Archives Agency will also implement other measures that will help to ensure that archiving is properly carried out. It is such that the Swedish Archives Agency will also produce and test supervisors and training materials so that they can be used from the second half of 2019. In the last year, the Swedish Archives Agency has also developed a new approach to the supervision of public sector archival work. The methodology focuses more on electronic archives and computer systems, where the risk of loss is considered to be the highest. Furthermore, the Archives are in the process of increasing the number of supervision, and the selection of activities is based on a risk assessment that includes findings from the annual archive statistics. In order to facilitate the implementation of the principle of public disclosure in the administration, Divi has developed a better electronic search solution. It was put into use by the State establishments covered by the Public Regulation in February 2018. The EU Transparency provides better and more effective transparency functions and facilitates the publication of documents on the Internet where appropriate. It comes as an addition to the publication of public journals. Public electronic mail journal, now eInsyn, has received considerable international attention since its launch in 2010 and received its Best Practice Certificate in 2011 EPSA, European Public Sector Award. In 2017, Divi was also invited to the World Congress for Archiving in Mexico City, where the search solution was highlighted as a role model for transparency in administration and access to information for citizens. Oslo Municipality has been involved in the development of the new eInsyn solution and launched the publication platform in August 2018. Divi has also developed a common integration point for e-transmission. It makes it possible to send and receive documents electronically between different types of public sector case and archive systems in a simple, coordinated and secure manner. In 2018, the roll-out of the solution started, with the objective that 80 state enterprises should have implemented the joint solution by the end of the year. At the same time, the solution is further developed to communicate with established solutions for the municipal sector. It contributes to better digital cross-sectoral interaction. The e-transmission integration point now also supports sending to private enterprises, and the piloting of sending documents to residents is currently ongoing. By the end of 2019, the objective is for more than 120 State establishments to use the solution for their message exchange. The solution contributes to time savings, reduced costs, safer document exchange and higher levels of record keeping and archiving. So far about the state in general -- let me end up also saying a few words about the departments: The Ministry shall acquire a new common system of action and archives. This work is ongoing, and in this context it is also an aim to ensure a level playing field in the cross-ministerial system of cases and archives. As part of the development of better and more efficient administrative services in the departments, a basic decision has been taken to establish new joint services for archives and document management in the Departments’ Security and Service Organisation (DSS). For the first time, this includes the standardisation of some process and archive processes and the automation of services such as: are linked to e-Incident and publicity. It implies that several tasks currently carried out by each Ministry and the Office of the Prime Minister are to be provided as new joint services from the DSS. It will contribute to legal certainty, transparency, non-discrimination and predictability, in line with the National Audit Office’s report. There is therefore a multi-site effort to ensure transparency, better practices and greater equality in archive practices than today, and I have great faith that they will have a good effect once they are implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e8004	Thank you to the Council of State for the answer, which was a list of what is being done. It's clear that there's a lot of work done in this area, and the state and the government are taking it seriously. I just want to mention two other things that have come up in the contact I have had with people who are doing archives. One is the fagroup Archive in the Trade Union, which is part of the LO, which points to intercommunal cooperation schemes that do not have a record-keeping and documentation obligation. We see the emergence of intercommunal solutions today – it happens in a lot of municipalities – and it can be a big challenge to get a sufficient overview and good archiving, as I have learned that it is called in the professional language. They also point out that there are challenges with the long-term storage of electronic archive material both in the municipal and county sectors. Governments mentioned integration solutions and the transition to electronic ones, but if she could also say a little about the challenge of long-term storage, that would have been good. I would like to refer to a journalist in the fatherland friend of Tarjei Leer-Salvesen, who published an article on a desire for transparency related to a document in a municipality a few years ago. It took both winter and spring, and the matter was sent back and forth between different departments because of questions of stability and instability, and about who would answer and so on. When the decision was finally taken, the document was deleted. Leer-Salvesen was given support to the request for transparency at the end, but then there was no document to be made available. The present appeal system is problematic through, for example: this Article. The appeal procedure consists of the administrative bodies and the state and the government in full, while some are now using the Civil Ombudsman as a complaint body and are being supported there. It is said that there will be a solution that many people use instead of using the ordinary appeal procedure. If the Council of State could also say a little about the right of appeal and the appeal procedure, it would have been good. It has also been mentioned in this public space debate with criminal liability, either for individuals or for systems that do not comply with the documentary obligation. Today, there is guidance and supervisory reports, but there is no possibility of penalties for these infringements. So what I want the Council of State to say a little about are the intercommunal solutions, the remedies and penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e8019	Intermunicipal cooperation is very widespread. I guess they're so common that we're missing an overview of all of them. They definitely have some dilemmas about themselves. I understand that many small municipalities work together to get solutions, including: in this field. It may have a lot to do, but it has some dilemmas. File and record keeping can definitely be one of them, so this is something we have to look at. I am, as the representative is sure to hear, sceptical about a good part of intercommunal cooperation because it moves decisions out of democratic forums, where the inhabitants have both insight and control, and into corporate formations. This is something I'm going to follow up, and as we look at. I don't know how widespread cooperation in this area is, I guess I just have to admit that. As far as storage over time is concerned, it is such that development works for us. They are constantly developing away, and I have now presented new electronic solutions that will, of course, make it easier and safer to keep documents over time. In the past, this has been extremely space-intensive, and many municipalities – and the public sector in general – have, of course, been struggling to keep track of everything, but we will find good solutions as new solutions come in place. That's where I think the time is working for us. As regards the question relating to the article of the Friend of the Fatherland, I have not read it. We have a right to appeal. We have a very clear right of appeal in the public sector. We have the rules of the Administration Act. They are for all, and they shall be used. So it is possible that more and more people choose the Civil Ombudsman, but it is true that the decision of the Civil Ombudsman is a recommendation. It is not a legal decision taken, as it is when an administrative body takes a decision. I would recommend using the legal remedies available to us and which we can provide guidance on, to the extent that you need it in the municipal, county and state sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e8028	I will also be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising a very important issue. It is not the first time that Stortinget discusses the archiving of important documentation for the present and afterlife. We may not think so much about the importance of good archiving practices on a daily basis, but the interpellant points to important concerns such as democracy, legal certainty, transparency and trust, non-discrimination and transparency. In my post, I would like to take as my starting point something that I constantly experience away, through the work of the Grandfather's Justice Board. We have a very important task on behalf of the Stortinget, namely to manage the arrangements we have to provide compensation for people who have come in particularly unfortunate situations with the public – it is a lack of schooling, a child protection that did not react quickly enough to suspicions of care failure, violence or sexual abuse at home, in foster homes or institutions, a health care system or a police that did not respond. We have cases from people who have had life ruined because of bullying that no one did anything to stop, public agencies that have seen, but not notified, concerns messages that have remained lying. We are dealing with relatively new issues, but also issues where conditions are so far behind in time that they are not covered by more recent schemes such as patient damages or compensation for victims of violence. We will deal with issues such as: issues dealing with former orphans and tattoos — to mention something. This is bad stuff. It's often a matter of people's childhood. It's almost not to believe what kids in this country have been, is and is likely to be exposed to, often from those who are closest to them. It's about ruined lives, in many cases lives that could have been different if the public had seen more, done things differently, reacted correctly. When we pay, it can never be anything but a recognition that wrong has been committed, and that the public is blaming for not intervening. At the same time, we see that it means a lot to many to be believed – finally to be seen, to be heard. We reject some applications because we do not find that there is a basis for criticising the state or municipality. There is good evidence that many help measures have been put in place. I'm going to be careful not to make claims without having statistics about it, but in very many of the applications we reject, it's not because we don't believe what's going on about failure in various public agencies, but that stories aren't going to be documented. For example, it is missing. student folders and child protection folders, which have been mashed, lost in fire, may never have existed. According to the applicants, many authorities have been in the picture, but there are no files at all. The police may have been involved both once and twice or more, but police records for the relevant period are not searchable except manually. It's too time-consuming to search when you don't have a date to apply for. So these are often stories that both case-preparing agencies and we in the justice committee believe in. But as long as the stories can't be supported by simultaneous documentation, they're not sufficiently probable, and then we can't pay. Such issues clearly demonstrate the importance of good archiving practices in both the state and the municipality for the legal security of people. Then we can comfort ourselves that it was. Now it's better. Now we have digital archives. Things are well preserved for the afterlife. But the Riksrevision has shown through its studies that there is still a lot of failure. On 4 September this year, I was visiting the State Archives and Intermunicipal archives at Kongsberg. That's where I heard the exact same thing. Poor routines and lack of purchasing skills mean that a lot of public digital information is about to be lost. Many people think electronic storage is safe, but it's wrong, according to professionals. Data over the last 10–15 years are at risk of disappearing, for example: in the case of professional systems for the protection of children, the social service and the PPT. The challenges related to community mergers were specifically mentioned. As state archivist Kjetil rithaug wrote in an article already in 2014: ‘However, this failure sin, which includes paper archives, is quite easy to deal with in retrospect. It takes will, some money, real professionals, some time and some luck." The flap means that the material is picked up from the cellars, etc. before it is destroyed. But the really big threat is the electronic archives that have grown up in recent decades. They don't survive, as he says, 50 years in a cellar with some luck. They'll be gone forever. It's scary, it undermines people's legal certainty. Something has to be done about it now, before it's too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e8046	Everyone has the right to influence public policies — then citizens need to know how the public sector works, and what is happening in the ministries and in other state administrations. This is what the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation's website says about why transparency in administration is so important. I think few disagree. In Kari Henriksen's interpellation, she asks in the context of the Riksrevision's criticism of the administration's archival practice what is done to ensure the transparency culture we demand. The National Audit Office is critical to the lack of transparency culture in its investigations into the archiving and transparency of state administration, which were dealt with in the Stortinget in January. ‘The archiving in several departments and state establishments is deficient, and this has negative consequences for the real transparency potential’, it says. The Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation is responsible for government management policies and must therefore respond to the lack of follow-up to the transparency culture that the government has as its overall objective. At the same time, each department has a separate responsibility for archiving, record-keeping and the processing of transparency requirements in its own activities. So the National Audit Office says that archiving in several departments and state establishments is deficient, and that this has negative consequences for transparency. That is not good, and there is a reference to the lack of record-keeping and incorrect reporting that weakens public awareness and thus the possibility of transparency and debate on important issues. ‘The continuing record keeping requirement is essentially not met’, says the Riksrevision. It also states that the ex ante exemption from transparency is used to a far greater extent than envisaged and often lacks a legally sustainable basis. Now we've heard some examples of both. During the deliberations of the Riksrevision report, the Committee endorsed the report’s recommendations for action. Here, the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation is asked to take the initiative to put the archive service on the agenda through internal training and the introduction of control mechanisms, and to take action to reduce average reporting time. Recommendations were also made on actions in areas under the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The Directorate of Administration and ICT, Divi, is central to the follow-up work of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Among the measures highlighted in the decision of the Control and Constitutional Committee on the Riksrevision report is the development of training provision for the administration by diffi and the development of a new public electronic postal record. New records must already be in use. Developing standard solutions through digitisation will help all departments and other government administrations develop more equivalent archival practices. It will, of course, also provide a better opportunity for transparency. I see that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on its websites says that this year’s government budget is giving ‘the greatest commitment to digitisation at times’. I do not know to what extent the bets respond to the challenges that the Riksrevision and the Stortinget have addressed in terms of transparency requirements in the public administration. The digitisation effort is likely to benefit in particular Nav and the health sector. It is very good in itself, but to what extent the initiative also meets the recommendations of the Stortinge in the handling of the Riksrevision report are interesting. The minister said a lot about this instead, but it might be nice to hear if there are any concrete means that are set aside from that pot. Divi has been among the winners of the State budget for the last few years and receives an increase of 50 million. in the draft budget for next year. It should allow for the follow-up of the recommendations made by the Stortinget. I want to thank the interpellant, Henriksen, for addressing an important topic. Management practices in the field of record-keeping and record-keeping are essential to ensure transparency and the culture of transparency that we believe should apply to public administration. The Minister for Local Affairs and Modernisation has overall responsibility for the development of good guidelines and measures to ensure this culture of transparency, and then each department has responsibility for compliance with the guidelines. But the National Audit Office's investigation of archiving and transparency in state administration shows that we still have a way to go, so this requires extra effort. I would like to congratulate the department on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e8069	Thank you to the Council of State and colleagues for a good debate, which highlights the importance of this issue. The Council of State was committed to this with confidence, that we are cutting high trust, and one of the most central things in a democratic civil society is that there is a high level of trust between people. The challenge — we see it in Europe, and we see trends in Norway — is that trust is weakened in weak groups, and it is weak groups that are particularly important as a target group to ensure both archive practice and documentation. So I would point out that it's also about a vulnerable nation. We have a case in the control committee now dealing with terrorism security in Norway, about what has been done and not done. It is clear that trust in central government is also significant here, if one does not find good evidence, or if the causal relationship is not clarified. This applies both to the treatment of individuals and to the treatment of national tasks. The Council of State was concerned that this was a cross-ministerial responsibility. When this government joined, they said that security and preparedness were such an important area that they would take extra control of it in the Prime Minister's office. There are challenges with cross-ministerial responsibility and the sectoral principle of administration. There is no easy solution to this, but I believe that one has to raise the issue of archiving as a large and comprehensive field of action, which needs stronger governance and clearer responsibilities. As regards access to justice, some of the objections raised are precisely that it takes a long time and that one should complain to the body that may initially have made a mistake. Then it's about the trial period, and then it's sent. I have understood the press's wish that you should have a central right to appeal, so that you avoid the length of the procedure. So I hope that the Council of State can take it along, and possibly engage in dialogue with the press to perhaps find simple solutions on how this can be handled in a better way. As I said before, I think the work the government is doing is good, and I acknowledge it, but we agree in this room that it does not work well enough today, and then we have to ask ourselves if it does enough. It is the municipal minister who has the overall responsibility for this, and I ask the municipal minister to assess whether a need for a more powerful approach and a wider control of archive practices and documentation practices at all levels of government and in all departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e8082	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant and thank you for a good debate on an important topic, on which I feel that we are in common is important. I have now explained a number of measures that have been taken. Then there are planned actions to be launched. It requires coordination, and it is absolutely right that it is challenging. Norway has a very, very large public sector. We have three levels of government. We have a municipal autonomy. We also need to respect that we still have 422 municipalities, which are too many in my opinion, but that also means that we have 422 ways to do it. Then I want to remind you, because you must not forget when you sit in central Oslo, that it is demanding for the municipalities to handle this. I have been a local politician in a large municipality, which used many years' work in the handling of complaints, in dealing with requests for transparency, etc., etc. For small municipalities, of course, this is extra demanding, and that's why you've got this intercommunal cooperation, which is definitely having some disadvantages. But there is a resource situation that we also have to consider, given that the municipalities have very many and demanding tasks. And then we're going to spend $1.7 billion on the state budget. on ICT investment, on digitisation. I think it's very good. Of course, it is also about this field. Not least in Health Platform Mid-Norway, it's about securing journalism and much better systems than what we have today. As far as complaint handling is concerned, I have a feeling that sometimes when you see a problem, you think you need to have central supervision, central control and a central complaint body. I believe we have good complaint rules in Norway, and we receive complaints. So you could say that the complaint handling time is too long. Well, there are rules for handling complaints, too, but it is not that you can treat all requests of transparency in the same way. It requires special research on each case in some areas, although I think the public sector is starting to get better and better as you get experience with it. I believe that the best thing we can do is to give good guidance, so that everyone actually has knowledge of the rights of appeal and the right to complain, and then of course we have to take it seriously and deal with the complaints in a proper and correct manner and in as short a time as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-16.ana.ud500e8095	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
