ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e88	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Solveig Schytz, now takes the seat. The request for the leave of the representative of Siv Mossleth from 6 June to 8 June to take part in the meeting of the World Political Leaders in Lithuania as a representative of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly shall be submitted by the Central Party. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, is called to meet on the 6th and 7th of June.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e113	The representative, Kristian Torve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e118	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Henriksen, Rigmor Aasrud, Nina Sandberg, Arild Grande and myself, I would like to promote a proposal by a representative for better organisation for top athletes and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e123	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e143	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 10 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e152	I am delighted to present the position of the Education and Research Committee on the prohibition of the use of face-to-face clothing in kindergartens and educational situations. The background to the case is several rounds in the Storting up over the years when a ban on cans and nicotine has been discussed in the public space. Only in 2016 did the Stortinget form a majority in order to introduce a national ban on burka and nikab in schools and in higher education. The government’s legislative proposal has now been based on Storting’s reasoning that facial clothing is a barrier to good communication and interaction, and that a ban on face-to-face clothing is essential for good learning outcomes. The Committee therefore takes the view that the ban should apply to kindergartens, kindergartens, secondary schools, colleges, universities, national colleges, apprentices, apprentices and practical candidates, and that the ban should also apply to the introduction programme and training of new entrants to the municipalities. Municipalities and county councils must now follow this up and review the regulations governing schools and make rules for reactions to those acting contrary to the prohibition. So the municipalities here will have the opportunity to adopt a ban at local level with a wider scope than is now the case at national level. Reaction forms may be deportation or termination, but it is underlined that efforts must be made through dialogue first. No comprehensive comments have been submitted in the case. I therefore believe that it is a broad support for the proposal, and I hereby present the Committee's position. This is a matter the Progress Party has raised on a number of occasions. The Progress Party wants a total ban on burka and nikab in the public space. We suggested it in this room for the first time in 2003, and there have never been any parties that have supported us in this. Burka and nikab are women’s oppressive garments that prevent integration, which prevent women from living a free life, as we in Norway take for granted. I am therefore pleased that we are now getting a ban on burka in educational situations. It would never have happened if the progress party had not been pressurised on this matter. So we are now the first country in the Nordic region to introduce a ban on burka and nikab, and we are introducing this on the same date as we are imposing a ban in our neighbouring country Denmark. The progress party would go further. We recognize it. But we also recognize that we have not received a majority for that. So now we want to follow up this national ban in the municipalities. There will be an opportunity for municipalities to adopt a longer-term ban. We want the ban to apply to school roads, and we want it to apply to the entire school area. In recent times, the Labour Party has challenged the fact that we are not now laying down national rules on outdoor bans. I want to say that there have been some challenges around it. The University of Oslo and OsloMet have campuses all over the municipality of Oslo, and what we can define as an outdoor area for these universities is the entire municipality of Oslo. So it'll be impossible for us to enforce a ban in the out-of-school area as long as you don't have a total ban in the public space. However, primary schools have the opportunity to define a ban which will also apply to outlying areas and school roads. The Progress Party will follow up locally, and we expect support from the Workers' Party on that. The working party has also problemed this with kindergartens and suggests in this case that a ban be imposed on cans and nicotine for children and babies. I have to say I'm responding to it. I've been trying to investigate which countries and cultures in the world have burkas and nicotine for children and babies. It's nobody. Not even Saudi Arabia, which may be the world's largest country in the use of women's repressive clothing, uses cans and nicotine for children under six years of age. I would like to deal with the loose proposal from, among other things. The Progress Party, presented today, is asking the government to identify the extent of the use of cans for children and babies in Norway. I don't think we're going to see that there's going to be any situation, but if there's going to be a real problem, of course we're going to take action in view of that. I would like to take this opportunity to propose the resolution of, among other things: The party of progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e175	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e180	The working party believes it is vital for a good learning environment to see each other's faces and communicate well. We believe, of course, that it is not appropriate to distinguish between the educational situation and the non-educational situation in a school area or equivalent. It is vital for a good learning environment that you can see each other's faces throughout the open school landscape, which modern schools are. Students discuss, work together, experience, get acquainted, play together, have meetings, solve tasks together – different activities depending on the level of education they are at, whether they are students or students – they do it around the school environment, outside the classroom or auditorium. It may well be so important to see each other's face in the direct contact between people, between students, between students, between those who are at the training institutions, as when sitting at the desk or at their place in the auditorium. What's going on between them must be at least as important. The proposals made by the Workers' Party are essentially identical to those made by the Right-Fremskritsparte-Government at the hearing in 2017 after the Stortinget asked for national rules to be drawn up on a proposal from the Workers' Party and the Green Party for the Environment. For example, the Training Act is § 9-7 etc. in the draft consultation of the then Right-wing Party Government identical to that proposed by the Workers' Party in the Stortinget today. It shall not be permitted to wear face-to-face clothing in teaching, during leisure, in the field of school, on school tours and events directed by the school, when the school owner provides homework in the school leisure system, etc., the government’s draft consultation. Then you have an exception, which we also have – there may be climatic, health or pedagogical reasons for having an exception. We have basically copied the proposals that the Right Party government had at the hearing, which we agreed to, and which we thought was a good follow-up to what the Stortinget asked for in November 2016 after we had discussed our proposal here. What is important to us is that this ban applies to all communication in the school and education environment. The ban, just as in the government's proposal, is not based on the fact that Nicab, jar or lucky garments are used in the places where we fall down this principle. I live and travel daily in one of the areas in the country where Nicab and burka are used – this applies to a few people. In high school and high school, I've never seen or heard of it. The government is currently proposing a ban in high school and high school without any evidence that it is used there. We have some examples from high school -- there have been some conflicts around there -- some in colleges and some in universities. One person, mentioned in the media these days, traveled around in lucky clothes and gave lectures in schools. Otherwise, we don't have examples of it in high school or high school, as far as I know. There's consensus, as I see it, that you don't have to prove here that there have been cases in it and that school or on it and that age, but that you agree to establish this principle once and for all, so that you have something to deal with in the future. I believe that it is better to establish such a principle when few are affected by it, that there will be less conflict around it, and that there will be a basis for future developments no matter which way it should go. We believe that national rules are needed, that we should not be able to go back and say that this should be decided by each municipality, as the representative of the Progress Party now said in its statement. I remember the argument of the Progress Party when it came to a beggar ban, where there was some suggestion that each municipality should decide. They were very hard on the fact that there had to be national rules, so there was no conflict in each municipality. The principles here are based on, as they did when we first addressed this in the Storting, in 2014, that the European Court of Human Rights said that for the sake of human integration and good communication, it is not contrary to European human rights to impose a ban on lucky garments. It was based on proposals in France, etc. There are several things to consider in the debate here, but for our part it is important that we now take a responsibility here at Stortinget. It is difficult to understand the explanation of the Progress Party that you are in favour of a total ban, but not for the best possible ban in school. It's very hard to understand. I will deal with the proposals that the Labour Party has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e199	The representative Jan Boehler has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e204	This is an important principleal debate. Integration is primarily about speaking the language, obtaining education and work and becoming good, law-abiding citizens and taxpayers. Whoever you marry, what you believe in, and what kind of clothes you wear, is basically secondary. Nicab, jars, and other lucky garments, however, are examples of garments that hide all or almost the entire face. It makes communication in a workplace, in a kindergarten and in the public domain impossible. It is difficult to identify the person concerned. There are garments that help exclude people from participating in the democratic institutions we have in common. Tolerance for differences is essential, but we must at the same time ensure that all people have equal participation and equal opportunities, and that as a society we have some basic common values and rules of play as a glue. Kindergartens shall be good teaching places and meeting places. It is vital for children to have open and good communication with safe adults. That is why it is good that the government is proposing these changes to the law today. We need to balance the freedom to choose what you want to go with, and the need for open and learning institutions, with opportunities to communicate with each other. I am voting for the Workers' Party in this matter. I understand that the Labour Party has launched a competition to act as strictly as possible in immigration and integration policy. The keyword is actually to be as strict as possible, because I wish that the work in the Workers' Party resulted in something other than purely symbolic battles, and that today, too, the hearings that this case has received had been evaluated and taken seriously. One example is children in kindergarten: the small children in kindergarten should not, of course, be clothed with lucky clothes such as nicab and burka, which impair their ability to play, become acquainted with other children and have a relationship and communication with adults. However, unlike the use of lucky clothes for adults — adults who have both the right and the ability to work in school, kindergarten and higher education institutions — there are no examples of young children in kindergarten today using nicab or burka. Of course, we must prevent this from happening, but there should be examples of a real problem for the Workers' Party to propose it here today. I would like to challenge the Education Section of the Workers' Party, and perhaps in particular the fractional leader, the representative Henriksen, to mention one kindergarten where lucky clothes for children have been a real problem. Can they mention a religious religious community or a culture in which young children are to be clothed with heroic garments? I think that – unfortunately for this matter – is actually not a real issue. Transparency and communication are important common values in Norwegian society and our common social institutions. That's why it's good for us today to adopt legislative changes that say clearly from now on that there are some basic values that we're going to have in the open, common space and in our community institutions, such as kindergartens, schools and higher education. It's a very good change of laws that comes here today, and we're going to be happy that we're now getting this passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e221	There is reason to rejoice that a theme that has often created as big a debate as this topic, today brings together such a broad majority in the United Kingdom. I think it's worth taking along, because there's been a lot of rounds and discussions on this issue, but today the committee is very much together. I do not think that the differences between the majority and the Labour Party are very different either. We all agree on one basic thing: to create a common basic principle for Norwegian school that, in educational situations and in everyday school life, you should not be able to cover your face in whole or in part in such a way that you do not see each other's faces. It is a very good principle – which has been discussed by several speakers – and I think that a balanced solution has been found, which I think will also be possible to practice in a reasonable way. It is clear that it is a matter of weighing the matter up and saying that there should be prohibition not only in educational situations and professional situations related to education but also on campus. It's a balance. But from the centre party we think enough that starting to go after and punish people who cover their faces in the campus area, or employees who do it outside the kindergarten area, that's going too far. That's why we're happy with the balanced solution that the government has come up with, and believe that it can be a solution that can also stand well in the future. I am a little surprised that the Right here chooses to attack the Workers' Party, when at the same time you hear the case rapporteur say in posts that the Advance Party would go beyond its own government and its own cooperation parties. But the Progress Party is no longer going. The party of progress is not going one step further today. The Progress Party shall vote by a majority. The rapporteur says that it is because they acknowledge that they have not received a majority. But that's remarkable, because the Progress Party is a part of the majority today. It's not like the Progress Party can stand aside from what's happening here today, and say they would do something else. The Progress Party is doing what they are doing today, along with the majority. They're going to vote in favour of the proposal that gets a majority. I think that is reasonable for the Progress Party, and it is good for those proposals to have a majority. The centre party is well satisfied with what will result from this treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e232	SV believes that open and good communication is a fundamental prerequisite for good education. A lucky face of the teacher can be a barrier to learning and a good and inclusive learning environment in the educational situation. However, I would like to object that we will not support the government's bill on a national ban on face-to-face clothing for students and students. This is because we have received strong signals that the current legislation is actually working. Equal rights to education are strong in Norwegian society, and SV will also refer to the right to education enshrined in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The right to education was established for the first time in the 1948 UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. A number of successive conventions and declarations strengthen and uphold this right. The fact that education for all is a human right means that ethnicity, language, gender, religion, political opinion, national or social origin, property or other status shall not preclude education. From a human rights perspective, the authorities of each country are responsible for realising this right to education. The institutions that have imposed local bans report that facial clothing among students and employees is a minimal problem — a minimal problem — and that in most cases it is solved through dialogue. I therefore say here and now that SV will not support the government's bill to include a national ban on face-to-face clothing for students and students. Schools and educational institutions can handle this locally where there is a problem and use dialogue as a tool rather than a prohibition. In this context, I would like to refer to the hearing opinion of the Norwegian student organisation. They believe that today the majority will adopt something that is not in line with the principle of equal rights to education. I also want to refer to the hearing replies from the educational institutions, which say, first of all, that this is almost not a problem per day, and, second, that the institutions in dialogue with the students are perfectly capable of finding good local action through dialogue with the individual. Today’s legislation thus opens up local assessments and dialogue, and SV believes that this would be the best option in the future. I would like to stress that this does not conflict with the struggle for women's right to live free lives. The right to education strengthens the opportunities for women to participate in society, in the labour market and to be independent and independent. But this is not the only instrument. Efforts towards women's suppression and increased equality must be reinforced. The introduction of a national ban on face-to-face clothing does not solve the problem of women in Norway today being subjected to negative social control and honor-related violence. In this context, I would like to refer to the SV's 21 proposals for negative social control and honour-related violence, which were recently dealt with in this Chamber. I would like to mention in particular the importance of prevention, and that people, often young women, who are exposed to violence and threats and yet have to break up with their families, get the help they need. Unfortunately, here we have a little bit left before we can say we're quite satisfied. I am therefore addressing the SV's proposal on the occasion of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e253	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e258	In a liberal society, the individual’s view of life is a personal matter, and tolerance and respect for the choices and opinions of others are of course. The left defends everyone's right to believe and everyone's right to not believe. It includes the right to use religious and cultural garments or to use religious symbols in public spaces. Therefore, we believe that the use of such garments and symbols should be very careful to be regulated through state bans, as it represents an intervention in the individual's freedom of belief and expression. However, in some situations there are other needs that are also important and that justify restrictions on the individual’s freedom. In many professions, for example: restrictions on the use of religious symbols and garments for practical but also symbolic purposes. From time to time, we have, among other things, had a debate on the use of hijab in the police, where it was just the symbolic importance of the garment that was in focus, and where it was concluded that there was no desire to open this up, primarily in order to safeguard the neutrality of the police uniform. For a long time, there has been a debate on the use of face-to-face clothing in educational situations. Fortunately, although there is no widespread phenomenon of the use of either nikab or burka at Norwegian schools and colleges, there have been isolated situations with students who have used such clothing, where it has led to debate, and there are also some county municipalities and colleges that have introduced local bans. As the SV's representative pointed out in his statement, equal rights to education are strong in Norwegian society, and education for all is a human right. It argues that there should be restrictive rules that make it difficult for someone to take education while they can express themselves in line with their beliefs. At the same time, it is important to take into account key educational principles, what is good learning, and we also need to take into account the needs of fellow students and students. Students, students and teachers must be able to see each other's faces. I think that's obvious to everyone who's been in a learning situation. A ban on face-to-face clothing in educational and learning situations, as proposed by the government in this matter, will ensure open communication with children, students, students and also newcomers. It is crucial for a good learning environment. It is also something supported by the majority of the hearing opinions, and we believe that we have found a good balance between the consideration of a good learning environment on the one hand and the consideration of individual freedom on the other. For the Left, it has been important to include a ban to apply only in educational situations, especially when talking about universities and colleges, where students are adults. We believe that they must be able to make independent assessments of coverage outside classrooms and lecture halls. Therefore, the prohibition does not apply to breaks, free minutes, parental and staff meetings or in the areas of non-educational education. I think it is very difficult to justify such a total ban today. The left in the government thus ensures a golden middleway between as much learning as possible and integration, while at the same time preserving religious freedom. I am pleased that the majority support the government's proposal, and that there will not be a majority for the Workers' Party's proposal to go further and ban face-to-face clothing throughout school, throughout university campus and for children in kindergarten. You might think that there are only shades that separate the two proposals, as the representative Arnstad pointed out, but at least I would argue that there is quite a difference in rhetoric. The representative Boehler went hard last week against the government's proposal and called it parochial and too snowy. That's his word. It is also possible to put similar labels on the Workers' Party's proposal to ban face-to-face clothing for children in kindergartens, when to date a single child with such a garment has not been observed, nor are there any cultures that practice it. In any case, I am most disappointed by the lack of reflection of the representatives of the Workers' Party on what action such a ban is actually in freedom of religion, and that it should be an objective in itself to limit such intervention as much as possible, and only to what is strictly necessary. Legal proposals and prohibitions should be used to address real problems. A total ban can be alienating, and since it is not a real problem, it only becomes symbolism policy. To me, the Workers' Party's proposal and rhetoric, not least, appears in this matter as a desperate attempt to be strict and decisive, but since they do so by promoting symbol policies, it becomes more like a sort of powerless blow in the air. Not least, it goes across fundamental values in our society. If there are no reasons not to ban it in student leisure in the canteen, are there really any grounds for banning it elsewhere? If the aim is to protect central values in our society, such as freedom of expression, freedom of belief and democracy, it is important that we do not fight symbols that go beyond this by restricting the same freedoms.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e284	The right to practise their faith and the place of religion in public space shall be strong in Norwegian society. For the Christian People's Party, a good society is a society that has room for the whole human being – with the religious identity and the vision of life each has. Such a society does not try to push religion out of public space, but facilitates the ability of people to exercise their faith, values the importance of faith to individuals and the importance of religion to society. Real freedom of faith means, therefore, that we must accept that others think and do things that we do not like or disagree with, as long as they do not cause harm to others. Face-to-face clothing cannot therefore be banned in its entirety, in our opinion. We must combat all forms of coercion and pressure to use these plagues, but if women themselves choose to use them as part of their religious practice, this cannot be prohibited if we want a life-seeking society. That being said, there are some situations and some arenas where we are totally dependent on seeing each other, knowing each other's identity in order to communicate and achieve the purpose of these arenas. Learning situations are one example of this. Students and teachers must be able to communicate freely. Face-to-face clothing can prevent good communication and thus also learning, participation and involvement. Therefore, students and students cannot cover to the face in educational situations, in our opinion. The same must apply to employees in situations where they will not be able to carry out their duties — teaching students and students. The Christian People's Party therefore supports a ban on face-to-face clothing, as proposed in Prop. 51 L, with the limits also laid down in the bill. Some argue that this should be up to each institution, and I see some good arguments for it. But at the same time, it is important that arenas such as our educational institutions do not send out different signals or have different practices in these areas. It makes it easier for students to be briefed if they have common rules on what is happening to the different institutions, and for the institutions to know how to deal with this challenge. One also avoids stirring debates in the many municipalities, county councils or learning places. The Christian People's Party believes that the adjustments the government has made by going from the prohibition to the whole area of the educational institution and throughout the working hours, for it to apply only in the course of teaching, are good changes, supported by the Christian People's Party. There has been some debate on whether this ban should also apply to kindergarten children. There are probably very few, if any, who support the idea that small children should wear facial garments. That is why I think it is important to note that today this is not an existing problem, as far as we know. Introducing a ban on something that is not a problem will only lead to suspicion and stigmatisation of a group of parents and children. The Christian People's Party therefore does not support this and believes that the ban should be limited to the employees of the nursery, as proposed in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e297	Kindergarten, school, colleges and colleges are important common social arenas. Here, children and young people meet across backgrounds, religion, education and culture of parents. These are valuable and important arenas for learning and integration, and it is a great responsibility for us to arrest them. Our kindergartens, schools and other places of education shall be good places of teaching and meeting for all children, students, students and employees. Open and good communication between teachers, children, students and students is essential for a good learning environment and good learning outcomes. This is the starting point for government legislative proposals on a national ban on the use of face-covered clothing in kindergartens and educational situations. This matter must be based on a fundamental discussion. The case requires a thorough balance between the consideration of individual freedom and the need to ensure a good and open learning environment. I believe that we have found a good balance between these considerations. I am pleased that a total increase agrees with the intention behind the proposal. In kindergartens and in all teaching, it's important that we see each other's faces. Norway is an open society where we're used to seeing each other's faces — face to face. That should still be the case. The rules we propose will ensure good communication in educational situations, which are essential for a good learning outcomes. Equally common rules throughout the country and throughout the education process provide predictability for children, young people, employees and parents. At the same time, the national ban allows local prohibitions that go beyond what we propose. We want a ban that applies to the entire education cycle: in kindergartens, schools, colleges, colleges and universities, and in the introduction programme and training for newly arrived immigrants. Kindergartens shall help to give children a good start to life. Contact and communication between employees and children is essential for children to have good working days in which to develop and develop. Therefore, for kindergarten, the ban will apply to employees throughout their working hours. At school, the ban will apply to both pupils and employees, and the ban will apply in all situations of education. Since education can take place both within and outside the school area, the ban could also apply outside the school area. Tours organised by the school are counted, for example, as education. We also propose that face-to-face clothing be banned in the school leisure system and in homework. Teachers who have a free-minute inspection may not wear face-to-face clothing. I believe that the open communication with the students in these situations is so important that the ban should also apply at that time. For universities and colleges, the prohibition will mean that students and teachers cannot cover their faces when they are lectured or other types of education. The students' facial expressions show commitment and may be important to the lecturer, just as it may be important for students to read the lecturer's facial expressions. Learning and communication are also carried out in situations other than where employees provide instruction, such as: group work and excursions directed by the institutions. That is why we believe that the ban should also apply in such situations. But as in school, we also do not want for higher education that the ban applies in breaks and in situations without education. It's because we believe that the importance of communication and a good learning environment does not mean that we are intervening and banning coverage here. The ban will, for example: do not apply to organised self-study or to lunch breaks in the canteen or elsewhere in the area of the place of instruction. We believe that common rules are important. We need a national ban because it will give all educational establishments a clearer and more uniform regulatory approach. We suggest that the individual teaching site enforce the national ban itself. And we make it easier to enforce by clarifying the responses that employers and educational institutions can use. The most serious reaction to a student will be expulsion or exclusion. In the introduction programme and training for newly arrived immigrants under the Introduction Act, the prohibition will apply to those who teach, and to those who receive education, but also here only in the actual educational situation. I would like to thank the Committee for its good and thorough consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e327	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e332	On March 23, this year, the Council of State said that ‘it is important for us that kindergartens, schools and educational institutions are meeting places where children, students and teachers can meet face to face’ — that is, meeting places where children, students and teachers can meet face to face. It is difficult to define the school yard and the corridor from ‘meeting places’. Does that mean that the Council of State really sees that the question of seeing each other's faces is about more than just inside the classroom? Does the Council of State define meeting places at school as just inside the classroom?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e339	I think everyone acknowledges that in this case we have to make a balance and a delimitation. And that's what the government has done, partly as a consequence of the government expansion, but also on the basis of the consultation round that has been. There has been a wide-ranging consultation on this, and we have made a balance and a delineation. I think it's right that we limit it to the actual educational situation. The question of Bøhler’s reasoning is where to set the limit. Because we have a lot of meeting places in our society. We have youth clubs, we have non-governmental organisations, we have shopping centers; people meet in different places. But we have to make a delimitation, and we have to make a balance, and it goes between personal freedom and the desire for open communication, especially in educational situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e346	I thank you for your answer. I don't think the seers of Dagsrevyen realized that the council with meeting places thought it wasn't the school corridors or the school yard, which are the meeting places at the school. I saw that the representative Guri Melby in Dagbladet yesterday said that it was thanks to the Left who had got the Right and the Advance Party on a moderated proposal in relation to what was sent out at the hearing last year, which the Workers' Party fully agreed with. Is it true that this is not really the opinion of the Council of State or of the Right and the opinion of the Party of Advancement in government, but that it is the Left as a party that has led the government to move from what was proposed last year, when it was just sent out to the hearing that it should apply in minutes of absence, in university areas, in breaks, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e355	The whole point of a hearing is that you have to hear that you have to listen. So if everything that's in a letter of consultation from a department or from a government is going to be high in stone, there's no point in having a hearing. We have, and we look at that consultation round that there is a need for some adjustments. Then I am also clear that we have a government statement where there has been no doubt about what has been the clear position of the Left. I believe that what the government has proposed is a good proposal. I believe that we have found a good limit to the educational situation and a balance between personal freedom and the need for open communication. When I referred to other meeting places, it was because I have trouble seeing the boundaries of the representative of Bohemia's reasoning, because it is Bohemia who is talking in general about meeting places, and then the question is which other meeting places the Workers' Party is now going to introduce this kind of ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e364	I quoted the council when I spoke about meeting places; that's what the council said in the Day Revy. I've been talking about schoolyards and school corridors and a similar distinction between auditoriums and university premises. What I want to ask the Council of State is: when the Council of State itself agreed to consult last year on a proposal that was in force in the minutes off, in the areas of universities and educational institutions, it was obviously serious and in line with the Stortinget's unanimous position when the Stortinget asked for proposals to be made on this subject. Does the Council agree that it is wrong to present this as a symbol policy when we consider that it is actually a real problem if the nipper or jar is to hang outside the classroom, and you have to take it off and on when you go in and out of the classroom at school? I have received many letters from teachers who do not understand that you can mean this. Does the Council agree with me that it is going to be wrong to call it symbolism – that it is a real political issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e371	I don't need to characterize either one or the other. My point is that we have to make a delimitation. And I mean the delimitation that the government has made, and we have one government with one point of view in this case, is a wise delineation. Then I also have faith that good solutions will be found for this locally. There is no problem in today's school and kindergarten. But I agree with what the representative from Bohemia said in his main post, namely that it is an advantage that we can have this discussion and get the national framework in place in a situation where it is not a big problem. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e378	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e385	This case stems from a representative proposal from the Workers' Party and the Green Party from 2016 on national rules that ensure that the faces of students, students and teachers are fully visible in schools, universities and colleges. The Labour Party believes that in kindergarten and in educational institutions we should see each other's faces. Norway shall be an open society. Facial clothing prevents interaction, communication and learning. It is true that few wear face-covering garments, but there is no argument. For Stortinget is not only the legislator in this case, but Stortinget also acts as the normist. The Labour Party wants society to take a joint responsibility for setting limits and building attitudes, and the Storting is the normist, as I said. We send a clear authoritative signal with a national ban. Jan Bøhler said it right; we establish a principle. It can help prevent and create predictability. Today, training institutions themselves regulate the use of facial garments. A national ban will provide a level playing field across the country and local authorities will not decide whether or not a ban should be imposed. That is why it is right that this issue be raised to the highest elected assembly, and the majority of the population want similar practices. It is, as the representative Arnstad stressed, a broad consensus to regulate the use of thick clothing. The question is also how to design the law. The government's original consultation proposal was strongly moderated when the Left came into government, and the Workers' Party believes, in line with the representative proposal we have advanced earlier, that the general rule should be no to face coverage anywhere in the institutions. The diluted ban put forward by the government does not respond to the challenges and is difficult to implement. The law does not raise a clear limit on what is a teaching situation. What is teaching, and what is learning elsewhere? The learning environment is much more than the situation where the students sit at the desk in the classroom. It's just as important, as Jan Bøhler said, to see each other's faces and have good contact and communication when you're together elsewhere in the area. So the requirement to show your face to communicate means we have to apply to the entire learning environment. The same applies in schools and higher education, where students participate in colleges, seminars, group work, guidance, study tours, etc. The prohibition should cover the entire territory of the institution. For campers who are strongly involved in urban centres, it is necessary, in the view of the Workers' Party, to provide room for local adaptation and some flexibility in the practice of the prohibition. The Progress Party must very much propose that, but they have not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e397	Immigration and integration are demanding simply because it gives us cross paths where important and fundamental opposing positions need to find their solution to coexistence. I would like to emphasise a point I think is important in this matter, which is not only linked to the specific discussion on the balance in the school situation – it is well-lit by many of the representatives – but to the need for tightening and clarification when we are to impose restrictions and restrictions, because they should also be communicated and understood by those who do not necessarily agree with them. I think there is a broad consensus that it is important to set limits and build attitudes, as the last speaker pointed out. We agree on that. The question is just how do we do it, and what input we have into it. The government's demarcation in this proposal is clear and related to the educational situation and to the school and learning situation. It is easy, or should at least be easy, to be able to convey such a restriction, even to those who disagree with it, and to those who feel that important personal, religious, ethical and moral questions are being touched and set aside. General trust is one of the most important values in Norwegian society. Trust is demanding to build and very easy to tear down. If we are to continue to trust as just a fundamental value in our society, it is important and necessary that we incorporate it into our new countrymen, who do not have the history of our country with us. This is not about genius or casualty when it comes to what we stand for. We don't have to be – and we're not going to be – together. But our prohibitions and restrictions must be clearly defined, they must be of a non-discriminatory nature, they must be easily understandable and clearly justified. It creates the credibility upon which trust in the seventh and last builds. We are promoting a very large restriction today. I believe the government is doing it with the raised head because they are promoting it with a clear and clear limitation and do not relativise this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e410	Today, we're making a historic decision. After delivery, we could boast that we were the first Nordic country to impose a ban on face-to-face clothing in education. It was correct for a few days, but before the weekend Denmark chose to go further and adopted a total ban on the face-covering clothing in the public room. It is a proposal that the Progress Party fully supports and, as we would like, is what is now on the table. We have promoted it on several occasions in the past, but no other party wants to support it. To answer questions from Marit Arnstad about the vote of the Progress Party: We have chosen to use our position in government, see what room we have in the political landscape, and we have joined our government colleagues and put in place a ban that applies in educational situations, ensuring that the faces of students, students and teachers are fully visible in kindergartens, in schools, universities and colleges, and also on the introduction program for newly arrived refugees. It will be problematic to include campus and free minutes. The representative Arnstad himself said that enforcing this would be problematic. That is why we are adopting what we are doing today, with the votes of the Central Party, because we believe that a further restriction must be a total ban, which is our primary policy, but which unfortunately we are all on our own. With today's decision, we are taking Norwegian policy a significant step in our direction. The last time the Progress Party addressed this issue, in the previous period, was, for example: The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, in the Labour Party, made it clear that there was no wish for a ban. This was the same line the Labour Party was on both in 2010 and 2013, when the representative, Mr Bøhler and others, were clear that a ban was not the way to go, but that cooperation had to be established with the environments where this was the case, one had to take preventive action, and it had to be combated through gender equality developments. In the Progress Party we are concerned that we should be able to see the faces of those we communicate with. The use of burka and nikab destroys this communication and the interaction between people, and it challenges central Norwegian values such as freedom, equality and equivalency. The garments have a women’s repressive profile, which prevents integration and poses challenges for participation in education, working life and social life. The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde said from this pulpit in 2010 that ‘The ban on niqab and burka is going to come across Europe. It is also going to happen in Norway — not today, not with this bulk of population, but some of these parties are going to change their minds.’ The party of progress has lost the fight for total bans on several occasions before, but Tybring-Gjedde was right in that the parties change their opinions. Today we will win one blow, and the debate will not be over with this. I feel confident that we will have this debate later, and that will be a total ban in public space.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e428	The representative of Boehler has presented the Workers' Party's views on this matter in an excellent way. But what makes Norway an amazing country is the values of freedom, democracy and equality, and lucky facials like nicab and burka are the opposite of freedom, democracy and equality. Personally, I believe that some of the most anti-female plagues that exist are just jars and nikabs. No one can argue that this is religious or cultural. It is an unculture that we do not want in Norway. That women are going to wrap up is a woman's vision we're not going to let rot in Norway. Norway is not the best country in the world to live in because of the oil or fish, but because of the people, including the ladies. It is the gender equality struggle that takes place in this room and in Norwegian society over time, which makes Norway one of the world’s best countries to live in — and you live in Norway, you also have to become part of Norway. So today this proposal is about something essential, that people should be able to see each other, that they should be able to communicate together in educational situations, but also in teaching everyday life. The working party is clear that in Norwegian schools and kindergartens we should not wear such clothing. The Labour Party is clear that at Norwegian universities and universities we will not wear such clothing. The ban shall apply to the entire school area. It is sad that the right side, and especially the Progress Party, are failing here, and not ensuring a clear decision from this process on a ban on burka and nicotine at Norwegian educational institutions and throughout the education and school area – a strong signal of what we think about such anti-female garments in Norway, and that we do not want it to be part of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e435	Imagine that some children and women in the world have to wear jars, a lucky body garment that not only covers the body, but also the face, which covers the eyes with a grid, so that you can see, but not be seen. This is an extreme form of oppression of women that we must never accept in Norway. In Norway, women shall live free and independent lives, have freedom of movement and have the opportunity to take an active part in society. That is why the Progress Party wants a total ban on burka and nikab in public space. Anyone who chooses to live in Norway needs to adapt to our society. We don't accept that women should wear burka and nikab, because Norway is an open society, and we're going to be able to see each other's faces. I am therefore pleased that we are now imposing a ban on burka in educational situations and that the Progress Party has, with it, drawn the political landscape in Norway far in our direction. We now have a ban in Norway, like the first country in the Nordic region. The Progress Party proposed a total ban on burka and nikab as early as 2003. At the time, there were no other parties that supported us. In 2013, when Siv Jensen, among other things, promoted a similar proposal, we only received support from the Progress Party's own votes and one voice from SV. It's now important to put in place a national basic principle, and we get that. But then we get criticism from the Labour Party because we don't go far enough. But will the Workers' Party really go further? I have still not got the understanding that the Workers' Party wants a total ban on burka and nikab in the public room. What they're trying to do, on the other hand, is we want a total ban on jars on children and babies, a problem that's not real at all. Neither in Saudi Arabia, which is the country in the world that has the biggest oppression of women, do you use cans and nicotine on children and babies. I have not been given the understanding of why the Workers' Party wants to use that as a point in this debate. This may show that the Labour Party does not understand the real problem of women who have to go with the burka in Norwegian society, who do not get the opportunity to move and participate actively in society, to get their jobs, to get their education, to live the free life that Norwegian women take for granted. It shows that the Workers' Party does not understand that issue at all, and I find that regrettable. The Workers' Party also wants to criticise us for not imposing a ban on public spaces related to educational situations. At the same time, the Labour Party will not have a total ban on burka and nikab in the public space. They bite themselves a little bit in the tail. I would encourage the Workers' Party to think a little about what they really mean in this matter. I'm going to be happy the day we see a working party that actually wants a total ban on burka and nikab in the public room. I suggest that they contact us then, and that they support the proposal now presented by the Progress Party and the Government, where we finally get a ban on burka and nikab in educational situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e452	In the field after field, we have recently seen that the Advance Party's previous positions are becoming more and more effective in Stortinget. It's a pleasure, but it's still a shame to see that it has to go so long from we're making good suggestions, until the majority starts to take a close look at it. We are repeatedly rejected for dishonest and dishonest attitudes when we propose something. When others come after and propose the same thing, it is suddenly fair and good attitudes that lie behind. What I am most surprised at in this debate is that several representatives have called for the «freedom» to wear face-to-face garments. You see it as a freedom. Facial clothing such as a jar and a nicab has nothing to do with freedom. It symbolizes coercion. It symbolizes female oppression. It symbolizes social control that we don't want. Then I think it is nice that more representatives are still calling for people to be able to do this. But it's a pleasure to, for example, The working party has come after. They've known the Progress Party for years, and they say the same thing as us. This also has nothing to do with equal rights to education. Everyone has the same right to education in Norway, and you should still have it. But there are also a number of obligations with the rights you have in Norway, and that is to deal with guidelines that are being set. These are guidelines that you have to deal with in order to obtain your rights. Now there are only a few minimal differences between what the Workers' Party proposes and what the Advance Party has achieved through the agreements we have in government. It is completely unproblematic for a party to really want to go further, but also to admit that it is not possible to get a majority for its primary wishes in government now. But once you have landed on it as the whole majority, except for the Progress Party, the country has on it that you have to have some limitations, it had to be that way because of practical challenges to enforce it. It was then that you could not give a total ban in school. Of course, only a total ban should be adopted in the public space, as Denmark has now done. Then you wouldn't have the problem that you have to follow people. You have to consider when you can wear it, and when you can take it off. If you were honest, as the Labour Party representatives have also said, that this is a women's oppressive garment, which we do not want in Norway, then you should have followed up the proposals of the Progress Party in full and voted in favour of a total ban. But it's going to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e463	This matter has many people waiting for should come and be clarified. This setting is also in line with the JELUEA declaration, which the government has presented earlier. Skulars, kindergartens and educational institutions have managed this in a demanding everyday life without a clear code. It has no benefit either for children, students or institutions, or for those who are involved in learning and teaching. And it's learning and teaching this debate is about, even though it may sometimes look like some people want to drag him even further. Good learning takes place in an open and inclusive environment based on trust, good communication and interaction. I believe that the ban that is adopted here today will be a contributor to creating just such a good environment. Facial-discovering garments are an obstacle to it. The plural proposal also helps to preserve the individual's freedom, while at the same time taking into account an open and good learning environment. The Workers' Party's proposal goes even further and implies a national ban that will also apply in situations that are not related to education and learning. This can and will be counterproductive, and one then moves on into a debate that several politicians from the Progress Party have raised here today: the total ban debate. So let's move a little bit further. This is a matter of educational situations and learning situations. It's even more special when you pull in kindergartens and construct a problem that doesn't exist today. Then there will be symbol politics and not a good thing, as I see it. I would, therefore, like to commend the government and the committee, which have done a good job and made a recommendation that is entirely in line with what the majority of respondents say about how this matter should be handled.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e478	This debate has shown that there is a great deal of distance between the main positions of the government parties in this matter. For me, it has also shown why it was right for the Left to go into the government. As the Council of State said, hearings have been an important part of why the bill was changed, but I believe that everyone who has heard this debate understands that it also means a great deal that the Left has joined the government and is lifting up important liberal principles, such as freedom of belief, freedom of expression and equal right to education in spite of different faiths. What I think is a bit in agreement with this debate is that all the representatives who talk about a further ban are, in fact, missing reflections that this is, in fact, a major intervention in the individual's freedom of belief and expression. I believe that there is reason to consider with concern that more and more European countries seem to be moving in a direction in which a ban is adopted that restricts the individual's freedom of belief and expression. For the Left, it will be very important to take the fight for Norway not to go in such a direction, and I believe that this bill does not represent such a movement. I believe that there is a necessary limitation on what we should do to ensure good learning in kindergartens, schools, universities and colleges, it is not about us, as a society, moving in a direction where we are increasingly restricting the individual's freedom of belief and expression. I also record that the representatives of the Workers' Party, in particular, lack reflection on the importance of making some limitations here. For example, when the representative Jan Bøhler points out that France's legislation has stood by when it has been tried in the European Court of Human Rights, I find it difficult to understand. Does this mean that the Labour Party believes that the kind of ban that is now being seen in France is all right? You can't participate in democratic institutions in France when you use different religious symbols – is that really how we want to have it in Norway? There was a very interesting chronicle in the evening post yesterday, written by Øystein Steene, entitled ‘Is Europe about to lose its freedom of belief?’ He wrote among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Western democracy is at a crossroads in the face of ever-new religious challenges. And there's a place where it can move towards totalitarian secularity, or find a way to tolerate what seems alien and threatening." It is an important, fundamental principle in Norway that people should be allowed to believe what they want and to express their faith in the way that is necessary for the individual. We don't want to meet what we don't like, with bans, but we want to take it into open debate. There's no doubt that the Left doesn't want people to go with Nicab and burka and cover up, but we don't think the best way to deal with this is with prohibition. Then we're going to have more conflict, and we're going to miss out on important Western values, which has been highlighted by a lot of people from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e494	I understand that this is a debate that engages, and in particular that it engages in the Progress Party. They have soon had twice as many articles in this case as in the whole case we discussed last week about the standard of maintenance in kindergarten. It is a bit demanding to discuss with three different government parties with three different entrances and views on the theme. It is to a large extent interesting to follow up the discussion of the government parties between a total ban on nikab and burka in the public space, but although we understand that there is a tension in the opinions of the government parties in this matter, from the Left to the Advance Party, we are concerned that the government has discussed it until agreement and found a limit that they think is right, and that is good. The Labour Party has its own proposal because we think it is right to go further. What the government sent to the hearing is not the same as the majority adopts today. The Labour Party believes that a ban that applies only in classrooms or in school and higher education education is more unclear and more difficult to enforce. For what is teaching and learning elsewhere than in classrooms — in corridors and outdoor areas? And what will a ban on one part of the school's territory and not others have to say for the communication between students and teachers? These are questions that cause the Workers' Party to land where we land in the case, even in the case of higher education. I have to comment that the Council of State says that the municipalities are free to go further. The Progress Party warns that they will take the matter further to the municipalities, where they will follow up locally that rules can be established for outpatient areas for schools, which then also apply to the school road and the areas of the school – go beyond what the Stortinget does today. But then you're back to the old one, that it should be up to the individual principal, the individual local government, while the whole reason why this matter came up was that you wanted national rules, clear national leadership that would contribute to less conflict locally on these kinds of issues. The contrast between today’s determination of national guidelines, while encouraging local and longer-lived discussion, does not contribute to the tranquility of municipalities. I think it's an advantage to take such debates with some ice in your stomach. So now the chairman of the Committee of the Progressive Party announces that he expects the discussion to come again, then a ban in public space. The representative of Engen-Helgheim announced the same thing. Then you can ask the question if we have a government that has one position. All discussions about the boundaries of schools and higher education are important, but they are inferred when the Progress Party here calls for a ban on public space. The working party has a clear position: not nikab or burka in kindergarten, school or higher education. It is not we, but the government parties and the Progress Party who have to clarify why a ban can apply in classrooms and not in the out-of-school areas, but nevertheless discuss a total ban in the public space.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e507	I'm actually taking the word because I want to repeat one thing that the council said in the line change: ‘We have a government with one position.’ It's a seaworthy thing, really. It's a matter of course. At least that should be a matter of course for any government. That's why I'm also a little surprised by the amount of posts that affect exactly that. It is possible, as the representative Melby more than suggests, that this is the Left's victory in government. And it's possible that that's why the High Voted Advance Party draws so large images of what they're really for, but they're never going to suggest as long as they're in government, that's total ban. It's possible that that's what makes it so, but it's a little paradoxical that it gets like this in a setting where there's as wide a consensus as it is in this setting. For the centre party, it is simple: we have programmed a proposal that is somewhat similar to what is on the table here today. We're going into it, and we think that makes sense. But I think it's worth remembering, when the Council of State in Stortinget says that we have a government with one stand, that the Progress Party does not operate on the side of its own government participation. The Progress Party is part of the proposal that the government has made, and they are part of the proposal that is being put forward in the vote today. They have not put forward any proposals that go further. They do not support any proposal that goes further. And they'll never, of course, as long as they're in government, bring forward any proposal for a total ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e521	As I have mentioned in previous speeches, the Progress Party has on several occasions made proposals for a total ban on burka and nikab in the public space. We did it the first time in 2003, when we only got the votes of the Progress Party. We did it the last time in 2013, when we only got the votes of the Progress Party and one voice from SV. There is therefore no need for us to promote a proposal for a total ban in this Chamber, because the political landscape has not moved so far. So now we have a majority for a ban on burka and nikab for students, students and teachers at kindergartens, kindergartens, high schools, universities, high schools, colleges and introduction programmes for refugees, by training newcomers in municipalities, and for apprentices and apprentices. In fact, I believe that the Progress Party has drawn the political landscape far in our direction, and we are pleased with that. No women in Norway shall use burka and nikab. The ban adopted today will send an important signal to all those who want to live here in Norway that we do not accept women’s oppressive clothing in Norway. In Norway, we're going to see each other's faces. We've just started this ban in educational situations, because not only is it oppressive, it also prevents good communication and good learning outcomes in schools, and that's what we get the majority for today. I look forward to this debate continuing. The Progress Party believes that the political landscape will be drawn further in our direction when the time is right for it. When several parties want to signal that they will support such a primary position, the Progress Party will take it up again. When the Workers' Party now issues a completely different part of this issue, namely that we are unable to get a national ban in the free areas, it is in many ways about practical challenges. We have explained earlier in the case of the Municipality of Oslo, which has universities spread throughout the municipality, that it will be impossible for universities to enforce a ban in the free areas, when the free areas of the universities are the entire municipality of Oslo. Therefore, it is important that the institutions decide this for themselves. Nor do all municipalities in Norway face challenges with the use of burka, so a national ban in open-air areas throughout Norway is not really necessary. But what is very important to clarify is that those municipalities that have major problems with burca use will have the opportunity to take this ban further. I would like to encourage the representatives of the Workers' Party to raise this with us in those municipalities that have major challenges with it. I am pleased that we are getting a broad majority on a national basic principle and a ban on burka and nikab in educational situations, even if the Progress Party would have wanted us to have a total ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e538	I just want to say first that with regard to the reference to the European Court of Human Rights, it is a matter of a judgment in 2014 that said that it was not contrary to European human rights to impose a ban on Nicab, burka and lucky garments for the sake of integration, communication, etc. The reason I referred to it was that until then we had received notes from our red-green government that there was doubt when it came to human rights. When it was decided by the European Court of Human Rights, we could address the issue of bans in education, schools, etc. We first addressed it in question in 2014. In 2016, in response to a letter from me in September, the Council of State, Listhaug, wrote that this was a small problem, and that, out of respect for the dialogue between religious and life-seeing traditions, there would be no support for a ban in school and education in any form. When the Progress Party is so high and dark and has put on the leadership jersey on this issue, you have to look at your own practice. What happened when Listhaug responded to this in a written reply to me at the beginning of September 2016 was that the State Council itself, as Progress Party representative, immediately afterwards went against its own response to its Facebook page. Then the group leader of the Progress Party in Stortinget, who was then Harald Tom Nesvik, invited the Workers' Party to talks about designing the ban that we applied to school and education. Then, when the Workers' Party and the Greens' Party presented the proposal in November 2016, there was a similar attitude when it came to not distinguishing between classrooms and not classrooms, in the consultation proposal. Now, when we hold on to the position that the Progress Party signaled clearly in 2016 and 2017, we're going to get started. It's a performance that I think is incredible. Now you're saying that it's hard to define the areas of the schools. Yes, as our representatives have said in this debate, where the construction of universities is at the centre – as there are examples here in Oslo – one must be able to limit it to the buildings and areas it is easy to define. But if this is to lead to that one cannot limit this around schools throughout the country and say that there should be no law with Nicab and burka in the school corridors, in the school yard, etc. – if the Progress Party believes that it is difficult to define this in most schools around the country – I don’t think there have been very many school visits. It is very difficult to understand that the Progress Party is now going to say that this is to be defined by the municipalities, and that one maintains that you are not for a total ban, it is like everything or nothing – when one could achieve something better today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e552	I guess I'll be able to answer some of the attacks that came here. Firstly, I believe that the municipalities now have to go into the legislation and see if this should be further expanded, whether to extend the ban to the school area as well as the school road. There may be some challenges with school roads involving public transport, such as: There are assessments that the municipalities have to make themselves. With regard to the educational situation in the Municipality of Oslo, I know that the ban is going further there already, and the Progress Party is pleased. It is worth noting that the Progress Party never got an impact on a ban on burka and nikab in the Sundvolden Declaration. When the Progress Party joined the government together with the Right in 2013, it was not part of the government platform. When Jan Bøhler attacks Sylvi Listhaug to defend government policy, I am quite sure that Jan Bøhler is reasonably aware that Sylvi Listhaug also wanted a total ban on burka and nikab in the public space, but was responsible for the government as the Council of State. The Progress Party has now been implemented in the Jeløya Declaration with the Right and the Left to introduce a ban in Norway based on educational situations. I really don't understand what the Workers' Party wants with this. If the criticism of the proposal now before us is only that the ban should have been in the school area, then we will deal with this in the municipalities. You could say that we had a national rule for this, it would have been easier for the municipalities, but in practice it has nothing to say, because in those municipalities that would want to have a ban that also applies in the school area and the school way, we get it in place. The Progress Party is clear, and I am counting on the Workers' Party to support us in terms of municipalities. There is one thing the Labour Party has failed to address and defend throughout this debate, and it is about the Labour Party's proposal to ban burka and nikab on babies and children in kindergartens. There are no countries and cultures in the world, as far as I am aware, which practice the use of cans and nicotine on children under six years of age. These are young children, who are going to learn to go and eat and develop, and there is no practice. I don't understand why the Labour Party, as a defense that they want to go beyond us, is pulling these little children in. The Progress Party has made a loose proposal today to ask the government to identify the extent of face-to-face clothing on children in kindergarten and take action if this is a problem. It is clear that no parties in Norway want babies to use burka and nicotine, but there is no real problem either. Could the Workers' Party give me an answer to where they have been inspired, where they have been given the idea that this should be an important matter to raise in the Stortinget when this matter comes up, that we should have a ban on the children in the kindergarten? I would rather recommend the Workers' Party to use its commitment to oppressed women in slightly different areas, for burka and nikab are largely about women in puberty, who are kept at home, and the female oppression they are subjected to, something children and babies do not become.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e569	The representative Jan Bøhler has spoken twice before and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e574	I just want to say to that very question: what our educational fraction has put in is that it concerns all educational institutions, across all ages. For the distinction between six-year-olds in kindergarten and six-year-olds in primary school: if you were to use the reasoning that there must actually be examples in some cultures, etc. to document the use of nicotine and burka, the same would apply to the situation in primary school, to the lowest age groups there, when distinguishing between six-year-olds in kindergarten and six-year-olds in school. No one claims that this is a problem in kindergarten or among young children today. I remember that in the 1990s no one thought that large children's hippies would be a problem for the smallest children in primary school, because there were very few or none of the countries of origin who practiced it. This is a principle that I believe has been put in just for it to go across all educational institutions, without anyone being able to prove that there are examples of it. The same is true in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e585	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e601	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e617	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e626	I would like to thank the Committee for its good and constructive work. Today, we provide a solution for further dialogue and cooperation so that children’s and youth organisations can access schools and other public buildings locally. Discrimination in lending must be avoided, so that it does not affect children’s commitment and the ability to engage. Children and young people engaged have an intrinsic value for the development of tomorrow’s Norway. Future generations must also have the opportunity to see the value of standing up for what they believe in. It's our shared responsibility to keep democracy alive, with people involved and involved. The committee held a hearing on 3 May, and I would like to thank all the organisations that met at the hearing. It made the impression to hear about the experiences of the different ones. There was a strong desire to adopt guidelines for municipalities and schools. The Committee has given its opinion with a different outcome, and Stortinget is now landing this matter. I would like to encourage the children's and youth organisations to keep us informed about whether there will be a improvement. I would like to stress that the Committee takes a serious view of the recordings that have been made. The commitment that is emerging in the organisational life, and of which I myself have had great pleasure, is not to be hampered by the lack of goodwill locally. The involvement of KS in the hearing is very difficult to address just local democracy and local assessments. It shall not be necessary for children’s and youth organisations to go to the Biggest and Biggest Policymakers to change the terms and conditions of loans from schools and other public buildings. The road to local politicians must be short here. Everyone should sharpen their ears and be responsive. I hope that both KS and local politicians will take this matter and our attitude as a clear call to improve the situation of children's and youth organisations across the country. Municipalities shall have an advantage and authority in knowing local organisation life and volunteering and local conditions. It is important that national organisations are also given the opportunity to engage in local activities. In case of disagreement or doubt, the dialogue is the solution: what makes rooms unborrowable? What alternatives exist? The Committee wants an active social debate with a living government of all ages in all municipalities. Today, the Government is asking the Government to engage in dialogue with the KS and the Norwegian Children’s and Youth Council with a view to ensuring that children’s and youth organisations have access to schools and other public buildings locally, and to avoid that school owners contribute to gross discrimination in lending. The Committee’s recommendation is to improve the situation of the children’s and young people’s organisations. I would like to thank the proposers for raising the matter. It's been a lot of commitment. The Committee now hopes that dialogue will help improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e653	I would like to thank both the rapporteurs and the rapporteur for their good work. It is good that today we have an overall committee behind the vote. This has been a matter of concern, and the Committee has had and has had broad contact with a wide range of different organisations, as the consultation also showed. This is a matter that means a lot to many of the important children's and youth organisations around the country. I want to highlight in particular the job that LNU has done to raise this issue, and not least show how different there have been between organisations and between municipalities. For the Workers’ Party, it has been important that children’s and youth organisations and voluntary organisations have free use of public premises where possible. When we from Stortinget cannot impose this on the municipalities, we also think it is a good solution that KS, LNU and the government should engage in a dialogue where the aim is to put in place some guidelines or a changed practice. This is a good conclusion, where the Storting expects this to mean a change and improvement in practice. So today's big deal is to start a job and continue further dialogue. Despite this, I have noticed that individual parties, that is, the Christian People's Party, have been a little eager, because before the work has started, I see that individual representatives have dared to conclude on the outcome of this dialogue and this work in the media. I just want to stress that we think is a little unfortunate. The size should not set expectations for a group of organisations until the dialogue and work have started at all. We have to trust that the work that is now being started is being done in a good and fair way that includes everyone. Anyway, this is a joy that hopefully will make it easier in the future to do volunteer child and youth work throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e664	As it emerges here, there is a broad consensus that our schools will be a place where our young and hopeful will thrive and learn that commitment in this context is an important contribution to both well-being and increased learning, and that it builds up under the will that is so strong in this country. This is also likely to be the background to the fact that a large number of municipalities already have an open practice and contribute to a high level of activity in schools and municipal buildings in sports and culture, but also in many other areas. However, through the consultation — and as suggested by the proposers themselves — there have been examples of different practices around the country in terms of renting and access to public and municipal buildings. The children's and young people's exposure that we have in this country is entirely positive. The Committee has therefore unanimously supported the fact that we welcome this in a number of contexts and that it is committed to an open and democratically anchored activity. There are many good examples around Norway. The drama has been pulled forward. There are local guidelines, which have a digital booking system – ensuring low threshold and unbureaucratic access to premises. But local self-government is strong, and there is no authority to impose on municipalities how to use their own building mass. It is also important to recognise that, in some contexts, there will be well-founded reasons for not being able to lend out municipal premises, whether due to practical, safety or other local circumstances, which need to be given particular attention locally. It will therefore, of course, be a challenge to design coherent national guidelines that address all these considerations. Nevertheless, it is important that we point to issues that have arisen, and that we from Stortinget expect organisations not to experience different practices and indiscriminate discrimination in Municipality-Norway. On this basis, I am pleased that the Committee has gathered around a joint proposal, where the government in dialogue with the KS and the National Council of Norway's Children's and Youth's organisations, the LNU, will contribute to a future practice that avoids the unequal and indiscriminate discrimination between municipalities in renting or lending.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e677	It is important that we facilitate a broad children's and youth exposure. The wide variety of children's and youth organisations we have in this country is of great importance. Children's and youth work is a way of getting involved in the issues that are important to you, but you also get a sense of society and democracy that is unique and that is very important to our democracy. Schools are important meeting places, and they should contribute to debates, opinions and opinions that are open to all. For many organisations, school accommodation is the best – or perhaps the only – option if you want to organise a weekend seminar, a harvest gathering or an evening meeting, and an open attitude on the part of schools and municipalities, where you understand the needs and challenges of children’s and youth organisations, provide a good basis for maintaining the activity. Many municipalities, as Gudmundsen's representative also pointed out in his post, have good guidelines, and many schools have an open door, while others are more difficult to access. From Stortinget we would like to say that we want both municipalities and schools to facilitate child and youth work, but it cannot be our role to control the schools in detail in this respect. It is important that schools, which themselves know their students and the challenges of their community environment best, have freedom related to how they want to dispose of their premises. Furthermore, the school owner needs to have local space for action to find good local solutions. We therefore think it wise to facilitate dialogue between the parties involved — the municipalities, on the one hand, and the Council of Norway’s children’s and youth organisations, on the other hand — in order to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e688	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur and the entire committee for their willingness to reach a unanimous recommendation on the issue of access for children's and youth organisations to the use of schools and other public spaces. It is important in this case to note, as all youth organisations present at the Committee's hearing, that access to the public school's premises is a major problem today in order to carry out its activities. Children's and youth organisations play an important role in our democracy and therefore need to be secured a good framework for their activity. Over time, we have seen a trend towards more and more schools saying no to students when it comes to being allowed to engage in different voluntary activities at school premises. In this way, an organisation's ability to operate and develop is hampered. This has particularly affected religious organisations, such as the United States and Japan. Norway’s Christian Student and School Youth Act, but also PRESS and the Youth Organisation of the Target Group could tell at the hearing how difficult it is to obtain premises for their activities. They meet uncertain school leaders who lack clear signals from their owners, who can create a safe and predictable framework for that type of activity. From the Christian People's Party it is obvious that this type of legal activity is a positive feature of school life. There is something that needs to be encouraged and facilitated. The problems identified in this case show a great need for clearing up through a more coherent and coherent approach to the issue. If you want all children to be able to participate in leisure activities, you do not come outside school as a natural arena for information and recruitment to the young volunteer. When children’s and youth organisations meet closed doors because the school does not want political, religious or other organisations to recruit members, it is a serious restriction on the freedom of association of young people. Transparency is important for democratic participation, and such transparency will respond to the concerns expressed by some schools for the development of closed groups in the school environment. It is therefore important that organisations that have access to school should be democratically governed. Through the decision of the Stortinget in this matter today, in the Christian People's Party, we have a clear expectation that there will be an end to the indiscriminate discrimination of the various youth organisations in many places in the country today. We have to expect that the dialogue between the government, the KS and the Norwegian Children’s and Youth Council will ensure that they have access to schools and other public buildings in a more predictable way than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e701	The Government is committed to facilitating living local environments, democratic engagement and volunteering. This is also underlined in the Jeløya platform, where we point out that children and young people should have the opportunity to create their own volunteer and to organise their own culture. School is an important common arena where children and young people meet across background, religion, leisure interests and other dividing lines. That is why the school is also an important venue for today's children and young people to learn the value of democracy and volunteering. It creates the foundation for our welfare society, which the children are going to manage further. In Norway, we have a long and good tradition of borrowing and leasing school rooms and facilities to various activities and organisations. This applies both at school, at evening time and on weekends. We know that this is crucial for countless school corps, sports associations, theater groups, choirs and many others. I'm glad this tradition is strong. The use of school buildings for several different purposes and thus having a central and living place in neighbourhoods and communities is positive. The fact that today we get a unanimous vote from the committee also gives a clear signal to the municipalities. The issue here today is the administration and rules of the municipalities and counties for their own buildings. There may be legitimate reasons why schoolrooms are not lent or rented to anyone asking. This applies both in school and outside. Practical, safety or other reasons may make it difficult. I trust that our school owners and local politicians also see the value of commitment and volunteering. I expect them to manage the school buildings wisely when they decide what to use the buildings for, who to borrow them, and for what purpose. Practice in each school must, of course, be factual and non-discriminatory. I look forward to the dialogue with the KS and the Norwegian Children's and Youth Council, and I hope that it will be able to make the municipalities aware of it and that good practice will be found in this area. I believe that we national politicians must nevertheless have humility and respect for the fact that much is being done best locally, and we must have respect for the local self-government that is now also enshrined in the Constitution. At the same time, politicians can actively support both nationally and locally under activities for children and young people, and especially when the initiative and commitment come from young people themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e716	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e722	I am very pleased with the government's clear support that children's and youth organisations should be able to use the school's premises for their activities at school when there are otherwise no practical obstacles to doing so. The very arbitrary practice that we have heard that some organisations report, and that has evolved over time, where for example. some teams engaged in religious activities, such as: Norway’s Christian Student and School Youth Act does not, on the grounds that activities with religious content cannot be permitted — to what extent does the Council of State consider this to be discriminatory and possibly a violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e728	Let me just stress that the Children's Convention does not oblige the State to require municipalities to lend their school facilities to children's and youth organisations. The Children's Convention has Article 14, which deals with freedom of religion, and Article 15, which deals with freedom of organisation. The State is obliged to respect and recognise these freedoms, and they apply to children and young people, and the State shall not actively restrict the rights of children. I believe it is to draw it too far to say that not having to borrow rooms at school is contrary to the freedom of religion and organization of the students. I would nevertheless stress, as I also did in my speech, that I expect municipalities to find good solutions locally, which are non-discriminatory, and where they recognise the important commitment that children and young people have. I think it is problematic if we from the state should go too far in detail governing the municipalities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e737	Thanks for the answer. Today, the government is asking the UK Government to engage in dialogue with the KS and LNU with a view to ensuring a different approach for children’s and youth organisations to access school premises than one today is facing as a challenge. What are the State Council's expectations of what will come out of the dialogue?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e744	Now, in the wake of the debate that the Christian People's Party has raised, it has been claimed that it is an arbitrary practice, and I believe that such a dialogue can reveal whether it is an arbitrary practice. It can also clarify the room for action of each municipality and, hopefully, lead to a greater understanding between the children’s and youth organisations and the municipalities. I hope that the municipalities will use the space of action that is, and that they both support and recognise the important commitment that is among children and young people, and to a large extent facilitate the use, loan and rental of premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e751	So the chord change is over. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e769	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, seven lines of reply be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e778	The education reform in Defence is an important part of the long-term plan. The reason for this is that the education system in Defence, as it is today, is fragmented, it has vulnerable environments, it is expensive, and it is partly unclear guidelines. The Defence Manager has also identified significant savings potential in the way the education system operates today, and many of the measures now being implemented in this reform are, in fact, also recommended by former Heads of Defence. There is a need to adapt today’s education system in defence to the new military system, where two complementary career systems – one for officers and one for specialists. The ratio of professional to defence students is low. At the war schools there are three cadets per trade union, and in total in the defense there are 300 professionals for 700 students and cadets. It must be called a rather high teacher's density. Since the military college was established in 1817, decisive crossroads have been the discussion of the education system of the defence, the balance between two important aspects of the officer's role, namely the practitioner and the academic, a red thread in development and the discussions on the military education system, of which we have every reason to be proud. There has been a discussion about whether the centre of gravity should be on the warrior role or whether the centre of gravity should be on the academic role in the training. We also see this discussion in the context of the reform we are now facing. Military personnel shall be able to resolve and exercise management in very demanding situations. It must be a very important prerequisite for further reform and development of this system. This is why it is so important to ensure the very nature of professional training in the military education system. But this education system also needs to be adapted to the fact that 30 pst. by the defence staff today is an officer, while 70 pst. are specialists – if you look at the military staff and ignore the civil servants. This is a change in composition which the education system also needs to adapt to, so that the different categories are optimally trained. The aim of this educational reform is to create one education system in Defence. As I initially said, today's education system is partly fragmented, and there is a need to see education across the defenses today. Training should be more urgently tested, and there is a need to develop common military subjects that are at the bottom of all military education, regardless of whether they are taken into the Air Force, the Maritime Defense or the Army. Finally, although the Defence College in the new reform becomes the organisational superstructure of the six accredited universities of Defence, the training of war schools will continue to take place in Trondheim, Oslo and Bergen. This reform is a major and important reform, which has also been recorded by the Storting that there is an interest in defence inside and outside. Therefore, it is of the opinion of the Biggest that the government should inform the Biggest at regular intervals about the evolution of this reform and whether it is now being implemented in accordance with the assumptions made by the Stortinget when the long-term plan was adopted two years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e795	There are several reasons why there is a need to reform the education system in Defence. I would like to highlight one of these reasons: there is a need for more common training across the defence sectors – not primarily to cut costs, but to build common understanding, culture and identity across the defence sectors from the start of a career in defence. The defence has a very large number of competent and competent employees, but in today's system, joint training across the branches unfortunately takes place only after many years of service in the defence. In the autumn of 2016, the Stortingen agreed to implement a education reform in the Defence. But it was erased no unconditional agreement. The majority of the population shattered a number of leads, assumptions and reservations for the implementation of this reform. The division of labour in our democracy means that the Storting should not govern the administration in detail. However, a State Council cannot deal with the bulk of the population as with any hearing body. It is therefore alarming when, in its four-page opinion on the Committee's examination of this matter, the Minister of Defence is not at all prejudicing the leadership, assumptions and reservations of the majority of those affected by the implementation of this reform. That is why Stortinget must respond. And then it's right to ask the government to file a new case for the Storting. It should not really be necessary, but let me nevertheless point to the specific issues of the majority of the population, on which the Ministry of Defence must take over and answer the matter when it is to be submitted to the Stortinget: Firstly, bureaucracy: what action is being taken to prevent the organisational consolidation of a number of schools from creating a new layer of complex guidelines and unnecessary bureaucracy? Secondly, the cooperation between the E service and the PST: can important educational cooperation for our military and civil security service continue to be free of squeaks? Thirdly, over-ambitious savings plans: both the head of defence and the bulk of the population pointed out that the savings were estimated at 530 million. kr appeared to be ‘very optimistic’. What concrete cut has been planned to meet this over-ambitious – in my opinion – savings target? Fourth, and overall: the majority of the population assumed ‘that the emphasis of the education reform on saving, efficiency and rationalisation should not be at the expense of the quality of education’. The manner in which the quality of education is to be taken into account is necessary for the Ministry to give a thorough account. In all major reform processes, there is a risk that there will be free passengers, i.e. changes that really have nothing to do with the reform, but which actors are trying to implement under the cover of a comprehensive reform and change processes already in progress. As of today, the size does not have a basis for issuing any temporary enrichment or for stopping all ongoing changes, e.g.: the ongoing admission to the defence education. However, there is a need to clarify and clarify a number of questions so that the Stortinget can, if necessary, lead the education reform into a proper course. That is why the Labour Party will today vote in favour of the proposal that the government should present a case to the Stortinget on the education reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e818	There are many good intentions in the education reform that were agreed two years ago. But there have been strong reactions from many in the defence sector after the reform was signed, and there have been too many cases in which the budget for education should be cut to close to half. One's going to save 530 million. kr per year, and, of course, without the quality of education being reduced, according to the government. I'll believe it! A new military arrangement does not mean that the requirement for competence in the organisation in its health is reduced, rather the opposite. The size has a responsibility to assess whether the changes that occur with the education in the defence are reasonable, whether they are in line with the goal one has seen, and whether they can be applied without loss of quality. One should even look at quantity. This is why the Storting should be presented with a case concerning the changes the government will introduce, as well as the introduction of leaders, statements and retentions from the majority, which were referred to by previous speakers, which obviously also need to be reported back. It is not correct for the FMR to recommend several of the measures to be implemented. On the other hand, some of the working groups considered such measures. The conclusion and recommendation of the head of defence – to which the government and the majority like to refer – was that the education reform should not be implemented now. The Chief of Defence struck in his comment on the long-term plan, among others. fixed that: ‘my recommendation was to wait for structural changes until the defence has implemented a new military regime and experience with it was surveyed. However, the Government recommends a comprehensive reconversion of the education system without the existence and apparent absence of experience of new military arrangements without a thorough assessment of the consequences of the solution. I am concerned that lack of impact assessments can contribute to a very optimistic educational savings potential.’ That's what the Chief of Defense said. The chief of defense's unrest is shared by many leaders in the defense. Everyone involved can see that the goal of the reform is to save money, and the central party will therefore place heavy emphasis on the plural that a weakening of education in defence itself can impose both economic and human costs in the future, e.g. if you get an increased risk of accidents because of a lack of proper training. I am pleased that a majority in the Chamber supports the proposal of the Centre Party to have a case for the Stortinget on the education reform in the Defence. This matter must be referred to you as soon as possible and should contain some important elements. It must describe the different levels of education and the lines in terms of scope and length, and it must also be short of professional content. What is the planned recruitment source for the different levels? And does the government think that the recruitment basis is sufficient to ensure a good recruitment in the various areas? One must clarify which vocational training courses were given before, what was given in the command and war spheres, and which the operating units of the future must last. How it is to be financed, I know there is a great deal of concern in many defence environments. It is also important for us at Stortinget to know how the different levels are related to the principle of education in Defence, cf. Prop. 111 LS, adopted in the 2014-2015 session. I think it's important for us to understand the quality now compared to the old order, both collecting and on the different lines. In particular, the removal of pay from cadets will reduce the level of experience among students in the war spheres. What will it have to say about the quality of the educational situation itself, and also the professional level of the cadets when they come into their first position? There's a lot of questions. These are just some of them, and we in the Center Party are looking forward to getting a case. We would like the start of a new scheme to be postponed until 2019. Unfortunately, we don't get any plurality for that, but out of respect for both the defence and the plural decisions that are being made today, I ask the Council of State to come back with a case to the Stortinget as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e842	In 2016, the Left, together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, stood in the criticism of the planned education reform in the Defence as described in the long-term plan. We thought the reform was not thoroughly determined enough, and that it had deserved better treatment in Stortinget than it was then. We were, and we are, concerned about the consequences of today's students going straight from high school to the war school without first serving their two-year service. The effects of this will be evident in the coming years, but the Left warned in 2016 against its consequences. Furthermore, we are concerned that the reform should not be at the expense of recruiting the Home Security Force. If the reform will weaken the weight of the Home Secretary's command, it is uncertain, and will also be something the government will have to follow closely in the years to come. Last but not least, the Left has been concerned with the international law training that Norwegian soldiers are obliged to receive. The reform cannot be at the expense of this offer, all the time Norwegian soldiers carry out important international missions. In 2016, the majority did not agree with that assessment. The majority did not want a further investigation, nor did they want the education reform to be presented as their own case to the Stortinget. We disagreed with that, but we, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party lost that case in 2016. The long-term defence plan was adopted in 2016, and since much has happened. Education reform is in the process of being rolled out. The first coals that will know the reform of the body will start in the harvest. Then it's too late to take a rematch on education reform, and with it at risk to stop the reform and the whole progress of the long-term plan. The best solution for the Defence today is not a training strategy, which the Christian People's Party and the Central Party are calling for here. Today, we need to look ahead and ensure the best possible implementation and a good and complete evaluation of the reform in due course. The parties that adopted the long-term defence plan in 2016 are responsible for the success of the education reform. We, who were outside the conciliation in 2016, have obligations to follow up and ensure optimum implementation. But we're not going to use Storting's pulpit to fight eternal rematches. It is neither Norway's defense nor the soldiers served.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e857	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to explain the important education reform of the defence. The reform is a central element of the long-term plan for the defence sector, to which the Stortinget has agreed. The purpose of the reform is to adapt education to the categories of military personnel — officers and specialists. Military professional competence is central. Training reform shall create conditions for good quality in education and at the same time reduce costs. The reform is in full swing. Measurement of quality and good and overall governance is an essential part of the objective of the education reform. Professional quality shall be ensured through access to strong professional environments, well integrated research and development and administrative competence. One common higher education institution is established. A top node has been created in the Defence Staff. Furthermore, a Board of Defence College is established. These interventions contribute to the establishment of a coherent education system, simpler guides and reduced administration. This is a significant simplification compared to when the defense had six colleges. It also contributes to the harmonisation of defence education with civil colleges. The defence shall determine the professional content of the training. The new higher education board is therefore subject to the head of defence. The Defence Borders officers are represented in the Board of Directors. This shall contribute to meeting the defence’s competence needs and to focusing education on military core competence. The defence will adapt command training to the new military addendum. Specialists to be ordered will be required to complete command training with the first duty completed. Many will have years of experience. This, together with vocational and functional training from the weapons schools, will provide a good education for the specialist command. War schools continue their three-year Bachelor's programme with changed content and more common education. Many of our future officers could be found among those under protection. However, I believe it is important to have a broad recruitment basis for officer training. It is therefore possible to apply for war school education directly from high school. If we stop this opportunity, we can miss out on talents. In order for defence to be the expected security policy instrument, a better balance must be struck between tasks, structure and economy. The long-term plan is based on a carefully aligned balance between these elements. Overall, the conversion of the Defence Education System is planned to provide annual savings of approximately 560 million. 2017 krones. The resources shall contribute to the enhancement of operational capability. The Defence Manager has reported risks in recruitment and winning requirements for 2018, but the Defence Force has the ability to take out the planned gains during the four-year period. The reform is thus an important part of the long-term plan and the decisions taken by the Stortinget during its examination. The implementation of the education reform has come a long way. The Defence College is about to complete the personnel conversion. The defence is in the process of selecting candidates for the autumn training. New plans are in the process of being completed. The Defence Manager considers it time-critical that the pace of the reform is maintained so that the training can start as planned in 2018. Education reform constitutes a necessary reform of the development of defence following the introduction of a new military regime. I'm happy to be able to get back to Stortinget with more information about the education reform in the Defense of Prop. 1 S for the financial year 2019. More and more information will be provided on the status and follow-up of targets and the assumptions on which the size is concerned. I am impressed by the work done within the Defence Education System. I will follow closely the further work, and I am pleased that the Storting is concerned about this. There are many questions about the reform: Will the quality of officers be worse than in the past when the defence is going to recruit directly from high school? Well, the defense can't be unaffected by other trends in society. In order to compete for the best candidates, the education system of defence must be harmonised with civil universities and colleges. The defense already has good experience in recruiting directly from high school to the war schools, so-called continuous war school. The Maritime War School has had this model since the mid-1990s. Should the education reform have been subjected to? Two years have passed since the defence introduced two complementary career paths – one for the officer and one for the specialist. In the past, the defense had one education pillar for all command. The introduction of a specialist corps involves changes to the officer and command roles and the ongoing training reform shall meet the competence needs of both categories of personnel. Therefore, today’s officer training cannot be the model for future training of officers. It is therefore natural to make changes to the education system now. We can't afford to wait a generation to develop an education system that meets the needs of the defense. The government believes it is essential that the defence train the officers of the future and the specialists of the future for the new tasks to be solved as quickly as possible and that no new training is established within a fragmented education system with complex guides and small disciplines.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e885	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e890	The majority of the population crushed the principle that reform measures should not be at the cost of quality education. But from among others The maritime ball in Bergen has a number of concerns. The aim of the reform has been to make education less fragmented, but the result has been the opposite. The maritime ball has never had a stronger professional environment than they had until the reform started. Now the bars are for professionals; they are required to cut significantly down on the number of added, added with doctoral degrees have ended, and more people with acute skills also have to stop. This is a very alarming signal. Can the Council of States do any good in the way that the reform measures on the maritime sphere actually contribute to strengthening the quality of education, as it was also said that they should?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e899	I have also visited Bergen, and I do not quite know myself in that description. A reform is a change in the education system, and in particular a change in this system, with which the chairman of the committee has so rightly opened up, which also jogs at some of the silos we have within the Defence, with the various weapons, will create debate. Chief Marine is now a hot defender of the education reform. The Chief of Defense reports that this is in the right order: we will get better quality, and the reform is on the right track. It is easy to travel around and pick out messages from some employees around the environment, but I believe that in a process of conversion like this, we should trust those who have been responsible for implementing the reform, the responsibility for implementing the new education system. It's the Chief of Defense. I'm listening to him. He's sure this gives better quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e908	The Council of State says that the head of defence is sure that this will be good. In my post, I referred to the defense chief's concerns about education reform. He recommended that one wait with the education reform until the new military system was implemented, to gain experience with the system, instead of doing what the government is doing, pushes everything in at the same time, and creates both a strong turmoil and, in fact, a very difficult working situation. The maritime ball was named after him. I could refer to other defense branches than what one has in Bergen, for this is quite unisonable. I went to the Defence High School for three months, we traveled to all defense branches, and the education reform was the biggest concern of many. Will the Council of State stand firm by recommending that one introduce this education reform no, and think that this was a good idea? It's not in line with what you can read from the defense manager's statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e918	The representative of Navarsete refers to the statements of working with professional military advice before we came up with the long-term plan. We're not introducing everything at the same time. The new military system has been put in place. We're now in the second year with that part. Then we are introducing a education reform that will be able to adapt education to the positions we are given. And yes, the head of defense is clear that now it is important that we implement the education reform – in order to get the quality we need for education, and an education that is in line with the new positions we are given in Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e925	I thank you for your answer, which was not so funny. When you want to halve the cost of an education system, as the government puts it, many people think that regardless of which education system it is, it means that a lot of people have to go. For most schools, it means that one has fewer qualified teachers to teach well. The Council of State is fully confident that, even if one is to halve costs, quality will be even better. Can the Council of State at least include three specific areas where he sees that quality is improved and which he can also measure in one year, or five – whether what he says today, succeeds? I'm asking that he be concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e932	Yes, I can be specific about that. So we're introducing a new military system. That is, we have employees in the Defense where some are specialists and some are officers. The old mouth that the general should be able to do what the branch can no longer applies. So we're going to have two completely different professionals. That is a very concrete reason for the change in the education system, which will provide better training for the new jobs we are going to have. That's a necessary change. So many have mentioned in articles here that we used a lot of learning skills per student. Now, when we're going to have more consistent teaching between the different arms, it's also natural that we can do it with fewer teacher powers and use less teacher resources on it. It will also provide a qualitative improvement because you get the overview and see the whole defence better, while in a good way we can teach with less resources and make it cheaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e939	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e946	I am happy to read the position of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee on this matter. When two important fields such as education and defence are to be combined in a training reform, it is important that there is a solid anchoring of professionals, both those who train, and those who recruit the trained soldiers, the sergeants, the officers and others. The amount of anxiety, concern and complaints that have emerged in this case suggests that the anchoring is not solid enough. The government parties argue with the long-term defence plan and that the time is too short to deal with the corruption of education reform. But in the eyes of the Centre Party, the long-term plan and the Storting's responsibility for the goals here are an argument that we should deal with the matter. This is not about wanting a postponement or a rematch, but simply about wanting a political handling of the matter. The size has a responsibility to assess whether the changes to be made to the defence education are in line with the sector’s objective, and it is therefore clear that a case should be submitted concerning the changes that the government wants to implement. This will also allow the Storting to make the necessary adjustments to ensure that the assumptions of the majority of population are based, namely that the objective of education reform should not be at the expense of the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e955	I should perhaps have taken this further in the lines, but when I asked questions about the head of defense's arrest, the Council of State said that the trouble that the head of defense brought was in FMR. But there is a comment on the long-term plan. After the government has made its plan, the head of defense has the privilege of commenting on the plan. It was in a comment on the long-term plan that he concluded that he had advised to wait with structural changes, that the government had not listened to the head of defense at that point, and that one then recommended a comprehensive change of education system, without the experience of the new military system leading. It's okay to say that a new military system is going on, but after a year or two – what experience does one have with it? Almost none. To gain experience, the system must work for as long as one actually sees how the system works, and it does not work for one or two years; it needs much longer time to see how this actually looks. The head of defense was, and is likely still, concerned that missing impact assessments – and this is not the only time we get a case of lack of impact assessments – can contribute to a, carefully said, very optimistic savings potential in education. We are looking at areas where reforms are used as a shell cover to save money in many sectors. It's not wrong to have a education reform, there's a lot of good intentions in the reform, what's going to be wrong, is to take it in so fast that one hasn't seen the consequences of a new military system, that one hasn't been evaluated and made some necessary adjustments here before another comes up with a new reform in a field as important as education in the defense. Because that's very important. It is possible that it was too vocally dealt with, because in the long-term plan there were many other elements that one should also discuss, but the more important it is that we follow closely what is happening now, and that we get good discussions further in the Storting on this important field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e962	I also want to join the reason why a separate review is necessary in Stortinget. We have been concerned about the education reform for a long time from the SV and have already made a clear wish to get this to the Stortinget when dealing with the long-term plan. It is not because we are opposed to making changes – on the contrary, there are many good reasons to do – but because we are afraid that the reform will be austerity rather than an update of the kind of skills we need in future defences. We therefore believe it is natural that there is a matter for Stortinget. In this context, I would also like to refer to the comments we have made together with other parties on what such a review should contain, and we need a proper review of whether the changes now envisaged in the education system are adapted to the new military system and provide the right competence for future defence. I am pleased with the setting, and SV joins it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e969	Change is difficult and challenging, and change engages. The education in Defense is a very strong part of the defence culture. I therefore understand that this is an area that engages many. But a new military system is in place. It is also true that there is a different experience with the new military system than just having it in place in Norway — it is also a well-known organisational system from countries with which we can compare. The Chief of Defence is behind the education reform. The Chief of Defense says it's necessary now that we've changed the military arrangement. The defence works purposefully and constructively to achieve a good education system, and I believe that the education system currently outlined should respond well to the need for flexible, relevant and needs-tested training for our specialists and a flexible, relevant and needs-tested training for officers. Then, as I said in my post, I am very pleased that we can come back to the Storting and explain to the process – simply because there is a reform that engages many, and that includes an important part of the Defense. And it is important that there is a great deal of understanding in the Storting for the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e978	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e994	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to seven lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1003	This proposition contains an approval of the cost framework for five new material projects and also an information to the Storting on a number of other issues related to defence. The five new material projects include the acquisition of land-based transport aid, hand and departmental weapons, bulwark armor wagon, engineering armoured carriage and new coastguard vessel. It's a consensual setting, so it might be useful to remember that the investments in the proposition are the result of previous discussions and decisions, and that the deal that comes to expression here does not necessarily mean that there has been a deal about all the issues that are up today. But now one goes to investment, and then everyone gets behind that investment. From the proposal it is stated that the defence truck, which was purchased between 1987 and 1996, is in the long term lost as a real capacity without new procurement. The defense has cooperated with the Swedish defence on the acquisition, and the framework agreement with suppliers in 2014 covers all the variants and versions of trucks that the Defence needs. It's a big investment, with a cost framework of about $2.6 billion. kr, which will provide at least the most needed in the defence: 125 vehicles of the highest priority wagons. In addition, the defence shall acquire approximately 290 running gear in other callings on the framework agreement. It will also not cover the whole need for defence today, but is within what is of economic resources. It has a time frame from 2018 to 2025. The remaining need must be covered by passing on about 500 of the best Scania vehicles you have today. Defence-industrial cooperation with the supplier has been called for before the contract is signed, and the project has a cost framework of 1.96 billion. kr. That's a lot of money we're talking about in defence investment. In previous cases, the Storting has agreed that the Army should have a modern tank capacity as a decisive element in the mechanized structure. It's a long way to go, but the purchase of six bridesmaid armored cars and six engineering armored cars, built on a modern Leopard 2-chassis, is a step in the right direction. These vehicles will provide far better protection for the crew and reduce the risk of loss and damage and include materials for logistics and education. There will also be a requirement for agreements with the supplier for defence-related industrial cooperation of at least equivalent value and quality as the main contract. The recommended cost frame is $1.44. kr. The acquisition of three new helicopter-bearing coastal vessels with approved ice-enhanced hulls has been completed by two years. The delivery of the vessels is scheduled to take place between 2022 and 2024. The contract will be awarded to a Norwegian shipyard and must be signed shortly after the Stortinget has approved the project. The cost frame of the project is 6.81 billion. kr. The new vessels are dimensioned and ice-reinforced for their primary northern operating areas. In addition to these projects, the proposal includes a total of 649 MIU of the cost and the cost framework for the upgrade and extension of Haakonsververn Orlogsstation. NOK and purchase of hand and department weapons, of SEK 602 million. kr. The Grand Majority decided in the long-term plan that Evene’s flight station should be the base of the Defence Maritime Patrol. It requires the establishment of a new infrastructure in many areas at the Level Aviation Station, as well as upgrading and strengthening access and security systems, and it requires new constructions for various operations. The cost frame is set at 1.179 billion. kr. It is likely that many needs will need to be met before Evenes can accept surveillance aeroplanes in a satisfactory manner. There have been many discussions about the NH90 helicopters. The Ministry of Defence is concerned about the experience of operation both in the Norwegian helicopters and in other countries. Experience so far shows that the NH90 helicopter is more maintenance writing, with higher operating costs and lower availability than previously assessed. When the government decides that they will continue the acquisition with the current supplier, it means huge delays and large cost increases in relation to the original plan. However, economic and legal relations require the government to do so, and a joint committee supports it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1022	I need to address two issues in this article that are related to the setting we are currently considering and that the rapporteur has prepared. It is the acquisition of new coastguard ships and of the NH90 helicopters. I want to focus on that. From the Labour Party we sent a number of questions to the Ministry about the new coastguard ships. Unfortunately, the answers from the Ministry of Defence were too late to be reflected in the Committee's comments. It is therefore necessary on our part now to make it very clear from this platform that it is disappointing and what I would call very remarkable, to note that the Minister of Defence has chosen to let the contract for command and control systems on the new coastguard vessels go to a foreign actor. In spring 2016, the Stortinget defined a total of eight technological areas of competence to be given priority by examining its own national defence industry strategy because they are essential both for defence and for national security. The first of these areas was precisely command and control systems. It is on that basis that I say it is very remarkable when dealing with this matter that we record that the government and the Minister of Defence have put the Storting's opinion aside on this point. I find it difficult to see that the government has not broken the Storting's assumptions in this case. Here the government had all the options to choose Norwegian, given that the entire acquisition of new coastguard ships takes place by reference to the derogations for national security reasons. Nevertheless, the contract goes to foreign actors. I expect the Council of State in this debate to explain its views on this issue in more detail. There is, of course, also reason to recall that the Norwegian employment situation was justified by the Right-Fremskritsparte government in 2017 when they proposed to accelerate the acquisition of coastguard ships. So the government has not allowed jobs in Norway to benefit from this, it has gone abroad. There is a failure in the logic of the argument. The second is the acquisition of new NH90 helicopters, which have become what I would call a miser. Delays and exceedances have been in line for a long time. We record that, in 2017, the defence equipment refused to terminate the contract, with reference to the supplier's default, based on a legal assessment that there was no legal basis for breaking the contract. But the investment proposition mentions the defense chief's recommendation of 1 February this year to move all the 14 NH90 helicopters to Haakonsvern and the Maritime Defence frigates. Six of the NH90 engines were intended for the Coast Guard with the support of Bardufoss, but now all the helicopters for Haakonsvern. A coastguard without helicopters is a totally unacceptable situation, of course. For the safety of people in our long-range country, it is absolutely essential that we have a modern coastguard with access to helicopters. This applies both across the coast from Hyler to Border Jakobsev and to the sea from the North Sea and up to Svalbard. We are still given examples of the importance of the Coast Guard for lifesaving and security throughout Norway — especially at sea, of course. We are still getting alarming messages, now last Monday last week, that the new rescue helicopters to replace Sea King are much delayed and can only be used in 2021. The lack of political tools and ability to cut through in this matter creates undue uncertainty and uncertainty, such as: has now ended in Defence more than one quarter of the pilots of the Coast Guard helicopters. Unfortunately, neither they nor the population along the coast receive any clear response from this government on the coastal guard helicopters. These two themes are the most essential in dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1033	There's a quiet stream of big investments going to the Defense for the time being. As case rapporteur Liv Signe Navarsete of the Center Party said, there is a huge amount of money going to material investments in the Defence. Yes, it does. Only in this proposition do we deal with investments of 4 billion. kr related to vehicle, weapons, engineering armoured vehicles and rock armoured vehicles. This comes in addition to investments that this government has already made to the Army: new artillery, 24 new shootings, countermeasures for electronic warfare and new combat air protection, which the Army has not had in 14 years. In addition, 360 new field wagons are being launched for the Home Guard and 144 storm armored vehicles have now been upgraded. This tells us that even in the Army, major investments and upgrades are being made. The defence budget has actually increased by 11.5 billion. kr since 2013, and in the current year it increased by 3.8 billion. kr, which amounts to 7.4 pst. It tells us that the structure of the defense is well under way. Step by step, the defense is built up. But it is a powerful, almost insurmountable political challenge to repatriate all sectors of defence at the same time as the main systems of all sectors of defence go about the same day. The sum of all these investments means that Norway is now using 27 pst. of its defence budget on material investments. It is well above the requirement that NATO made at the Wales Summit in 2014, which required that 20 pst. the defence budgets of the countries were to be used for investments. I have not mentioned new submarines, I have not mentioned new fighter aircraft, nor have I mentioned new surveillance aircraft. In sum, this means that Norwegian defence is under construction. Defense becomes better, and our national defense, along with the Allies, will be able to defend us and deter an enemy in a better way than you have been over the last 10 to 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1044	The defense budget is $55 billion. kr. It's 1.56 pst. GDP. Norway is currently using about 26 pst. - not 27 pst. as the representative of the Elves said – of the defence budget for material investments. There is significantly more than the so-called ‘Defence Investment Pudge’ in NATO, where Member States have promised to use at least 20 pst. of the defence costs of material investments. It's important that we don't mention this as a goal, but use the correct word "care" that translates promise. However, Norway and the other NATO Member States have also committed themselves to using 2 pst. of GDP in defence by 2024. The NATO summit in Brussels in July this year will strengthen this commitment. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly, where I am the head of the Stortinges delegation, met in Warsaw last week. There the assembly decided to remove the words ‘aim two’ so that the 2-percent obligation became even more clear. Let it be clear: To achieve this commitment, Norway needs to give higher priority to the defence. A broad majority of the Grand Duchy has supported the long-term plan and the land-use proposition, and it is therefore up to the majority to reach agreement on funding. It includes the Workers' Party. To comply with Norway’s obligation to use 2 pst. of GDP in defence, the defence budget needs a rise of about 12 B.C.E. kr. – not next year, not in 2020, neither in 2021, but in 2024. We have six years. The investment proposal involves the approval of five new material projects in different areas and how these projects will gain capital in the years to come. Most of them are a little controversial. The Progress Party has been clear in debates and in the media, and we want to be equally clear in the Stortinget. The parties representing the majority of the LTP and the Land Power Proposition must find a solution to the expansion of the Army's helicopter capacity, and we must find a solution to speed up the increase of the Army's tank capacity. We don't have time for political games. I want to bring forward the significant industrial opportunities that open up to the Norwegian defence industry at any new acquisition the defense does. It is not that an investment in new material is perceived as ‘sunk cost’. Acquisitions of advanced systems may even be economically viable in the long term. However, the effects are seen in other budgets – this is because the Norwegian defence industry is expanding its high-tech competence and, at the same time, expanding industrial cooperation with the leading defence industry in our co-operation countries. This means that we can increase the operational capacity of the defence and at the same time strengthen the country's high-tech competence. Such competences have synergistic effects on research environments, the high-tech industry and industry in general. It is a question of looking at budgets in the context. However, such links can only be found if one chooses to own instead of renting defence capabilities. The revenue is not on the defence budgets. It is the Minister of Industry who gets the income and boasts that Norwegian industry is doing well. The same goes for the Siv Jensen Ministry of Finance. Your money goes, and it is clear that the Norwegian defence industry contributes significantly. In front of me I have a print from E24, where it says: ‘Milliard contract ensures Norwegian missile breakthrough in the United States.’» It's a It's actually a fantastic contract, and it might be expanded to also deliver NSM missiles to frigates in the United States for 15 billion. kr. It's an incredibly big deal. At the same time, the Kongsberg Group employs new people all the time. Kongsberg's stock prices went up 15 pst. because of this contract. The Norwegian society is making money on the defence industry, and we now have the opportunity to acquire new supplies, new deliveries for both Nammo, Kongsberg and other companies, and the spread of new enterprises in the defence industry. New businesses show up like toad hats around. Then we have to make sure that we invest, because these must be our arguments for new investment also in Defence – better competence, better operational ability, but also better defence industry that can resell worldwide. We do that today. We can do even more of that, and that should be the main argument for us to make investments now – not rent, but own and buy when we can. This capacity we can get hold of now, we don't have to wait years for new budgets – we can do it now, and that's my call to the Minister of Defence: do it now and tell the rest of the government – do it now!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1070	For the government, it is important to follow up the priorities and the defence structure agreed upon by the Stortingen on the current long-term defence plan in 2016. The proposals presented in this proposition show that the government is following the long-term plan. The proposal proposes the approval of investments in material for about 10.8 billion. kr and investments in properties, buildings and structures for about 1,5 billion. kr. All investments are important in order to continue the modernisation of the defence. Furthermore, the government follows up three request decisions in the proposal. In addition, the proposition also contains information on three other issues that the government is working on further. Through the treatment of the Land Power Proposition by the Storting, it was decided that the Army would also have a modern tank capacity in the future as an important element of the mechanised structure. However, a mechanised structure depends on several supporting vehicles to ensure the implementation of the operations. Six rescue tanks on the Leopard 2-chassis are already under purchase for the Army. With the two projects for the acquisition of six broiler armoured wagons and six engineered armoured wagons on Leopard 2-chassis respectively, the government adds capacity to the army's mechanised structure. The three helicopter-bearing coastguard vessels in the North Cape class were put into service at the beginning of the 1980s and will reach their technical life span around 2020. The project for new coastguard vessels intends to continue the capacity and capacity of the Coast Guard to carry out the tasks provided by the Coast Guard Act by replacing these vessels with three new vessels from 2022. I record that there have been criticisms because we do not just trade Norwegian equipment. The command and control systems of the new ships shall be taken from the three North Cape class ships to be phased out, simply because this is relatively new equipment being upgraded and will be ‘top of the art’ in 2020. So we're reusing old equipment, taking it over to the new ships, simply because the upgrade makes this top modern equipment. So it's not like we don't want to do anything new, but it's a good and sensible economy to use this equipment further. In view of the decision taken by the Storting in examining the last two long-term plans for the defence sector, the government has promoted two investment projects at Evenes. Both projects are a prerequisite for and progressual importance for the establishment of the Evenes Air Station as an advanced operating base for F-35, as the base of NATO’s fighting gear, and as the base of the Defense Maritime Patrol Aircraft, P-8. Furthermore, the establishment of both F-35 and P-8 requires measures to prevent accidental access by both personnel and vehicles to the flight station. Both projects are within the overall financial framework laid down for the development of Evenes. The majority has asked the government to review the NH-90 contract. Although the project is severely delayed in relation to the initial delivery plan, the government's review shows that continuing the NH-90 project is the option that will best meet the defence's needs for maritime helicopters. Seven helicopters have now been delivered to Norway, six helicopters in a preliminary version and one helicopter in a final version. A revised delivery agreement has been concluded whereby the remaining helicopter shall be delivered to Norway by the end of 2019 and the first six helicopters shall be upgraded during the period 2018 to 2022. The Ministry of Defence follows this acquisition very closely. So to the concerns about the chief of defense's priorities. The head of defense says that given the number of hours you can keep these helicopters in the air, he will give priority to the frigate weapon instead of the Coast Guard. We have not concluded on this matter. At the same time, we have also said that the Coast Guard should have a helicopter. And it's not like the representative of Kolberg here claims, that the Chief of Defense's recommendation will lead to all the helicopters landing at Haakonsvern in Bergen. No, the frigates also sail much in the north, and it is a prerequisite that the helicopters to be on Bardufoss should be on Bardufoss. But as I said, we've been very clear that the Coast Guard is going to have a helicopter, and we haven't concluded on the recommendation to the head of defense, simply because the Defence Research Institute and Defence Equipment are now working to sharpen it, what we can actually get out of that capacity. The size has asked the government to make visible, in particular, two aspects related to the acquisition of new coastguard vessels. There are strict environmental and emissions requirements and the class requirements of the DNV GL have been used for the acquisition of the ships. In addition, future emission requirements notified have been introduced. The acquisition contributes to the maintenance of a national competence by going to a Norwegian yard for the main contract. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Committee is joining in on the government's proposal for investment in defence. Projects are all important contributions to maintaining credible and relevant defence in a more demanding security policy time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1093	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1098	It has been referred to NATO's objectives, and not least the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde was very clear that the government and the Minister of Defence now need to get up to a escalation that allows us to come where NATO has seen itself as the goal, that we should use 2 pst. of GDP in defence in 2024. There are many reasons why it should be done. Although the representative of the Harek Rivers boasted very much of what is being presented today, we know that there are major challenges to funding, not least of the rural power in the future. Shares the views of the Council of State representative Tybring-Gjedde, and, insofar as its own national meeting decision, that by 2024 Norway must have achieved a step up to 2 pst. of GDP in defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1105	We've discussed this a number of times. Gross domestic product is a rather volatile size to depend on. Yes, we share the understanding of the decision made in Wales. We've said that we're committed to moving towards the 2 percent. At the same time, it's a little important to be aware of how we plan to modernise the defense. We have four-year plans, we have said that we made a track in 2016 until 2020, and we are now going to start setting out the framework and working out a new long-term plan that will apply from 2021 to 2024. There we want to point to the commitments we have towards NATO – clearly. But it is important not just to jump after volatile changes in gross domestic product. For us, it's important to see what we put in, what we get out, how we relate to the adopted plan. That's how we do good conversions in an institution that needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1112	Now, Norway is one of many NATO countries, which has made the same commitment to have the goal of achieving the 2-percentile. Interestingly, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which I myself am a member, reinforces these wordings. There are parliamentarians from all NATO countries, from the parliaments that decide on budgets in each country. As it turns out, it's exciting to see if the NATO Summit will strengthen that commitment. It shouldn't surprise me if you do it, when you see the pressure like, for example. The United States is wearing this. It is easy to right that the Council of State is talking a little bit about, and it is not just in Norway that gross domestic product goes up and down a little bit. It also does so in other countries. What makes Norway so special that one cannot keep to the same 2 percentage points that other NATO countries do?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1120	I feel that we are dealing with the commitments that were adopted at the Wales meeting, very much like many other NATO countries. But it's important for me to point out that there are heavy processes we're in now -- there's big investments, big changes in defense, we spend a lot of money, and it's important that we do things right. Then it's a little important that we focus on those processes -- see what we put in money, see what we get out of material and resources. Then we are obliged to that decision in Wales, and we have said that we now have a long-term plan that runs until 2020. We're going to come up with a new long-term plan from 2021 to 2024. We will point to how we are going to meet our NATO commitments, also in the long-term plan that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1127	I also want to talk about the debate on the NH90 and the helicopter. The debate on the long-term plan even claimed that NH90 helicopters could be used by the Army. It's perfectly rebuttable, both for technical and for other reasons, not least with the cost bit – it would be a huge increase in cost if you were to use the NH90, which is simply not appropriate for the purpose. Then the council of state addressed the representative who said that it was now agreed to move to Haakonsvern, and said that the helicopters that were to be at Bardufoss should be at Bardufoss. Can the Council confirm that six NH90 helicopters will be stationed at Bardufoss?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1134	I believe there are eight who are going to be at Bardufoss and six who are going to be in Bergen – it is possible I am wrong. Yes, I can confirm that. There is nothing in the Chief of Defense's recommendation that those machines should not be on Bardufoss. Then we have to remember that the helicopter discussion in the north has been about the army's needs, it has been about the defence needs, it has been about the police's need to get assistance from the defense, and it has been about the health care system's need to get assistance from the defense. Work is now under way in all three floors to work out the new helicopter offer that will come into effect this summer. It will increase capacity in health. Justice is working on its own to find alternative changes. The defense looks at the possibilities of renting, perhaps in combination and cooperation with justice, perhaps in cooperation with health, in order to be able to hold still with alternative capacity. And then it's all according to what you're going to use the helicopter for. The fact that the NH90 can be used is not refuted. No, the only thing that's so far true is that the NH90 is expensive to fly. But it's a very good helicopter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1143	The cost of a flight time for NH90 is gigantic compared to, for example: The helicopters that the Army is using today, Bell-helicopter. It's pretty interesting to the right state council answer about everybody working. It sounds like everyone's working separately – justice alone, defense alone, and everybody's looking at what they can do in a sector. I hope that the government also sees that they have a role in actually getting these to work together. But that's not what I want to ask you. I would like to ask how the Council of State will find a satisfactory arrangement for Coast Guards, so that Coast Guards that are so important to a coastal country like Norway can operate in the way that one should do – and not as today, where one does not have the ability to do all the functions when one does not have a helicopter available. And when can the Storting get an answer to that, if he can't answer me today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1150	First, if I couldn't have said anything about what justice is working on, and if I couldn't have said anything about what health is working on, probably the representative Navarsete would have concluded that everyone is working on their own. In my answer, it was also a pretty clear description that we work closely, we work well, and we work together to solve this. So, in the case of NH90, there's now a study in the FFI, and defence equipment is inside and looking at maintenance routines. What can you do to make this machine cheaper to fly, what can you do to reduce the maintenance costs? We have good competence in this. We put about a world record in flying Sea King, which is 40-year-old machines. In many fields, we show that we are a country with good helicopter capacity. We're going to get this type of procedure, and then we're going to get a good answer on the NH90. I hope not to take that very long, but I dare not here to promise when. And then I've always said that I'm taking the helicopter situation for the Coast Guard in the highest seriousness, precisely because I know how important it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1159	Taking the situation of the Coast Guard in the highest seriousness is not so much forward-looking. That's what state councils – and I know that from good experience themselves – say when a person really doesn't have an answer. Then you say that one takes it seriously, that one should follow the case carefully, that one should do all one can, etc. I think Stortinget expects to get a better answer than that. Then one can also, when one now sees the lack of helicopter capacity, ask the question if it is proper medicine to suggest moving Bell-helicoptra to South Norway, i.e. ribbing North Norway for even more helicopter capacity when the NH90 is not working – and who knows what time they are going to work satisfactorily; there are some different analyses of it. Isn't it clear to the council that it would have made sense to keep Bell-helicopters on Bardufoss until one at least is sure that one has found another good solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1166	I'm going to be careful to go into some depth analysis of how credible it would have been if Liv Signe Navarse had said she took it very seriously. But I'm honest – I'm born and raised on the coast, I've worked in the fishing fleet, for the fishing fleet, I've worked at the airport, I've ‘traded’ air ambulance aircraft – well, I know how important that resource is to the coastal population in the north, in the west and in the south. And when I say that I'm taking it very seriously, it's okay if the representative chooses not to believe me. But I'm serious. Then it's clear that if you had enough resources, it wouldn't have been dangerous. But there's also a point that we've decided in the long-term plan that the special forces are going to prepare an operation where they use helicopters, for two reasons. It is an important special strength operation for, among other things, hybrid warfare and warfare in densely populated areas, and it is an important complement to the preparedness for terrorism. Then we're on those priorities. It's hard. We think we should be able to deliver good solutions – I don't think everyone will be satisfied [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1173	Time's up. Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1182	Now maybe I could give up, because I asked the Council of State a lot of what I was going to do. As spokesman for the case, I have held one, I would say, reasonablely neutral posts, but after hearing the representatives Harek Elvenes’ and Christian Tybring-Gjeddes – in each way – rather forward-looking posts, I may have to say a little more from the Centre Party’s stand. The representative of the Rivers referred in his statement to NATO's objectives, and that Norway is within the 20 pst requirement. of the budget for investment. That's very good. The representative does not mention NATO's demands in terms of tanks, and that, like other countries, we should have a fully-fledged mechanized brigade, not a 2nd Battalion with civil summons aid in a crisis situation, as the government suggests. It's striking what a selectively chooses to ingest and decorate. Is something wrong, the reason for it is of course back in another government's time. When it comes to helicopters, it's pretty serious for North Norway, what's happening now. Even if it's not in this case – here's the NH90 – there's reason to remind you that by moving Bell-helicoptra, both the defense loses what they need for lifting capacity, and the police in the north lose their access. In addition, we have recently seen the importance for the health sector of having access to helicopters when other systems fail. The NH90 will never be what we thought they would be when it was decided to get them helicopters. It's a shame, because it's actually a very good helicopter, it's just that for some reason one doesn't get it. One might hope that the government now has good expectations for the operation of the helicopters, based on what they have assessed. But in any case, they will not solve the challenges of both the Army, health and police when it comes to access, and not least the Coast Guard. I'm very concerned about Coast Guard. We know it's going to be more, not less, activity in the north, and we know that the Coast Guard gets more, not less, to do in the north. Ensuring good capacity on the helicopter for both the Coast Guard and the Army must be the first priority in the future work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1197	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1213	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1224	The summary of the Ombudsman shows to a large extent that trustees carry out their tasks in a good way. The reports tell us about thorough briefings that give the Ombudsman the opportunity to make his or her assessments. In addition, hectic days of high intensity are described which do not hinder good culture and management. The Ombudsman shall, following the instructions adopted by the European Parliament, contribute to the safeguarding of the general human rights of defence personnel. The aim of the study is also to help improve the effectiveness of defence. It is positive that the denominator has a broad composition and a good background of experience. The Ombudsman has carried out several inspections in 2017, including Rygge Airbase, the Telemark Battalion in Rena Leir, the Garden School at the Terningmoen, Andøya Air Station, Ramsund War Station and the Defence Veterinary Centre in Bäreia. In addition, there are meetings of their own, both with the Minister of Defence, the Chief of Air Force, the Veteran Inspector and others. It is self-detected that there is good leadership with clear opinions and a strong willingness to cooperate in the areas of Defence. Norwegian security officers are highly motivated and cooperate well with the other employees of the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1235	In this context, let me briefly take advantage of the opportunity to thank Ombudsman and the staff for their efforts to join the Defence Force. In addition, and very briefly, I would like to mention the role of Ombudsman in the broader work of our veterans. The Ombudsman’s topic is that the municipal sector needs to establish a plan for our veterans more fully, and the committee agrees. There are interesting and important proposals here that the Ombodsmann Study should change its mandate in order to have a greater formal responsibility and to preserve the veterans. This is the recommendation, to which a consensual committee agrees, and to which one from both government and accumulation must make sure that it is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1242	I am of the clear opinion that the introduction of a general duty of protection has been a success. The reform has been favourably received by both the Defence and the Protective. In 2018, two years have passed since the first vulnerable women met in the Defence Service. The proportion of women under protection is increasing, and both male and female guardians thrive in the service. The defence has worked systematically and with the aim of adapting and acquiring the necessary clothing and equipment for those under protection. Work has produced positive results. The defence emphasises that all should have proper equipment when meeting at their service. Protective persons are trained to take care of the equipment and managers are trained to perform their duties on the basis of the expertise and equipment available. The work on adapting the building mass also shows progress. Defence build ear tags and distribute 10 million. kr annually for projects which can improve the conditions of the persons liable for protection rapidly. The distribution of funds takes place in close cooperation with the Defence and the trustees. I am pleased that both the committee and the committee highlight the importance of the good and holistic care of the soldiers. One of the measures implemented by the Defence is the revision of the Defence Service Regulations. The rules of procedure will provide guidance and requirements for the provision of welfare in all departments. The provision of career guidance and continuing training is ensured by the Defence through online solutions. The content of the services is continuously updated and further developed in line with the national offer. The Committee shares the view of the board of trustees that the school's renewal should facilitate students to learn more about defence and protection. I support the Committee's view and will ask the Ministry to follow up this work. The Committee also refers to the proposal of the guardians on education at the Fachskolan on combating sexual harassment. The defence works continuously and purposefully to prevent sexual harassment, among other things. through the training of new leaders and crews. A new mandatory instruction system aimed at the guardians will be in place already at the time of the admission of new recruits this summer. The defence sector is undergoing several major and important conversion processes. This is demanding for the staff. Like the one mentioned, I am impressed by the employees of the Defence Agency and the work that is being done. The Committee notes that the conversion of personnel management creates challenges in Telemark battalion. The internal audit of the Defence Manager has reviewed the status and achievement of the objectives after the end of the personnel conversion. The process is further evaluated by the Defence in cooperation with the Employees’ Organisations and the Protection Service. The evaluation will be able to trigger measures and changes to the resource base for conversion. The challenge of ongoing conversion is addressed regularly at all levels of the Defence and is dealt with firmly in the Defence's main work environment committee. Veterinary work is a priority matter for the government. In the follow-up plan in service to Norway, the government states that municipal action plans should be drawn up. It is gratifying to see that the Committee supports the view that the municipal sector needs to establish plans for the conservation of veterans to a greater extent. I also welcome the fact that the Committee supports the denominator’s recommendation to amend the current instructions for the Ombudsman. I refer you to my letter to the President of Stortinget on 20 March 2018. Like the denominator, I believe that the instructions for the denominator should be amended so that the defence veterans after the end of service in international operations are also included. I will end by thanking all the personnel in the Defence Department for the job they are doing. It's very happy to see that so many want to contribute to something larger than themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1265	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 7 and 8 are treated together. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1294	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: 15 minutes, 15 minutes, right 15 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes for the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes for the Green Party, 5 minutes for the Green Party and 5 minutes for the Red Party. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1305	First, I must be allowed to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on a very demanding matter. The size decided in 2016 that the 333-square of the Air Force on Andøya should be moved to Evenes. The long-term defence plan assumes that the Evene Air Station shall be the main base for military patrol aeroplanes and forward base of operations for fighter aircraft protected by air protection and the necessary base support functions. The plan is that the maritime surveillance aircraft should be able to operate from the summer of 2022. Following the collapse decision in November 2016, a draft selection inquiry has been carried out to ensure the quality of the assumption, need and cost assessment underlying the selection of the Evenes Air Station as the base for the maritime surveillance aeroplanes. In addition, an external quality assurance of that concept selection inquiry has been carried out for the Planes Aviation Station, in line with the guidelines laid down by the Ministry of Finance’s High State Investment Quality Assurance Scheme. There are a number of operational needs and requirements to be met at the Level Aviation Station. Briefly summarised, it shall be possible to collect the fighting aircraft at Evenes, and the base shall also be usable for maritime surveillance aeroplanes. Air protection requirements have been imposed and the aircraft station of Evene shall be capable of receiving and supporting allied reinforcement forces complying with the applicable NATO requirements. There are also requirements for capacity expansion opportunities for both national and allied capacities. The draft selection inquiry has analysed four different options to address the overall needs – as I have explained – at Evens in the best possible way. There is little difference in the investment costs related to the four different options explored. Costs vary from 4.122 billion. kr to 4,407 br. kr, i.e. a small cost difference related to the investment cost of the four different options. The draft selection investigation recommends option 2 with the maritime patrol aeroplanes located on the west side of the runway. The investment cost is, as I said, estimated at 4 122 billion. kr. As recommended by the Ministry of Defence in that draft selection inquiry, the external quality assurance also recommends option 2. For those with local knowledge – and there may be some people here in the room who have local knowledge of Evenes – this means that the fighter aircraft are placed in the northern ‘shalters’ in the east, and that the reception of allies and national forces is resolved at existing locations for the C5 aeroplanes in the east, next to hangar 4. The maritime surveillance aeroplanes shall be placed west of the runway. The external quality insurer has calculated the expected investment cost for options 2 to 4,440 billion. NOK 300 million. kr higher than the investment cost incurred by the draft selection inquiry. This represents approximately 6.5 pst. of the total investment cost of the project. Both the draft selection inquiry and the external quality insurer have calculated the cost of the necessary investments at Evenes. The calculations should not be confused with the cost analysis underlying the difference in costs by bringing everything together at Evenes versus a shared solution. It's another one where the investment cost of Evens is included. But that calculation shows a huge extra cost of having a shared solution compared to collecting this on Evens. Finally, as I said at the outset, the decision to shut down Andeya Air Station has been extremely demanding. The closure of Andøya Air Station is the single measure in the long-term plan which has the most negative local effect. However, government and enlargement have made the necessary priorities on the basis of an extremely well-established case, and the Storting decision is the solution that provides the best operational capability at the lowest cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1324	Following the adoption of the long-term defence plan here in this room late in 2016, a number of questions were raised on the basis of the decision to move the base of the maritime surveillance aircraft from Andøya and the gathering of the forward fighter base on Evenes. A unanimous Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence also instructed the government to review the long-term plan and return to the Stortinget in the revised national budget in spring 2017 if there were to be ‘significant changes’, it stated in the decision-making basis for the assembly. The majority did not receive any information from the government on changes in the numerical basis of the draft revised national budget in spring 2017. However, the criticism of the decision-making basis did not substantiate. The objections to the Evenes meeting were simply summed up in two respects: the one was about space, the other was about costs. In the course of the election campaign, the government party also contributed, unfortunately, with its irresponsible and incoherent actions to spread uncertainty, including on the government's own assessments, for example. through this statement to the magazine Vesterålen: ‘The government must present a new independent investigation into the future of Andyya Aviation Station so that Stortinget can reconsider its assessment.’ That is what the representatives of the Finance Minister's party said. From the Workers' Party, we were committed to taking seriously the objections and concerns from the trustees, the peoples and the defence community. We would not on autopilot reject all the objections. In addition to that uncertainty created by the Progress Party, there was also a clear need to rebuild confidence in the process and the basis for the decisions in the long-term plan. That's why last summer we announced that we wanted a review of the decision-making basis for the Evenes meeting. In Stortinget, we presented proposals on just such an up-to-date review of figures and facts, and in April we were finally presented with an external and internal review of the Evenes Collection, an internal draft selection inquiry for the Evenes Development and an external quality assurance of this investigation. As mentioned above, the objections to Evenes were mainly concentrated on two aspects: space and costs. Both reports concluded that there was room for what should be available at Evenes. The review also shows that there appears to be a record of cost estimates. Yes, the quality assurance report operates with a higher sum of the investment costs at Evenes, but most of the difference is made up of costs resulting from NATO inspection and costs that would also be incurred if the aircraft were still on Andøya. However, there is no doubt that the Ministry of Defence has a heavy responsibility to ensure progress and not least to control costs in the further development of Evenes. From the Workers' Party we have asked almost 40 public questions about the decision-making basis for the Evenes development. Finally, there is a time when the conclusion has to be drawn and the decision has to be taken. In October, it was three years since the head of defense in his professional military council recommended to shut down Andeya Air Station. Today we have already discussed – and will adopt this evening – the annual investment proposal for the Defence. The proposition includes important decisions for Evens. If we can't make a decision today, we're at risk of delaying the important phase-in of the new P-8 Poseidon planes. Yes, it is unfortunately obvious that the review of the decision-making basis has not yet achieved the objective of restoring confidence in the preparation and decision-making basis. We have to admit that. Finally, however, a decision must be taken. After a comprehensive process, the Workers’ Party has stated that we cannot see that the information that has emerged constitutes significant changes to the decision-making basis. We stand by the resolution on the Evenes meeting. The rationale for the base choice can be summarised in two basic contexts: economy and air protection. One base is cheaper than two, and our national defense capability is strengthened when we can operate the new surveillance aircraft from a base protected by air protection. Over time, one base is cheaper than two. The difference between the collection and the split solution is 200 million. kr annually in operation, i.e. 4 billion. kr over a period of 20 years. It will also not be free to phase in the new P-8 planes if they were to be on Andøya. The investment costs in Andøya with a shared solution are intended for 1 billion. kr. The Defence Manager has been clear on the need for air protection at Evenes. In an article published on the Defence's own website now in May, he says: ‘Get the security policy situation and developments in weapons technology, we need air protection to protect air defence bases and aircraft. For our maritime patrol aircraft, having air protection where they have the base could provide greater flexibility in a crisis situation. [[...]] Kampfly and maritime patrol planes are vulnerable when they're on the ground. With Evenes we get a base protected with air protection, which increases the possibility that the aircraft are available for operations also in crisis and in high intensity operations.» So that's what the head of defense says. That we can operate the surveillance aircraft from a protected base is also a matter of our security policy maritime law. This is a job that we as a nation ship should do, even when the level of conflict around us eats up. The fact that we are doing this job is a contribution to avoiding further escalation in an acute situation. It is also important for safety policy maritime councils that we have the modern Poseidon planes seagoing. Unfortunately, there were several parties who, in the treatment of the long-term plan, would push on or drop investment in new surveillance aircraft. Then, in my opinion, we would have lost maritime safety policy rights. Until the early 1990s, we had our own air protection systems for the surveillance planes on Andeya, but the times are changing. The same is true of the security policy landscape around us and of technological developments. The new aircraft also make up something different and new compared to today's Orion aircraft. Yes, it is possible to imagine the same air coverage on the Andes as on the Evenes. But it would be very expensive. The same air force on the Andes as on the Evenes would cost $3.5 billion. kr in investments, with both NASAMS Battlegroup, Long-range Air Protection and Property, Construction and Facilities. And then 1.7 billion is going to be right over there. NOK in operation over 20 years – a total additional cost of 5.2 billion. kr. Also, the model chosen for Ørland and Værnes with two flexible combat protection groups would be very expensive for Andes and Evenes, 3.5 billion. SEK in investments plus SEK 1.7 billion. kr in operation over 20 years. One aspect, however, is that we need to change, and this is about our national infrastructure for receiving allied reinforcements. We believe that Andøya should be given an emergency role as a reinforcement base for alliert reception. The core elements of an allied reinforcement base are the long runway and the fuel installation. Which other elements should also be included need to be clarified in consultation with NATO and our allies. The size has already decided that the long runway on Andøya should in any case be continued. What happens to the other infrastructure today must also be clarified in dialogue with the municipality and with regard to other potential business activities, and not least Andøya Test Center. We expect the government to return to Stortinget in the state budget for 2019 with updated infrastructure plans for alliert reception. The Andøya community has been sacrificing itself for decades and putting it up for defense. Now the Storting must set up for the Andeya community. As early as the autumn of 2016, the size decided that the State had to make exceptional State efforts for Andeya and grant funds for good and effective conversion programmes to strengthen business and contribute to the creation of new jobs. Here the government has delivered too little and too little, including in the revised national budget, which we are now going to deal with. Another area where, according to my assessment, the government does not deliver well enough is measures to prevent the flow of skills from today's Orion environment in Andeya. The chief of defense visited Andøya last Friday. He then said that action would be taken on the following Monday, i.e. yesterday, to stop further flight of skills. It's too late, and I can't see that the measures are good enough. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Defence and the Government. We are now entering a difficult transition from Orion to new Poseidon aircraft. It is vital for the safety of both Norway and our allies that we continuously and without delay maintain the capacity and ability to keep track of our own seas. Cooperation with allies is important, well and good, but our national security is clearly best served by our own ability to monitor our own seas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1368	The decision that the majority are about to implement to shut down the airstation on Andeya and move it to Evenes is one of the worst-founded decisions in recent times. The Government and the Labour Party's plan to shut down Andeya Air Station will weaken Norwegian defence capabilities and the security of Norwegian citizens. The decision can quickly prove to be a loss of billions of dollars, tearing from each other a top-functioning professional environment and draining a vital community for important workplaces. A joint committee, when managing the national budget, indicated that the government would return to the United Kingdom in the revised national budget in the event of substantial changes in the decision-making basis. There have been significant changes in the decision-making basis for the closure of Andeya airstation. On page 11 of the concept evaluation, KVU, there is one another: ‘Evenes shall take over the role of host base for allied maritime patrol aeroplanes after the closure of Andøya airstation, both in terms of drills and mission. With regard to other allied needs covered at Andøya Air Station today, it has not been assumed that these are transferred to the Evene Air Station.’» This must be interpreted as meaning that Evenes shall not be specifically responsible for the reception of allied fighter aircraft. Both the government and the Labour Party long founded the decommissioning of Andeya Air Station with missing air protection. On the Right's home page, you can read: ‘Future weapons development and modern warfare make it essential that both fighter and maritime surveillance aircraft come within the protection of long-range air protection.’ This type of propaganda was the government party feeding the Workers' Party before the landfill treatment. When the Labour Party took a decision, the leader of the Foreign and Defence Committee, Anniken Huitfeldt, said that the Labour Party wanted to save Andeya's air station, but that it was a decisive argument for her that a modern monitoring base needs air protection. Let it be established once and for all that air protection was a decisive argument that the Labour Party went in with support of its government proposal. Everything during the management of the long-term plan confirmed the government: ‘Determining consumption of Norwegian fighter aircraft, maritime surveillance aeroplanes and allied aeroplanes, respectively, will not be able to occur simultaneously, on the basis of other limiting factors and operational assessments.’» [[...]] In a war, of course, fighter aircraft should be on Evenes when one has determined it. So no surveillance planes should be there, follow the answer that the government gave. The quality assurance KS1 of the concept evaluation for Evenes air station confirms this. It says: ‘We understand how it is not planned to operate MPA from Evenes during high intensity operations. We miss an explanation on how the MPAs are going to solve their tasks in the northern regions in an armed conflict. This should have been determined." Amen! At a meeting with manufacturers from the United States, it was claimed to me that Norway is now having talks with both Iceland and the United Kingdom about any base business for P-8 in a war situation. I have never received that confirmation from the Norwegian side, but it was said as a self-evident thing, which I should clearly know as a member of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. So much about it. But on April 18th, the NRK could discover: ‘Bakke-Jensen rejects the use of air protection for the maritime surveillance aeroplanes as a decisive argument for selecting Evenes as a new base. – A shared solution was not chosen because this was too expensive anyway,” says Bakke-Jensen. Okay. So air protection is no longer a decisive argument. Surveillance aircraft, as the quality assurance stated, are not intended to be used in a war zone or in the KS1 as high intensity operations. What about the cost argument, which the Right's current Minister of Defense claimed was decisive to shut down Andeya Air Station? In the KVU there are several that have shown that the current project at Evenes must monitor a construction step 2 if the base is to be satisfactory. The NATO inspection that has been carried out has led to a significant increase in costs. The government doesn't know where to get allied flights, and does not know what to cost. It won't be for free. That knowledge should and should have been ours today – before we make this decision. The Central Party has long warned against human rights violations as a consequence of its decisions by the Government and the Labour Party. Now the head of defense also calls for alerts. He warned last Friday of emergency measures to prevent 133 Airwings and 333 Squadron operating P-3 from collapsing. So far, over 30 have ended, and 10 to 20 consider doing the same thing. The Web site www.aldrimer.no, which has proven to have very good sources both in the Defense and in NATO, writes today with reference to both Norwegian and foreign sources that during June the United States will take over large parts of the ongoing maritime surveillance of the Barents Sea until five P-8 Poseidon from the US Navy is expected to Andy Island, and it is unclear how long they will be there. I hope the Council of State will do some good for this in its article, so we'll know what's true, and what's false. I'm taking up the suggestions that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1415	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1420	We are discussing a matter that is handled in a slightly trusting way, which is bad for an entire community, and which creates great frustration in many of the defenses. Now that we have another review in Stortinget, I believe it is clear that the position that, among other things, SV has taken, to go against a one-base solution and instead go for a divided solution between Evenes and Andøya, was a good and correct position, and we stand by it. Let me take the economy first. It is said by the government that everything that has been presented confirms what the government has done in the past, but there is still considerable uncertainty about the total costs associated with the solution chosen by the majority. There is still reason to ask questions about the quality of the figures provided and that the total calculation has not been reviewed or provided. The figures we have seen do not include decommissioning costs and removal costs, nor the establishment of emergency bases. So it's still unclear why a one-base solution is cheaper than a two-base solution. So for air protection: it is necessary to establish – and here I agree with the representative of Navarsete – that the air protection argument has been a crown argument for the views of the government and the Workers' Party all the way. Let me quote what's in KS1: ‘We understand that it is not planned to operate MPA from Evens during high intensity operations. We miss an explanation on how the MPAs are going to solve their tasks in the northern regions in an armed conflict. This should have been determined." So the aeroplanes are not to be present in a crisis situation. It is very clear now that the air defence argument has been substituting and, in reality, not a good argument for the choice of solution that the majority has put forward. It is serious, because it has been so central to the argument in this case all the way. When our security policy right of self-determination is addressed, it is precisely that with protected bases that is the point, and if that argument does not apply in a war and crisis situation, the preconditions and premises for this decision are completely different. For our proposals, we still believe that there is a need to get a new overview of the total cost of setting up a one-base solution at Evenes. We insist that the best solution is the continuation of Andøya Air Station as the base, and will, along with other parties, propose it again. I think there's reason to dwell on the two main points: the air-protection drug is gone, revealed as substituting argument. The cost picture is still not clear. There is reason to fear that the decision taken by the majority today, by rejecting our proposals, could provide another example of exceedances and costs associated with a large investment in the defence that the Storting did not have an overview of when the Storting made its decision. If there's one thing we don't need, there are several defense scandals, and at the top of it all, we don't need one that affects an entire community, and for which a whole community pays a high price. People in Andøy had earned better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1440	I only have one message for the assembly today. The left believes that Andøya, not Evenes, is best suited as the base for Norway’s maritime surveillance aircraft. When Stortinget examined the decision to move the aircraft from Andøya to Evenes in 2016, the Left opposed the decision. We asked questions about the decision-making basis and that Andøya was not presented to Evenes in a proper and comparable way. We did not get the majority in 2016. The Party of Workers, the Right Party and the Advance Party decided to move to Evenes. We believe that it was a poor decision, but we respect the fact that the majority has spoken, and believe that the majority must also stand for that decision. During the 2017 election campaign, doubts were again raised about the Workers' Party's position on the move. At this point, we saw that it could be possible to move the decision to obtain a solution that served Norwegian defence capabilities. That opportunity buried the Workers' Party on 9 May, when they made it clear that they were standing firm on their original decision. On 9 May the Labour Party passed away these two proposals for representatives. The majority insist that the maritime surveillance planes are moved to Evenes. We have to recognise that decision in the minority, even if we think it is a crazy decision. So today we are not voting in favour of these two proposals that the Workers' Party let die by standing on its 2016 decision. The vote today is not for or against Andøya or Evenes, but a vote on two exploratory proposals without a majority in the UK. The left will not undermine government cooperation by voting against its own government in favour of two proposals without a majority and a future. Instead, I would urge that, together with all the other parties on Stortinget, we now provide the best possible solution. We must ensure that the budgetary framework is maintained, that the professional environment is maintained in the best possible way, and that the solution adopted by the majority contributes to improved defence capabilities. We have a job to do for the Defense and for the local population on Andeya and Evenes, and it is today more important than making symbol markers for two proposals that will not have a majority in this room and that will contribute to nothing but creating uncertainty about the future of the surveillance planes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1453	When the long-term defence plan was being dealt with in Stortinget, the Christian People's Party went in to continue the Andeya Air Station as the base for maritime surveillance flights, and we still do. As we see it, there is no subsequent new information that attracts another hold. On the contrary, information that has emerged after the decision is supported by our position. Firstly, the need for air protection was an authoritative argument from the government towards a shared solution between Andøya and Evenes. It was underlined that if the surveillance planes were stationed on Andøya, one of them had to deploy them to another base at a given threat level. Now it turns out, as representatives Liv Signe Navarsete and Audun Lysbaken have clearly underlined in this debate, that one in any case does not plan to operate these planes from Evenes during a high-intensity operation. In this way, the government is putting forward its arguments on air pollution that were significantly weakened in this debate. Secondly, the Stortinget made its decision on the assumption that Evenes would be a one-base and cover the functions that And Island today covers. But it has become clear that Evenes will not take over the responsibility Andøya has had when it is due to the receipt of allied fighter aircraft. The current solution is a collection of Evenes, with other airports as a standby base. The government has subsequently launched an outsourcing of future base structures and the reception of allied forces. So the government and the Workers' Party have decided to shut down Andeya Air Station before one has cleared up the finite base structure and receiving allied forces. It may turn out to be a big mistake. The costs of setting up and operating new emergency bases are also not part of the concept evaluation. It's a significant weakness. Putting down Andeya Air Station, at the risk that the competence that is there and that is built up over a long period of time, wetters – it's serious. The Christian People's Party has always believed that a shared solution between Andøya and Evenes, where Andøya is passed on as the base for maritime surveillance aircraft, is the best solution. It's the best solution for Defence and our defense, it's the best solution for Andeya – yes, it's the best solution for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1468	The decision of the Storting in 2016 to move the maritime surveillance planes from Andøya to Evenes has put a lot of sense into cooking. The commitment we have seen from local people, local politicians and a whole part of the country has been formidable. It has made a big impression on us in the Green Party. The involvement of professionals, former officers and trustees has shown us the core values of the defence translated into practice. Such a core value is to venture to say away if an action is contrary to what is right, even when we are confronted with demanding choices. That's exactly what we've been witnessing in this case lately. Following the decision, there has been information that had not been made available before the decision of the Storting, and there is much that, with respect to reporting, cannot be explained, nor can it be defended. All parties and all parties – the defence in particular – had benefited from the process coming straight out from the start. So much doubt has now been raised about this matter that the Green Party has seen the need to ask the National Audit Office to examine whether its own guidelines for large investments have been followed and whether the process has been such that it has provided the necessary confidence in the population. According to the government’s own guidelines, a concept selection inquiry should be carried out before choosing a concept – that’s in the name. But it wasn't like that. The report on the basis of which the decision was taken in 2016 was undoubtedly not part of the KS regime. Nor was the report quality assured, as indicated in the guidelines. Nevertheless, the government claimed that it would be more reasonable to build a new airbase on Evenes than to keep the one we have on Andeya. This is not good enough. Now we're going to show another of the core values of the defense, that's against. We're going to have the courage to stop and take the time to figure out before we decide. That's always wise. That is why the Green Party supports the proposal of the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party and asks for a new review of the costs and consequences of the closure of Andøya Air Station. This will be based on own guidelines for large-scale investment in the country – concept selection before choosing the concept, not after. This will restore confidence that the Storting will make its decisions on the right basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1479	The long-term defence sector plan, «Pullage and sustainability», represents a historic strengthening of defence capabilities through a strong increase in the defence budget and a commitment to central and forward-looking capabilities. The objective is increased operational capability and a long-term and sustainable balance between defence tasks, structure and economy. The defence sector is also required to be streamlined in order to maximise operational capability for each defence crown. So we have to use our resources on the capacities and the activity that give the best operational effect. It is not sustainable to maintain all established structures, bases and capacities. Strengthening defence requires major change and tough priorities. The choices may fall heavily on the chest, but often they must be taken. There has been a heated debate on Andøya and Evenes over a long time. There have been critical questions about whether Evenes will be able to serve as the base for both maritime patrol aircraft, fighter aircraft, allies and civil aircraft. It's understandable in such a process; it's allowed to disagree. Unfortunately, the debate has focused on details and the small things, while the whole of the long-term plan and how it contributes to a historic boost to defence ability can easily be lost in sight. I have to mention that in the reasons for the representative proposal from the Central Party, SV, Left and Christian People's Party, we can read that the expansion of the Ørland Air Station would initially cost 6 billion. But now it's going to cost over 15 billion. kr. There is a justification in the argument to doubt the economic calculations for the defence. The truth is that through the Inst. 388 S for 2011–2012 to Prop. 73 S for 2011–2012 the cost of setting up the fighter aircraft base on Ørland and the forward operating base on Evenes was estimated to be 9 billion. kr in 2011-krona. Of these, 5.1 billion was. kr related to investments in new capacities and SEK 3,9 billion. kr related to the renewal/upgradation of existing buildings and installations for the period up to 2052. Converted to 2017 krones are the costs of Ørland Air Station and the forward operating base of Evenes 10.4 billion. kr, broken down by 4,5 billion respectively. kr for renewal and SEK 5.9 billion. kr for new investments. In this debate there has been a lot of wavering with numbers, there have been many numbers raised, and there have been many bastant statements about numbers. It can sometimes be a good idea to deal with the decisions that have been made, and maybe check how close we are, because we are today actually pretty close to the calculations that were made when the red-green delivered the proposition to choose Evenes and Ørland as the main aircraft bases. It also tells us that there is competence in the Ministry of Defence and the Defence to implement these types of projects. The decision to shut down Andøya Air Station and establish Evenes Air Station as the base for forward fighter and maritime patrol aircraft was a demanding decision. The government has said that from day one. The closure of Andøya Air Station was the measure in the previous long-term plan that gave the greatest negative impact on a local community concerned. I have a great deal of understanding that this is difficult for everyone involved. We believe, however, that operationally and economically is the right decision. You can't see every single measure in isolation. The Government’s recommendation is based on an overall assessment. There has been a necessary priority based on extensive and thorough investigations. The government prioritises increased activity in the north, and with Evenes the defense gets a base in North Norway that can protect and support the defense's ability to operate air operations in peace, crisis and armed conflict. The decision of the Stortinge on a collection at Evenes provides the best operational capability at the lowest cost. The draft selection inquiry and the external quality assurance confirm important assumptions underlying the government’s recommendation and the Storting decision to establish the new P8 maritime patrol aircraft on Evenes. I am sure that the development of Evenes will have positive repercussions on the region and that the decision strengthens Norway's defence capabilities. Now I'm asking that we focus on expanding Evenes, so that we get ready for surgery in time. I have to make a few comments on the use of language in the Chamber: the Labour Party has sent 40 questions on the occasion of the case, asking: how is it, how is it, etc. Talking about such a thorough political work as having jumped on the propaganda from the government, I think you should stick too well in this matter. It's been a complicated and heavy job that many people have been involved in, and we're going to appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1499	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1504	Can the Council of State say anything about what has been said in several speeches about the migration of skills from Andeya? This is a central element when we move the fighter planes from Bodø to Ørland. We know that we are struggling with the same skills struggle now. I want the Council of State to say something to the Stortinget about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1509	Yeah, let's do that. When we switch systems, we wear out skills, and we get a dip. When we do radical transformations like this, of course, we wear more. This is a shift, and the instruments are the employer’s tools. But the head of defense has been up there this week. They're taking it seriously. The costs of moving, charging and conversion costs are included in the calculations we have made, so that the cost is taken into account. But in cooperation with the employee organisations, we need to find the good tools. We're doing that job now, and I think we should do that. At the same time, we are working a lot on the conversion projects for the Andeya community, just to create predictability for people living in Andeya, so that you can stand in a job, while at the same time being able to get a different job if you want to be on Andeya after we've laid the base. It is also an important project, I believe, both for the defence and for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1516	During the debate that took place here in the Chamber before the Council of State made its statement, it was claimed that the Council of State has said that air protection is not important. Can the Councils comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1521	That's a very good question, because it's been said a lot in this debate. I have previously stated that when the head of defence did his priorities in his professional counsel, air protection was not included in the calculations at all. He did the calculations without it, simply because he was going to look at drones and other types of planes. We have said that air protection is important. It's not right, what's being said here, is that the P8 planes are to be taken out of operation immediately if there's an escalation of a crisis. It's an operational assessment, and the professional soldiers are quite clear that a protected base allows us to use those planes further in the crisis, when the intensity is higher. It'll help us get the overview we need in a high-intensity situation. So, of course, there's a discussion about the terms: what is 'high intensity'? What is ‘low intensity’? It is an operational assessment carried out by the professional militants of the Operational Headquarters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1530	In the questionnaire last Wednesday, we witnessed a slightly special opinion as the Council of State could not explain what was in the need for upgrading, as Mr Avinor has pointed out to the Ministry of Defence. The councils said: ‘The long-term work or concept selection investigation has identified the need for upgrading the Evenes track system. Experts from Avinor, Defence Equipment, Defence and Defence Building have all contributed to these assessments.’ The undersigned repeatedly asked the Minister of Defence, on the basis of what Avinor wrote in a letter as late as last year to the Ministry of Defence, where it said: ‘The lifetime costs should also include rail system and infrastructure used by QRA and MPA. Substantial upgrade of the special parallel taxiway will be required in the next 10 years.» If the parallel taxiway is not part of the track system, the undersigned begins to cheat. I therefore repeat the question and give the Council of State once again – I believe it is the fifth time – the opportunity to answer this question: Is there a need to upgrade the rail system in the next 30 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1545	I answered that question on Wednesday. I said that I did not have detailed knowledge of all the correspondence between Avinor and the defense, but I assumed that this was included in the draft selection investigation and the external quality assurance, and that the costs were included in the calculations. But there are other important factors in this. One is Project Evens. The second is the process that's going on between Avinor and the Defense now. It is a cooperation agreement to be further developed. There is a cooperation agreement on how to deliver services and costs are allocated, including: on Evenes, for both Avinor and the Defense are present. And part of the correspondence to which the representative Nordlund refers is part of a correspondence that builds up to agree on that agreement. Not later than three weeks ago, there was a new correspondence between Avinor and the Defence Department on this issue, where it was negotiated on what should apply in a cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1552	As I mentioned in my post, the site will never work. Now today the United States will take over a large part of the running maritime surveillance of the Barents Sea, based in Norway. I'd like to ask the Council of State whether the Norwegian defense is able today to carry out fully the surveillance required in the Barents Sea and the North, and whether it is right that the U.S. Marines will come with their P-8A aircraft to operate surveillance in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1563	We're monitoring the capacity we have in the Barents Sea. It is not uncommon that our allies are in Norway and practice. Very familiar is what's going to happen, one of the usual exercises, where there were capacities last year, and where there were capacities in place years before that. I haven't read the article on nolms.no, so I can't point out exactly what it is, but it's not uncommon that allies are here with surveillance planes and practice in our areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1570	This with air protection was not clearer for me by the Council's reply to the representative Huitfeldt, so let me just bring up again what is in KS1, and I quote: ‘We understand that it is not planned to operate MPA from Evens during high intensity operations.’ Is that what's in KS1, wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1581	In any case, the head of defense is much clearer in the quotation that Huitfeldt had, for to what extent and when you have to take the planes away from Evenes, will be an operational assessment. The presence of air protection means that you can be able to have the planes operating further north and give us a better picture of the situation, which will increase the defence capacity of Norway. The Chief of Defence is quite clear in his opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1586	We can see that the government’s argument attached to air protection protection is quite different today from that he was when this matter was dealt with for the first time in this room. Here, a shift has occurred in the argument. My question relates to the fact that the government has begun to eliminate the future base structure and the receipt of allied forces. That's the way one should have put down a station before one knows the ultimate need, also associated with receiving allied forces. My question to the Council of State is, can it be a mistake to have a station shut down before we know the final structure, when the government is in the middle of an arrangement of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1593	Now, the investigation we're conducting in the case of allies, and in the case of bases and structures in the context of allies reception, is a rolling of the plank located in NATO. There is a necessary rolling where NATO also adapts its plans to the existing bases and structures. So I don't see that we suddenly stand there and say that it was stupid that we put it down. I think we're going to be able to build a structure where we're going to have bases and capacities to accept allies. So it's like that, and I've also said that before, in a crisis situation, all Norwegian airports can have to prepare to be a base for allied activity, just because we don't know what kind of crisis it will be. But a concept is being built now that you can get to a base where you bring what you need, and then you have to be able to operate from there -- it's Banak, it's going to be the High Bay Moon, it's going to be Back, it's going to be other airports. What we're doing with the investigation is to adapt, so we're sure that our plans are in line with NATO's plans in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1602	The Norwegian Federation of Officers has stated that by choosing Evenes as its sole base in the north, Norway’s ability to accept alliert full-year flight support is raging in North Norway. Today we read in local media that the United States is now planning to send up to five P-8 Poseidon surveillance planes to Andeya Air Station. These should, as we understand it, operate maritime surveillance in the northern regions. So my question to the Minister of Defence is, can the Minister of Defense, on a general basis, answer whether there will be capacity at Evenes in the future to receive a similar deployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1609	Yes, there will be capacity on Evenes to receive more surveillance planes, a similar deployment to what we are reading about on Nevermer.no. Nor is it unusual, as I said in previous posts, that allies practice with us with surveillance planes. There have been many, many times. So there won't be any impossibility. With regard to the reference to the Norwegian Officers' Association, I must be allowed to file that it has a background from the calculations I had to point to in my post. I always use double check when I see statements from the Norwegian Bureau of Officers' Association, especially in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1616	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1621	The issue we are dealing with today is a major change and it is also difficult for local communities. It is both natural and necessary that these types of cases are covered by discussion both over time and in depth. Everyone in our country is served with progress in and clarification of precisely this kind of important issues, decisions that guarantee our defence, our preparedness, and that our defence has the strength to fight – without being overly emboldened by games, divisions and thus uncertainty. It was worrying last year, during the 2017 election campaign, that the Workers' Party signaled that they wanted to reopen the discussion on Andøya and Evenes. There were very many of us who then asked the question: Where does the responsible Labour Party become? At times, however, the Workers' Party may appear to be more concerned with obtaining a majority than with what they are given a majority. This spring we have experienced that the Workers' Party has increasingly followed after parties on the far left side. The reason you can always speculate about, but the way I see it, there is also a need to seal a leak to both the Socialist Left and Red, who can experience being involved in this. The centre party has been the initiator of one of the representatives’ proposals. The answers to the questions they have asked have been received before. The fact that the centre party does not like the answers is not the same as the answers are wrong. The draft selection inquiry and the external quality assurance report confirm key assumptions underlying the government’s recommendations, and thus the Storting decision to establish the new P-8 maritime patrol aircraft on Evenes. Therefore, our assessment is that there is no need for further review or postponement of this decision. Now it's important to start building up on Evenes, so that the base is ready when the new maritime patrol planes arrive in Norway, and when QRA is going to start up on Evenes. It's important for defense in general that we get a protected base in the north. The decision of the Stortinge on a collection at Evenes provides the best operational capability at the lowest cost. That means that we can use a greater share of the resources for operational activities and support of precisely this, so that we get the most defence capability out of each defense crown. Mainly, the uncertainty about the cost of the base solution in the north was also the basis for the representative proposals. The external quality assurance, i.e. the KVU at Evenes, reveals that there is no uncertainty. The draft selection investigation also imposes other uncertainties associated with Evens, such as capacity for allied reception and closure of civil and military traffic during the same period. The main conclusion of the external quality assurance demonstrates in terms of both the cost picture and other effects that it is recommending the same concept as KVU-Evenes and it is critical to make good progress in establishing precisely Evenes as a forward-looking base in the north. Once the Committee has examined this matter, it has been important for an overall committee that we have been given a decision that the government should update the Stortinge in the context of the revised national budget for 2017, if significant changes were to be made to the decision-making basis for the closure of Andeya airstation. I have to say that with the review we have received, the uncertainty has been put aside. Progress can continue, and we ensure that we have a defence with the combat force we require to have, to ensure that Norway has a preparedness and security that is necessary and necessary for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1634	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1639	This is a day that many have described as sad, but the last words are probably not said in this matter in this debate here, and it will probably not be so that the Storting is finished with this discussion. It is likely to come up in any case when you have to gradually cover overruns or make changes to the basis you have chosen to put down Andeya and build up a lower capacity, without saving money, on Evenes. As the Council of State itself had an answer to me, Norwegian security policy must therefore deal with new environments – we must continue to do so – that update the need to facilitate the reinforcement of allied forces. One might say that it's also about facilitating and expanding our defenses to place us in the world as it looks, and when we see how things evolve out there. It is true that there has been an increase in activity in allied activities in Norway, among others. in practice. It's getting exciting to see what kind of exercise it is these P-8s, which it seems now can look like to be stationed on Andøya this summer, are going to be doing, at least all the time that ordinary staff initially have to go on vacation. The Chief of Defense's professional-military council, which many of the representatives have been in, built in time on a premise to change the platform for maritime patrol aircraft, i.e. to go down in size. When Stortinget adopted this in 2016, not many weeks went by – so there must have been someone sitting and working in parallel with it – before the government put forward a proposal to increase the platform on which to operate maritime patrol surveillance, at a cost of quite a billion. It's actually a change in the assumptions that it seems like government and parts of the opposition, including the Workers' Party, have problems taking over, namely, the fact that the starting point of the Trade Union Council has changed. There are many things that are raised in this case, and there are many questions you could have asked, because every time you ask a question, the government is unable to answer reassuringly. It's not about, as the representative Schou had in mind, that the Central Party doesn't necessarily like the answers you get, it's about getting more questions when you get poor answers from the government. It's interesting to note the discussion that goes into the hall here today about air protection. Since the government and the Workers' Party believe that MPA must be protected on the ground with air protection, the consequence will necessarily be that they must also have protection when outside the coverage of the air protection system, i.e. when they are intended to be normally taken. Some other conclusion is difficult to draw if it is not to result in correctness, as the quality assurance states, that the aeroplanes are to be withdrawn from the area and further south of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1652	This is a sad day for many regardless of the party. We've seen a race where one has overestimated the cost of operating on the Andes, while one has devalued the cost of rebuilding on the Evenes. Since Evenes is surrounded by beautiful mountains, experts give a clear operational advantage to Andøya with three-sided seas. This is something all the expertise says, the experts warn against Evenes because an expansion that will result in space shortages, and there are weather problems. Who are these experts? Yeah, they're flyers and meteorologists. Andøya is a fully operational airbase with all the infrastructure in place and plenty of areas for any expansion. Over 60 years they have built a unique professional environment and have done their social work in an excellent way. Not only is there a transverse windway but also a parallel taxiway that can replace the main runway if it is to be put out of play, and not least is this jewel of an aerodrome that a carrier in the sea is closest to the areas under which the aeroplanes are to be monitored. 50 years ago, I attended and measured all the houses in a place called Haugnes, which was right next to the Andes. Bygda Haugnes was in the way of what was going to be North Norway's best airport, and people had to move. I worked as a tiled boy in the FBT, the Defense Building Service, at the air station. Along with engineer Rydland, I was involved in measuring the houses, and this provided the basis for the small replacement that people received. Think of all the feelings that were going on, but people accepted it, because this was supposed to give Norway security, and it was going to give permanent jobs in the municipality. And it was going to be Norway's best airport. This was in the time of the Cold War. 300 people in Haugnes who didn't have a loan had to borrow and start over. The compensation was not covered far near the cost of a new home. 1952 was the year of the NATO decision in Paris that the airport at the Andes was to be built. 30 000 million. It has cost me to build this airport. Russian activity is increasing in the north. Norway is no longer able to deliver enough goods. And the United States is on its way in to monitor our areas. President – this is not good!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1671	We are now in a situation where Stortinget is shutting down Andøya Air Station without knowing where or how Norway is going to accept allied fighter aircraft in North Norway. The decision-making basis for shutting down Andøya Air Station has changed significantly, and it is clear that that closure will not strengthen Norway’s defence capability, but will also significantly weaken its preparedness. The savings by bringing together the activities of Evenes and shutting down Andeya Aviation Station are likely to be significantly less than the government estimates. There is also a risk of large overruns, according to among others. the report of the Societal Economic Analysis commissioned by the Centre Party. There is a basis for significant doubt about the cost calculations in KVU and KS1. These include both operating costs, costs related to shutting down Andeya Air Station and removal costs, which have not been included in the overall cost assessments. There has been no clear picture of what will actually be the total cost of a one-stop solution at Evenes. The government should therefore have provided as soon as possible an overview of the total costs of setting up a base solution on Evenes instead of laying down Andøya, which is unfortunately happening. A one-base solution to Evenes will not cover the functions currently covered by Andeya. The solution in the long-term plan is a collection of Evenes with other aerodromes as emergency bases. The establishment and operation of these new emergency bases will incur large operating and investment costs that are not included in the cost estimate of the KVU. The situation on Andøya enters a picture where North Norway is repeatedly ignored by the government. Air ambulance service not working. The security helicopters for the police are being removed. The Coast Guard doesn't have helicopters. Helicopters of the army are being removed. A whole battalion is actually put down. A thousand soldiers are disappearing. And then on top of all of this, Andeya's air station is going to be shut down. Nor does the government show any willingness to fulfil Norway’s obligations towards NATO. No later than today, representatives of the government parties Right and the Progress Party have shown that the government parties have not even agreed on what Norway’s commitments to NATO actually mean. I want to end with what I started with. It's almost impossible to believe that the Stortinget is now shutting down Andeya Air Station without knowing where or how to accept allied reinforcements if our country is at war, and that such a decision is being made that will significantly weaken preparedness in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1689	Something has happened with the participation of the Right-wing Representatives in discussions on defence and foreign policy in this Chamber after the elections. Not only in the discussion here today, but also in other contexts, we see that those from the pulpit are misrepresenting the views of other parties and concentrating on characterizing others rather than arguing for themselves. Then I aim specifically at the representative Injerd Schou's posts. What is the basis for our proposal in the matter today is not a re-examination of the entire decision-making basis for Andøya or Evenes. That is not what the proposal says. What it says is that we want a review of the data base and all of the information related to Even's development. There is a rather different situation in what is proposed by the Central Party and what is proposed by the Labour Party. So the criticism from Ingerd Schau against the Workers' Party is quite strong. But she fails to criticize her own government partner the Progress Party. They said, during the election campaign, that the government had to present a new independent investigation into the future of Andyya Airstation, so that Stortinget could reconsider the matter – that is, back to start, to start all over again. That's what the Progress Party said during the election campaign. I think it's quite unfair on the Right to make our views false, and that makes it very much concerned about just defence issues in this Chamber. For one thing, making compromises and agreements on a broad basis, but when one subsequently criticises one's partners in the way that the government has done, yes, there is more dissension about defence policy and foreign policy. In this case, we have turned each stone and found that it is the basis for the decision we made two years ago. But there will probably be more disagreement about defence policy, given the arrogant behaviour of the Right Party – and the creation of a broad majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1700	Unfortunately, it seems today that the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right will contribute to a majority which will have a major impact on Norwegian security and preparedness. It will be a historical misstep, taken on a frighteningly poor decision-making basis. The government presented its long-term defence plan on 17 June 2016. Presenting a message the day before the Stortinget took a vacation was made by a government that wanted the least debate on the decision they had made. You can see that, given the enormous commitment this case has created. In the long-term plan, the Right Party and the Advance Party spend enormous sums on building down capacity one place, then building up the equivalent another place – and without increasing defence capabilities. The closure of Andøya Air Station and the main helicopter base on Bardufoss are just such a waste of money, where the government destroys both military capabilities and communities that have adapted to the needs of Defence over many years. The construction of Andøya and the construction of Evenes reminds us of the absurd process of investing 1 billion. kr in new main base for helicopter on Bardufoss, then to put it down the following year. This is not to prioritize the defense in the north. There is not a single soldier or professional militant in Norway who honestly believes it strengthens Norway's defence ability to drastically reduce our ability to accept allied reinforcements. That's exactly what's going to be the result of shutting down Andeya Air Station. The establishment and operation of new emergency bases will entail substantial investment and operational costs. These are not included in the concept selection investigation. Now, according to the quality report, costs have cracked by nearly one billion dollars. There is no doubt that the decision to shut down Andøya Air Station is economically motivated, but then it is tragic to witness that the economic savings the government has been persistently claiming they are safe, neither coming nor being documented. The government parties and the Workers' Party are making a decision today that can quickly prove to be a loss of defence for billions of dollars and tear apart a top-functioning trade union environment. I wonder how the government can shut down Andøya Air Station without having a plan to replace the reception capacity at the air station. It is similar to a strategy that only half the country must be defended. That's never going to be accepted by the Center Party. In conclusion, I would just like to say that if, once again today, with the new information that has come, we should put down Andøya, this is a sad day for Norwegian defence and for North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1717	On my question about the U.S. Marines’ presence at Andøya airbase gave me vague and vague answers from the Council of State. He said so. that U.S. Marines were supposed to come here just for practice, and that it's common. I have not heard before that the U.S. Marines have been present at Andøya Air Station for several months with five P-8 aircraft. One has been present – yes, one has a middle country – yes, one has been given many permits – yes, but never before on such a scale. May the Council of State confirm that the U.S. Marines shall only practise and not take over the duties of Norwegian Defence during this period? Nor did it seem that the Secretary of Defense was informed that the U.S. The Marines are coming. He was at least very vague. If that is the case, it is not trusting. Can the Council of State confirm that he has knowledge of both the time they arrive, the number of arrivals, and what tasks they will perform? The people of Andeya have given a lot from themselves to the Defense, and as has been said before, when the airbase was established, many had to move from the garden to the ground, as many in the Far East need to do today, in order to give way to important societal tasks. They had ignited a better process and a better management from the government and the majority of the population than they now get. Several people also owe the minority to bets and speculations in the debate. Does anyone think we're not taking this matter seriously? Is there anyone who thinks we're working so hard on a case because we want to run games and spitball? I thought it was directly arrogant to say this to political opponents. We don't have any fun with any games or specks. We've had an intense desire to support the defense. There are a lot of people in Defense, not least in the aviation community, who are keen to maintain the base on Andy Island. We want to support the struggle of the people of Andeya and many more than them. We have a case where the air-defence drug has fallen to the ground. The picture of the cost is not explained. We don't know where to accept allied flights. The team is moving and flying away from the base, and we're probably going to have other countries to do the work for us. I want to end up as I started: the decision of the majority is about to implement putting down the airstation on Andy Island and moving it to Evenes, is one of the worst-founded decisions in recent times. I am unfortunately afraid that this matter will come up again in this room many times, and it will not be flattering for the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1730	So let's just sum this up. The Air Protection Argument is exposed as a substantive argument, despite the Minister of Defense's attempts at a small rescue operation in the line change. The economic argument is still an important argument that the Storting should not take the decision of the Stortinget today by rejecting our proposals. There is a great deal that is unclear about moving costs, related to what will be the need for emergency bases for the new solution, and not least with regard to the much-mentioned personnel flight. In addition, I can show that questions of response time related to how to organise the one-base solution have been raised by trustees. Towards the end of this debate, I would like to add that what has emerged in Nevermer.no today about increased American surveillance activity is serious and important to discuss for Stortinget. If that is the policy that the government has pursued towards Andeya, has implications for the air defence's ability to carry out surveillance to the extent it should, and the vacuum is filled with US aircraft and US surveillance, then it's an unwise safety policy. The most important thing to reduce tension in the north is that Norway itself enforces its sovereignty and meets as much as possible the military needs of the northern seas. If the Americans take over duties, it's going to increase the tension in the north. Just as the stationing of American soldiers on the Guards is an unwise security policy, creating a room for Americans to take on more maritime surveillance, unwise security policies that do not serve Norway. I would strongly warn against such a development. Otherwise, I would just like to say that the total silence of the Progress Party in this debate is noted, with the exception of the President, of course. It's noted by me, and I'm pretty sure it's being noted by people in Northern Ireland as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1741	As elected representatives, we have a fundamental responsibility for people's security. The fight for Andøya Air Station is a struggle for Norwegian defence, for our national preparedness, for our common security and in the utmost consequence for the future of Norway. The decision to move the maritime surveillance aeroplanes is incorrect, but the ability to change a wrong decision is not present in the national Parliament today. Air protection, which was the most important argument when Stortinget took its decision in 2016, is now gone as an argument. The need for air defence for bases in the north is unclear. Where in the north are reinforcements to be accepted if necessary? Norway needs more than Evenes and Bardufoss and has a real need to maintain the Andeya Air Station. History will judge the bulk of the population when it turns out in retrospect that the transfer of maritime surveillance at Andøya airport is a scandal. The Working Party, Right, Advance Party and Left may take that load. The Workers' Party's proposal to convert Andøya Air Station into an allied reception reinforcement base is a diversion in line with a new attack on the community. The working party thinks that the base should be tapped for everything, but the area should lie there without any activity, without being able to be used for anything sensible for the small community out to the sea, the furthest north of Northernland. The people of Andøya, who have played with the great community, shall not even be freed from the planned decommissioned military area for civil activity, according to the Workers' Party. The government parties and the Workers' Party are weakening Norwegian defence capabilities today, but the government is talking about power collection. Double communication is a well-known blue government strategy. When the government does bad things for most people, they always try to create confusion by using words that decorate the bride. Finally, I have to ask what the government will do with extraordinary actions for the Andeya community. I expected a clear message in the revised budget that there would be extraordinary funds to implement the expansion of the Andean port, but no, the responsibility for fishing ports that the Andean port is pushed out of the NTP. It's a bad day for the Defense, and it's a bad day for the Andeans and the Andeans.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1756	Andøya and the Andenes community have served Norway well by hosting important military functions over many decades. Many in the local population have set up. They've got a job, and they've contributed to Norwegian defense. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those who for one and a half years have worked unfailingly and in a factual and good way to make representations in order to take care of their interests and to obtain arguments and to ask questions about the matter we have been dealing with in Stortinget, first through the defence agreement and later through the representative proposals that are under consideration today. Organisations such as Bevar Andøya Flystation, other local community activists and all others throughout the country involved have provided useful input, which has been important to clarify different aspects of the case. I regret that in the context of the negotiations on the long-term defence plan, the government was not going to go into the question of Andøya. It was one thing that was important for us in the Workers' Party to lift up, but it was not possible to reach an agreement on that question, and it has engaged many. It is a decision that obviously has defence implications, but my concern here today is also to explain that it has consequences for those who live in that society. As for the size of the air station, the number of jobs there, it's very large in relation to how many actually live on site. I also want to address what the media wrote about in the fall, and which was partly the background to the Workers' Party's decision to ask for a new review of the numbers, because there were so many claims made, so many questions were asked that were not answered properly enough, it was so much uncertainty that people began to ask questions about the legitimacy and the basis of the matter. That's why it was absolutely necessary to get a new review, to get those facts clarified. Unfortunately, as we asked in the draft representative, it was not possible to straighten out the process in such a way as to restore confidence. In this respect, the process has been carefully played in many ways, because it is also important to have confidence in the decisions of the big community that have a very big impact on small communities. Now the Andes have been setting up for many years. Now the big community must also come back and stand up. We need to set up conversion tools – sufficient – we need to get started as soon as possible. The working party has proposed for the current year the start-up of a new fishing port, which is necessary for an important industry there. In particular, the future of the Andes lies in drones, satellites and space activities. I hope we can stand up for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1769	It has been interesting to sit and listen to the debate. There is no doubt from the Center Party that this is a sad day. That's it. It is not meant either strategically or in any other way, but in fact I think there are many in my party group who think it is bitter that it should not be possible to come any further, given some of the unclear conditions that still exist in the Andeya. For this has been a matter where it has been difficult to get the majority parties to listen. It has been difficult to get them involved in the debate. They've moved away. We also see that here today, in and of itself, from the Right, but perhaps especially from the Progress Party. It has also been extremely difficult to get answers to questions. At the latest, the representative Navarsete came up with a few questions to the Council of State, but it does not appear that he intends to give her any answers to those questions. In summary, this is a matter where there have been varying reasons. They have almost changed from week to week. And like the representative Lighthouse, I think it could have been good to promote some of them. One is the maritime economic argument, because there are still considerable uncertainties as regards both excessive savings and excessive costs of shared solutions. The second is the maritime air protection argument, which was almost the only argument that remained when the defence agreement was concluded. Today, a clear believe that what is in the KS1 about air protection can be rejected without further delay, and the Council of State is suddenly not so very concerned about what he said to the NRK that he rejects the fact that air protection was a decisive argument for protecting Evenes. But it was. It reminds all of us who were involved in the defence agreement that it was – it was almost the only reason that was left at the tame of the negotiations on the defence agreement. We also have the question of the mobility of competences, where the Council of State says that well, we're going to try to make some good transitional arrangements. But maybe one should also think a little bit about why that pool of skills comes. It comes because it's a mind, but also, I think, an arrogance all over the process associated with the closure of Andeya. Then comes the fourth moment, which has also been addressed by several speakers today, namely the question of American presence. Is it the case that someone is actually going to fill an empty space with American planes and personnel, who is going to take over tasks that should have been done by the Norwegian defense? It is also an interesting and important debate relating to safety and tension in the north. For the Central Party, it is to say that we think that what is happening today in Stortinget is sad, not only for those who live on Andøya, but also for the Norwegian defence policy and for the Norwegian bigges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1784	A lot has been said in the debate today, and a lot will be allowed to lie. But there are a couple of statements here that I have to comment on. Firstly, it is the opposition's criticism of the Chief of Defense's professional military advice that air protection must be provided where the maritime surveillance planes are to be located. Putting such advice aside and describing it as amateurry is quite serious. Then the opposition also tells us that they have some limited confidence in the head of defense. That in itself is serious. The situation is that we can be hit by long-range precision missiles, which can deploy both surveillance planes and other capabilities in a very short time. The air protection system will be strengthened throughout NATO. Also Norwegian airports had air protection during the cold war. It was said that the investigations that have been carried out have not produced the correct answer. Do you believe that trust in government agencies and the investigations of government agencies in the other fields dealt with by the Stortinget is at the same level of confidence as that carried out in this matter? Then Stortinget has a problem. It is the same office and the same authority apparatus to work for the current opposition, if it were to occupy the government offices at some point in time, on presumptuously. So the representative said Lightbaking something that in itself was quite interesting and reasonable. He said that it was important to have a national presence in our own areas in order to avoid the need to carry out important national defence tasks by others. That is quite correct, and that is what underlies the long-term plan. Norway is NATO in the north. We take care of NATO's role in the northern regions on behalf of the Alliance and in order to safeguard our own national security interests in the northern regions. To the representative Lysbakken: That's why we buy 52 new fighter aircraft, five new surveillance aircraft – the world's most advanced surveillance aircraft – four new submarines and three new coastguard ships, to mention something.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1797	I don't know if you get an answer to many of the questions that have been asked – at least it doesn't seem like you're going to get this today, and it doesn't seem like you've got it before. And there has been so much confusion in some of the answers that have come from the department, that the undersigned have found it necessary to ask for transparency in some documents, but it has been rejected. It's a little interesting to see that the department is so busy that you refer to a law where the Stortinge is denied transparency. If, for security policy reasons, this public debate should not be held, at least the undersigned shall be involved. However, such a meeting can be given a suitable place — and not necessarily refuse the Stortingen transparency on an important basis for the decision that the majority parties are now choosing to take. In particular, you choose to trump it, because when you read the quality assurance of the KVU, you read the following: ‘In the course of the KVU work, an uncertainty analysis has been carried out both for cost and time. These need to be updated during the pre-project phase as a basis for setting performance targets for the implementation of the project. We support the KVU's cost ranking over time and performance. We point out that a tight schedule of parallel activities, combined with a prioritisation of costs over time, involves an increased risk that MPA facilities are not completed before the aircraft arrive. Uncertainty related to whether the development timetable needs to be further analysed during the project phase.’» I know those who have followed this matter carefully over a long time: there is great uncertainty and big questions here. It also turns out that the cost you will end up with has not been well enough insured. Nor should it be borne in mind that the cost analyses referred to by several government parties today, at the latest by the case-rapporteur, have been carried out with 50 pst. the safety of hitting. Historically, it is rare to meet what is referred to as P50. It will be interesting to see what possible worse solutions are being given, or what additional appropriations the government will need. In this context, it is exciting to see that the Minister of Defence does not have an in-depth insight into the letters that have passed between Avinor and Defence Building, to which reference was made during a line change, while at the same time, during the same line change, last Wednesday, he could show that there were some upgrade needs both in terms of runway lighting – which, as far as I am aware, have already been implemented – and in relation to de-icing fluid, which was well the word that was used. Then again the question will be, how can this room be sure that the correct information has been provided? And how are we going to be able to make a decision today that is beyond time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1815	I'm just going to add some closing comments to the debate. Firstly, I would like to thank you for a good and thorough debate. I believe this is a question that requires careful treatment. I also believe that it has been a thorough process. When we said that we're doing a concept selection investigation, when we said that we're sending it to external quality assurance, it's because we want to be sure. We were also quite clear that if there were major deviations in those documents, we were going to put our foot down. It hasn't been. So the chosen concept is going through with the control mechanisms that we have and usually use. So it was a little bit about not getting an answer. Well, it's probably a little bit like that you don't want answers, at least you don't want to hear or accept the answers. To the representative of Navarsete: I said that I could not comment on an article on nominees.no that I had not read. Then I was a little insecure, but it's not unusual that we practice surveillance planes in Norway. To the representative Lysbakken: Yes, we can inform more about operational capability, but it's a question and an answer that belongs to a different forum than exactly the Parliament's pulpit, because it's graduated, and we have other forums to deal with that kind of question. We are increasing operational capacity with the plan we have put forward and the land-use proposition. It's not like we're ruining North Norway. On the contrary, we're moving the defense back to Finnmark. We sail more in the north, we fly more in the north, and we move the Army back to Finnmark, just because the situation is like that. Then we make changes that are painful, but necessary. We've spent a lot of resources making sure we're on the right track. There are, of course, challenges of skills mobility; there are challenges of change; there are challenges for the Andeya community – what are they going to do now? The most important thing we can do, I think is to have neat processes and then point forward. We're going to be in front of the Andeya community. We're in the process, they're in transition, they're in the process of conversion, they're in the process of doing a lot of good projects up there, and we're going to support the projects they're doing, even in the future. But it's also important to create so much credibility around political processes and decisions that we don't send people out in a sense that you just float without control. There has been a thorough political process in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1826	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1832	I registered that I did not receive an answer to any of the questions to the Minister of Defence. So it's not unusual for one to practice, but that's not what I asked for. Is it practice, and only practice, that is to happen this summer, or take over any of the Norwegian defense's duties? That was the one question. The second question I believe he too must have understood, but it was not commented on. The representative of the Rivers says that we have easily seen professional military advice from the head of defence, but a lot has happened since the FMR. The KS1 came, and I referred to it in my main post. On 18 April, the Minister of Defense rejected the fact that Evenes was elected for air protection, and the government, while handling NTP, said that surveillance aircraft and fighter aircraft should not be at the same time on Evenes in a war situation. There's a lot of stuff going on, and everything is tearing my legs during the argumentation of the plural. Therefore, they are left ribbed to the skin and without trust in this important matter, and it is only sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1839	Willfred Nordlund has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1844	I had to take the floor again, because I still note that the Council of State does not choose to answer questions, and at least it is – if not otherwise – not very reliable that you cannot answer some specific questions, also questions that have been asked over a long time and in different variants, in an attempt to actually find out what is really there as a background. I'm sorry. And when you show that you've been in a thorough process, yes, it may be that the process has been thorough, but the question is whether you've been thorough in looking for what it is that is possibly there of surprises, when you actually decide what the majority chooses to do. And when you claim that you've moved the defense back to the north and flying more, it's time to ask if it's going to be with the American P-8, or if it's going to be with the fewer Bell helicopters, as this government also suggests. This will be interesting to follow in the future – if, in fact, the defence is actually strengthened and gets more fighting power in the future with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1853	Next speaker is State Council Frank Bakke-Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1858	I'm renouncing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1863	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1879	I am the case rapporteur for both Prop. 60 L, Prop. 75 L and Prop. 79 S, so the post I keep now, is going to be my comment on all of those matters. There is an overall committee that supports the setting up of these cases. Prop. 60 L concerns amendments to the Alcohol Act, the Nuclear Energy Act, the Public Health Act, the Medicines Act, the Medical Device Act, the Radiation Protection Act and the Tobacco Damage Act. The amendments to the various laws are quite similar, namely to introduce an infringement fee as an administrative sanction. In the alcohol law, we also open up testing at industry-wide events, so that it can be done in the morning. In addition, a Joint Committee has noted that in the field of medicinal products there is a system of self-justice which goes beyond what is laid down by public law. So we ask the government to take that into account when you're working on the regulations of the law. Prop. 75 L concerns an amendment to the Tobacco Injury Act in order to obtain an authorisation scheme for the production, import and export of tobacco products. This is a change we are making in line with Article 6 of the Tobacco Directive. We are also introducing a traceability system for tobacco products. We are obliged to make this change through the agreements we have made internationally, and then we have the choice either to ban tobacco production as a whole or to introduce an authorisation system. That's when a joint committee says it's the best thing. Now it's not like we're waiting for a stream of such funding requests, but we're opening it up – if it should show up. So a unanimous committee is behind all the changes in this bill. Then it's Prop. 79 S: Where requested, consent to the ratification of the Protocol against the illicit trade in tobacco products. That protocol has three main parts. The first is the prevention of illicit trade and the control of the supply chain. The second is enforcement and penalties, and the third is international cooperation of a technical-administrative and legal nature. Here a joint committee agrees that it is important to stand together both in the fight against tobacco and not least against the illegal part of tobacco. There is a major problem both in Norway and in the rest of the world with both smuggling and counterfeit producers, and a large proportion of tobacco consumed and used in Norway is produced illegally or admitted to the country. This Convention will help to facilitate the work on this criminal behaviour. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1894	Since the representative took a step forward on the case list, the President considers it appropriate to refer to the case no. 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1921	Several have not asked for the floor, and the debate in Case No. 9, 10 and 11 are over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1938	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1947	I would first like to thank the proposers for the commitment attached to the reality of the matter. The recommendation of the Committee is made by the members of the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The majority suggest that governments review and propose the regulation of the supply and use of cosmetic injections. Age limits and requirements for handlers and locations must be part of this. Furthermore, sanctions should be interpreted. The prohibition on the placing on the market of cosmetic injections and on ordering and using in private homes should be part of the decision-making basis provided to the Stortinget. The examination of the proposal by the Health and Welfare Committee shows that developments in society, and especially among children and young people, provide good grounds for looking at the regulation of the supply and use of cosmetic injections. The report ‘Project Perfect’, which has examined the experience of body pressure among 2,000 young people, shows that 68 pst. of the girls and 52 pst. says they want to change their appearance. This alone shows that the supply and marketing give increasing confidence in and, in the next round, the use of cosmetic injections. Fillers that are injected into the skin for cosmetic reasons and are not registered as a medicinal product are regulated by the Cosmetic Law. Cosmetic injections that do not have a medical indication may fall outside the scope of ‘health care’ and thus outside the field of defence requirements for health care. There is no age limit for cosmetic injections and because such injections are not considered to be health care when used for cosmetic reasons, nor does they apply to health authorities aged 16 years. Today’s legislation also does not prevent individuals from buying such products on the Internet for their own use. The majority of referrals from the Committee believe that treatment should be required, that Botox should not be injected by other than healthcare professionals, that the law and sanctions should be stricter when it comes to treatment, that a ban on the marketing of cosmetic injections should be assessed, and that the age limit for cosmetic injections should be the same as for cosmetic interventions. The threshold for changing appearance should be raised and can be done by increasing the age to 18 years. The majority also believe it is natural that medical injections for personal use are banned, as the treatment and treatment site requirements will not be met. The plural suggests that Stortinget's treatment of Innst. 344 S. on body pressure and advertising tomorrow, June 6, must be seen in connection with this proposal. With this option, I recommend the setting from the Committee, which is part of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1964	I am proud and pleased that the majority of the population today say that it is not acceptable to expose young girls and boys to a virtually unregulated market with more or less serious actors – actors who exploit the low self-esteem of young and vulnerable people to make money, and who market and implement cosmetic injections that we do not know the extent, soundness or control of. Beauty rule and body pressure are enormous among young people. Seven of ten girls and half of the boys say they want to change their own appearance. Young people's relationship to body and appearance is unhealthy. In some cases, parental regeneration is not a good example. When mother has fixed her breasts and lips, why can't her daughter and son do the same? And it doesn't get any better because role models make money promoting that it's not just okay, but actually normal to fix your own appearance. Bloggers and youth pages are sponsored with free fixation on the look and then be able to be live advertising posters for Botox, silicone, fillers and operations. And those who make money to put other people in their lips and foreheads, attract new customers with introduction offers and Russian discount. One bite, and you're a heck! We know this recipe from other markets. Poor self-esteem, poor role models and cheap fixation are a tough combination to stand up to a teenager. The beauty rule that young people are subjected to is bad enough if we do not leave the market to actors we do not know the scope of, actors we do not know the properness of, actors we do not control. Today we leave the youth to take responsibility for themselves. We leave them to more or less serious actors who are travelling in fillers and who I suspect have a delicate relationship with existing rules on safety, patient safety and control. I am amazed that the government parties do not prove responsible and take action on this market, but appear to be passive, repatriated and unaccompanied. At the same time, I will give tribute to the Christian People's Party to support the proposal. It may be no surprise that the Christian People's Party is supporting an initiative that will counteract twittering with creation, but it is equally gratifying that they ensure a majority for a proposal that will give the nitrist Right Party policy that otherwise characterises Norway, a well-deserved facelift. Young boys and girls deserve us to stand up for them. We should stand up and stand with them in the fight against the rule of beauty. We do that by regulating this market much more stringent and at the same time proposing an age limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1977	Young people’s relationship with their own bodies must be taken seriously. That shows the numbers in the project report perfectly. It turns out that 43 pst. all respondents have felt body pressure. 68 pst. of all girls and 52 pst. By all the guys they say they want to change their appearance. The fight against body pressure has been a heart issue for SV for a long time and is an important struggle for the movement of women today. Tomorrow, a case of body pressure with initiatives from SV will also be dealt with in the staging room. There, too, we get an important majority. The draft representative, which is being discussed in the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, must be seen in the context of the proposal today. I wish that there was an overall surge behind this proposal for a decision, because it is going to protect young, vulnerable people from undue pressure from self-image. It's a pressure that comes from powerful actors who have every interest in making sure that our young people get poor self-esteem, less self-confidence and a more unnatural relationship with their own bodies. It's a good store to make money on our young people's experience of body pressure. I notice that the Council of State has a defensive attitude towards stronger regulation of the market for cosmetic injections. I am pleased that the majority's position is more progressive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1988	The Christian People's Party believes it is necessary for the government to go through and promote proposals to regulate the supply and use of cosmetic injections. We believe that there is a need for age limits and treatment and site requirements. We believe that sanctions need to be tightened up. The Christian People's Party has a strong sense of prohibiting the marketing of cosmetic injections, and of ordering and using in private homes. The development that this proposal for a decision points to, and shows the willingness to meet, is a development in which children, young people and adults are subjected to increasing body pressure, that there is an increasing focus on appearance in order to be good enough. Yes, the individual must be strong and meet this. But it's no wonder that many lives are affected by this, as our surroundings have become today. Yes, it is important that actors offering such products and services, as well as bloggers and others, are aware of their responsibilities and influence, especially to young people. It's important. But these actors are also governed by commercial interests. It is not necessarily good for the bus to warn someone not to get their appearance fixed. Many studies support this increasing body pressure on children and adolescents. We must take young people's relationships with our own bodies seriously, and structural measures are absolutely necessary. We believe that the response of the Council of State to today's regulation is sufficient and that no legislative review or proposed new rules should be initiated is too defensive. We therefore believe that there is a great need for better regulation on the part of the authorities – for the sake of children and young people. The Christian People's Party is part of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e1999	This session has dealt with many issues that have raised an unusually wide range of health issues. Now we're going to discuss different issues related to people's needs for cosmetic injections. So we're going to discuss Botox and lip fillers. But what is this really a symptom of? It's not about relief. The need for enhanced self-image or self-confidence is not difficult to understand. The pursuit of happiness is an eternal hunt for many. That the cure for feeling better is a cosmetic injection, I have little or no faith in. That we also have a rather cynical business that makes a lot of money on people's discontent with itself, it doesn't make it easier. Photoshopped models of extra small size also do not contribute significantly to the strengthening of self-image. Good regulation is important, high levels of awareness and accountability in the industry as well. But we cannot regulate ourselves to better self-esteem, reason cannot be injected. I have little faith in treating symptoms, which we do too much of today, whether it's in mental health or in somatic matters. Fire extinguishers are operated everywhere instead of taking the duck at the root. We need to teach children and young people as early as possible what is good enough, give them security on their own through more training in the body, feeling and diversity from kindergarten and throughout the education cycle. We need to do more of what we know works: anti- bullying programs, parental guidance courses, good kindergartens and more mental health workers for young people and children. I have a fairly simple theory that you can resist quite a lot of nonsense and unnecessary things like Botox and lipfillers if you feel good about yourself, feel accepted, good enough and safe on your own assessments. We get such a ballast with us in life through a good growth with a safe connection to close caregivers, and in the absence of bullying. So we're not going to put too much work into polemics against people who use these products. The world is a place we have to learn how to handle, at good and bad. As long as people feel the need to fix their appearance, people are going to do it, domestic or foreign. Although this market is well regulated today, and there will be even more stringent restrictions through EU legislation, it is a growing trend in the prosperity country of Norway to look for perfection and happiness through completely wrong instruments like this. Even if something's stupid, I guess we shouldn't ban everything that's stupid. The parties to the Government shall not be given a majority in this case. Some defeats are worse to accept than others. This isn't one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2014	It is an important theme for proposers to address. Many young people today experience a body pressure that can lead to a desire to perform cosmetic interventions or to perform cosmetic injections without this being well thought out. I agree with the rapporteurs that this is very unfortunate and must be combated. Furthermore, there are a number of other factors that are significant — firstly, that injuries should not be caused by cosmetic injections. Therefore, many regulations already apply to cosmetic injections, for example: related to the product, to the treatment and not least to the place of application. In the vote, the majority and the minority have explained the regulation we have in this area today, and in this respect I also refer to my letter to the Committee on 3 May 2018, where I supplemented the legislative descriptions somewhat. My assessment here was that it would not be appropriate or practical to bring together legislation on cosmetic injections under one legislation, because one would have to deal in any case with different legislation on different issues. I note that the majority of the Committee has made a different assessment of the need to review and propose changes to current legislation, and I will, of course, follow this up in line with the majority's decision and come back to the matter appropriately. I would also like to stress that I agree with the Committee on Healthy Attitudes that are mainly developed and taught at home, in kindergarten and in school. I agree that early efforts to strengthen the self-esteem of children are one of the most important things we have to provide, so that children and young people can make independent and good choices and dry up against unhealthy pressures on, for example. to perform unnecessary cosmetic injections. I believe that actors offering such products and services, bloggers and influencers and others must be responsible and aware of their influence, especially on young people. Here the mind-building work is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2027	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2043	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2052	Here you can enter an important topic for your suggestions. Psychiatric health challenges and drug abuse account for the largest social inequality in Norway today, with 20 years shorter life expectancy than is the case for the rest of the population. It takes a lot to start the treatment for alcohol; it also requires a lot to do the treatment. Both patients and relatives are mobilizing progress and motivation in hopes of a better life. Although drug treatment is tough, life after it can be even more difficult. Getting away from treatment without a plan that you believe in, and a lack of housing, work, meaningful activity and networking, can be a short way back to drug abuse. We also see that clearly, given that the risk associated with overdoses is high. Today, municipalities are responsible for providing and financing services to people who have been in drug treatment. The quality of follow-up services varies from municipality to municipality, and services depend in many cases on the knowledge of key people about what is actually available in the municipality. Mandatory plans shall be laid down and services shall be provided to all those in need. When it comes to proposals for III, we in the government party see it as a municipal task to ensure that the necessary outpatient services and possibly follow-up teams are established in the municipalities. In this connection, we would like to refer to the statements of the Central Association of Municipalities when dealing with the corresponding issues at Stortinget. They point out that it does not seem appropriate for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment to ensure that follow-up services are provided, usually as a municipal responsibility. However, municipalities need multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment to offer a specialised range of services, even after day-care outsourcing, where necessary. Russfield and mental health are among the main areas of government activity. We have already strengthened our work before public health and in the services. Finally, as spokesman for the case, I would like to thank the Committee for its work and for the proposals and recordings that have been made in the process. I believe that good cooperation will be the best foundation for fighting the health challenges of drug use.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2065	Follow-up of drug users has been an Achilles heel in Norwegian drug treatment. When the Institute of Public Health examined the experience of patients in post-protection, a total of 88 pst. that the follow-up after printing was not at all, to a small extent or to some extent satisfactory. In a 2015 study, 69 pst responded. of patients with a 24-hour period in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment who had also been admitted to similar treatment in the past. That is why the Labour Party, together with the rest of the opposition, has promoted this proposal for a representative. It takes a lot to start in drug treatment, and it takes a lot to carry out the treatment, which was also discussed by the rapporteur. When one first starts a treatment course, one would like to mobilise everything you have of motivation and hope – hope for a better life with a quality of life that is higher than the one you had before. For most people it is incredibly difficult to go through such treatment, but the weeks and months after it is experienced by many as even tougher. This is what we see in overdose statistics, where the time after drug treatment is one of the most critical periods. If the chances of success after treatment are to be optimal, good follow-up and a plan is needed – a plan for life with the possibility of housing, work or study, meaningful activities and opportunities to build a new network. When we are going to vote later today, there is a vote with seven majority proposals that I hope and believe will make a difference for those who are struggling with drug addiction. Subsequent protection as an integral part of the treatment provision shall be strengthened. Those who have followed up during treatment should also be involved when returning to the municipality. An obligating housing plan and work, education or other activity shall be put in place. We strengthen the decentralised follow-up offer at the same time as we ask for a review of the Husbank's arrangements, in order to make it easier for people who are struggling with alcohol to get a suitable housing. It is therefore easy to agree with much of what the rapporteur from one of the government parties said, and I think that a broad consensus in this matter is a strength for those who need our follow-up. It's not supposed to be that 88 pst. it considers the back-up to be deficient. If we do the job only halfway, there will be poor follow-up by the one who is struggling, while there is poor use of the community funds. That is why I am pleased that we are today setting a new standard for the after-care of drug users, a standard that I hope will help more people to get out of their drug addiction for good. With that, I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2078	Post-natal protection is part of the care of drug users and is necessary for the success of drug treatment. Nevertheless, aftercare for many has become deficient and disrupted when the period of active drug treatment in specialist healthcare is over. The centre party will maintain the current division of tasks between the specialist health services and the municipalities. At the same time, we believe that the specialist health service must be given greater responsibility for the professional follow-up that will take place after printing – cooperation with the municipalities must become a commitment. The centre party is pleased that the Committee has agreed on four proposals for post-closure protection as an integral part of the treatment offer. Once a first decision has been made on the package trajectory, it is important that the provision of appropriate housing, activity and networking measures is part of it. A follow-up responsibility plan for the specialist health service must be established after outsourcing. In the report Municipal Mental Health and Drug Labour 2017, published by Sintef on behalf of the Health Directorate, every four or five municipalities say that the division of responsibilities between the municipality and the specialist health service around people with severe disorders is unclear. The Central Party is also pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees on several proposals. The majority propose the establishment of several decentralised specialist healthcare services. During the period 2008–2014, there was no increase in the annual effort for mental health and drug work in municipalities. From 2016 to 2017, there has been an increase of 3 pst. in services for adults, and 8 pst. in services for children and young people. This is a modest increase that has been delayed, when we know that the number of daily places in adult psychiatry has been reduced by 11 pst. from 2012 to 2016 and that in the years before 2012, there was also a significant decrease in the number of beds in psychiatry. It is worrying, but not surprising that in the Sintef report already mentioned, the municipalities believe that the offer to those with mild to moderate suffering is better than the offer to those with severe and long-term suffering. It's too much when 7 pst. of the municipalities consider the offer to adults with severe, long-term suffering to be poor. Only 59 pst. assessed its own offer as good or very good for this group. Local authorities explain the lack of a place of residence, the organisation of activities and labour market measures. Several municipalities experience that patients are being written prematurely from the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2089	Many people with drug dependence are undergoing treatment in specialist health services and become drug free, but then they are printed out without own housing, activity or networks in place. The representative of Mørland pointed to studies conducted by the Institute for Public Health which confirm this. Getting restless and continuing to live a restless life cannot be seen as separate from each other. The point of becoming restless is to continue living a restless life. Then the assumptions for that have to be in place. The necessary health services, housing, employment, activity, child protection and social networks are covered by various departments within municipalities. There is a need for coordination of different services and levels in the municipality. It is urgent to make the future as predictable and secure as possible for those who are struggling with drug dependence. The question is who should coordinate this, so that there is no burden on either the patient or the family of the patient. Today, the specialist health service prints out patients without having professional responsibility for how to follow up. However, if post-treatment protection is to function optimally, multidisciplinary specialised treatment should ensure that follow-up is provided after treatment. This insurance is necessary for the patient after drug treatment. This, of course, requires a commitment from both health enterprises and municipalities, with a deadline for the availability of different offers. The services must be linked and the gap existing in the transition from the specialist health service to the life of the municipality must be closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2098	Already then the Storting dealt with the escalating plan for the drug field [[2016-2020]] Despite the high level of drug use in recent years, there are still major challenges in the care of drug users, especially in the follow-up to treatment or, for some, after settlement. A lot of work is still done here. It is by repatriation to society after treatment, punishment or hospitalisation in the psychiatry that all too often misses. This is a vulnerable phase with an extra great need for good follow-up. Lack of housing, work or meaningful activity and networks after treatment can be a crisis that causes one to fall on the outside again. The risk of a fatal overdose has been increased after discharge from treatment in the institution or release from prison. For example, overdose is the cause of 85 pst. deaths in the first week after release from prison, according to a research report by the SERAF. I would like to stress that there is a connection between post-protection and treatment. We will not succeed in treatment if we do not also succeed in post-protection. I would also like to stress that good post-protection should be characterised by the will for good cooperation and the use of ideal actors. With this I recommend the majority recommendations of which the Christian People's Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2115	This is an incredibly important theme – and a very correct theme. There is no doubt that drug addicts have experienced a failure in follow-up after treatment, and unfortunately this is still happening. That is why it was so important to put in place an economically binding escalation plan for 2016-2020, which we negotiated with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the previous period. One thing is to ensure the transitions – where it fails – but there must also be a transition to something, and many municipalities have simply lacked the ordinary, basic offers, such as: a good home. I am also very pleased that the Committee in its position maintains the current division of responsibilities between the specialist health service and the municipalities in this area. It's in the municipalities we all live in, it's in the municipalities we're going to master our lives, and therefore it's important that a lot of this is anchored right in the municipalities. I note that the Committee's considerations are largely consistent with work already in progress, both through the escalation plan for the drug field and not least through the package trajectory. However, the majority want the government to ensure that providers of inpatient care in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment are given a clearer responsibility for committed cooperation with the home municipality on post- protection. I have pointed out in my letter to the Committee the existing responsibilities of the treatment institutions for such cooperation. Both the cooperation agreements between municipalities and health companies and, in particular, the municipal payment regulations for patients who are ready to print are binding – both for the specialist health service and for the municipalities. The Regulation establishes the role of the specialist health service. For patients in mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised treatment in need of municipal health and care services after discharge, the specialist healthcare service, in cooperation with relevant actors, shall start work on an overall plan for further treatment and follow-up. A plan for concomitant outpatient or outpatient treatment in the specialist healthcare system shall be part of it, if appropriate. Interaction, overall and coherent process requirements — including central content of follow-up work — will be evident in the package trajectories. The majority also want to introduce a mandatory individual plan for all patients undergoing daily treatment. The right to an individual level is enshrined in the Patient and User Rights Act and includes patients and users who need long-term and coordinated health and care services. There is a lot of important work going on, and I am pleased with the committee's support in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2134	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2139	An overall opposition has promoted the proposal for a representative to ensure a good follow-up of people after drug treatment, the Labour Party because we believe that this follow-up is not good enough today. However, in its opinion on the draft representative, the Council of State was negative to most of the proposals promoted by the opposition. Fortunately, the government parties have now joined most of the proposals, which have been reworded, while the core of the proposals is the same. I'm glad that the Council of State from the pulpit in its speech now underlined that this is an important and correct topic, and that it still fails too many places, too often, in terms of post-protection. Governments are committed to stressing local authorities' responsibilities in this regard. We don't agree with that, but does the Council agree that municipalities can be able to do a better job if you get a stronger cooperation and a stronger follow-up from the specialist health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2147	Yes, and here we have a very good example of the fact that the setting has become significantly better than the starting point, which was the proposal for a representative, precisely because the setting also includes and underlines the importance of the municipality's responsibilities and talks about cooperation – improved cooperation – between the specialist health service and the municipality. I fully agree with that. This is the background to the work started on the package trajectory, and it is also the background to the work that is now partly in the process of being implemented in the context of the obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print, which is not only a liability, but also a duty to cooperate that has already entered into force. What was the challenge of the original proposal was that there were doubts about whether the majority really wanted to shift responsibility for after-shave protection from the municipalities to the specialist health service, and that was reason to warn against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2154	The way in which the parties to the government have read the original proposal for a representative is not in line with what was intended by those who promoted it. Among other things, in the original point 2, we will see that we just wanted to work together between the state and the municipality in terms of the key to the economic distribution. But if it was unclear, it is good that it has been clarified for the government parties. The question is now: When can we expect the Council of State to have put in place the measures that are still required to ensure that post-protection is perceived as a success in Norwegian drug care?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2162	We are now halfway into the escalation plan. The government parties and the Christian People's Party have committed themselves to spending 2.4 billion. kr more in this area by the end of 2020 than was the case in 2016. In that escalation, we're on track. With the 2018 budget, we are now up to 1.4 billion. kr. We have already announced in the municipal bill for 2019 that the municipalities will also receive 200 million next year. kr more for this work. We see that this results in a significant increase in annual work in the municipalities. We see that it gives results in terms of expanding offers. For example, I want to do this. bring forward a city that is not only governed by the government parties, although the Left is part of the City Council – Bergen – which in a very good way follows up the intentions of the escalation plan. There is now a very good work going on in this area in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2166	I appreciate the fact that the Council of State is drawing up Bergen, which is among other things. is managed by the Workers' Party. I recognize the efforts that have been made there. The plan of escalation is positive, although it means that the money is actually spent twice – it is said that the municipal sector is strengthened, and then it is said that some of the same money is for care and the plan of escalation there. But care is more than just about the escalating plan in dollars and cents for the municipalities. It's also about getting in place, for example. the measures now being promoted. The Council of State refers to 2020. Is it that way to understand that we can expect that the other measures – in addition to a timetable for the local authorities – will also be in place in 2020, so that when measuring the quality of care and aftercare provided in 2020, it will be the aftercare and the care that the Council of State has always seen to it that we are going to get in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2172	The second key instrument, which is also pointed out by the Committee, is the package sequence. The package sequences for intoxication are now being consulted. There is now work to prepare to introduce these from next year. My impression is that the package sequences have been well received. We have, as I said, also put in place the regulation and are preparing the municipalities for not only a payment obligation, but also a clear duty to cooperate with the specialist health service, because one has emphasised the importance that the specialist health service is also involved in offering patients and users an offer after treatment. There is no doubt that many have experienced that, after treatment, the municipal services have been lacking, for example. getting into a dwelling. That's why housing policy is also important in this area, and I'm glad we've had almost a half of the number of homeless people in the years we've been in government. Not least have the addicts benefited.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2181	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2186	This is an incredibly important debate. It's about some of the people who might be sitting at the bottom of the table when it comes to life situations. As the representative of Mørland said, there is no doubt that it takes a lot to start treatment, it takes a lot to be in treatment, and it is definitely tough when you come to the after protection and go back to – what to say – the normal and meet people out there. It's definitely a challenge. But I think the representative from the Center Party said that quite well – under the red-greens the offer to many of these people has not increased, but actually went down. Therefore, I am pleased that the Progress Party, the other government parties and the Christian People's Party agree on a step-up plan of 2.4 billion. kr more for the care of the caregivers. It's about the fact that this government is actually very concerned that this is an area that needs to be invested in, and that needs to be strengthened. It is important to have good cooperation between specialist health services and municipalities. That is why I am very pleased with the work done in this area, and it is very good to agree on several of the proposals. But it is also good to note that I feel that part of the proposals is a bit like turning open doors, because you are busy just ensuring a good start for those who are going in and getting treatment, ensuring good treatment for those who are in treatment, and ensuring that they get good follow-up when they come back. It's good for society, but it's most important for them – that they can get out of the rush and back to a normal life and act like everyone else. Therefore, good follow-up and good back protection are so incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2197	I would like to thank the debate and I would like to thank the Committee for the work we have done. I have experienced the Committee as very busy that interaction and holistic and coherent processes will be ensured in a good way. It is necessary to consider post-hoc protection and follow-up as an integral part of the treatment provision for patients with drug problems or mental disorders. At the same time, it is important to stress that the responsibility for these services lies with the municipalities – which one has also seen in committee work and has managed to show that the majority still wants to do so in the first place. In conclusion, I would like to point out that seven different proposals for decisions are presented in this case, and that there is a joint committee behind I, IV, V, VI and VII, while the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party are behind II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2206	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2218	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2227	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–6, from Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 7-9, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 7–9, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘in the Fachskolegesetz, § 43 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 43. Prohibition of the use of garments covering in whole or in part the face Employees shall not wear clothing that covers the face in full or in part for teaching or equivalent purposes, including on tours, expeditions and the like in connection with the teaching of the educational institution. The prohibition does not apply where the use of such clothing is justified by climatic, pedagogical, learning, health or safety conditions. If an employee is acting contrary to the prohibition laid down in the first subparagraph, the employee shall be asked to remove the clothing covering the face. Repeated breaches of the prohibition may be grounds for dismissal’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘In the Introduction Act, the following paragraph 27(a) is inserted: Paragraph 27(a) Prohibition of the use of garments covering in whole or in part the face Teachers and other persons who, in training and assessment situations, contribute to the fulfilment by the municipality of the obligations laid down in the law shall not wear clothing that covers the face in whole or in part. The prohibition applies in the context of training situations and assessment situations. Training situation means training by law and training-like measures, including practices and trips. The same applies to persons with similar roles working for private actors who have established cooperation with the municipality on the implementation of municipal obligations under the law. The prohibition does not apply where the use of such clothing is justified by climatic, pedagogical, health or safety conditions. Where a person referred to in the first subparagraph is acting in breach of the prohibition laid down in the first subparagraph, the person shall be asked to remove the face-covered clothing. Repeated breaches of the prohibition may be grounds for dismissal’. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘In the Law on Higher Education, Section 7-8 is replaced by the following: § 7-8. The prohibition on the use of garments covering in whole or in part the face of employees shall not apply garments covering in whole or in part the face in connection with education or equivalent, including on tours, expeditions and the like in connection with the education of the educational institution. [[1]] The prohibition does not apply where the use of such clothing is justified by climatic, pedagogical, learning, health or safety conditions. [[2]] If an employee is acting contrary to the prohibition laid down in the first subparagraph, the staff member shall be asked to remove the garment. Repeated breaches of the prohibition may be grounds for dismissal’. Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2292	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In the Kinderhagen Act, Section 18(c) is replaced by the following: Employees and children with children’s seats shall not wear garments that cover their faces in full or in part when they are in the nursery area or are engaged in activities in the nursery outside the nursery area, unless the use of such garments is justified by climatic, pedagogical, health or safety conditions. If an employee wears clothing in violation of the prohibition, the nursery owner or municipality shall order the person to remove the garment. Repeated infringements of the prohibition may give rise to a withdrawal’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In the Training Act, the first paragraph of Section 9-7 is replaced by the following: Elevar shall not wear garments covering in whole or in part the face: (a) in teaching; (b) in free minutes at school; c) at school-directed tours and events d) when school owners provide teaching assistance in accordance with § 13-7a (e) in the school leisure arrangements.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: In post-school law, the first paragraph of Section 3-15 is replaced by the following: Elevar shall not wear garments covering in whole or in part the face: (a) in teaching; (b) in free minutes at school; c) at school-directed tours and events d) when school owners provide educational assistance in accordance with § 7-1e (e) in the school leisure arrangements. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In the Folkehochschulegesetz, the first paragraph of Section 5(b) is replaced by the following: Students shall not wear garments covering their faces in whole or in part (a) in education; (b) in free minutes at school; (c) on trips and school-directed events; unless the use of such clothing is justified by climatic, pedagogical, health or safety conditions.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘In the Law on Higher Education, the first paragraph of Section 7-8 shall be replaced by the following: Students and employees shall not wear garments which cover the face in whole or in part of the fields of education and training institutions, and in the case of tours, expeditions and the like in relation to the teaching or activities of the educational institution. [[1]] The prohibition shall not apply where the use of such clothing is justified by climatic, pedagogical, learning, health or safety conditions.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘School Act, Section 43, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Students and employees shall not wear garments covering the face in whole or in part in the fields of education and training institutions, and for tours, expeditions and the like in relation to the teaching or activities of the educational institution. The prohibition shall not apply where the use of such clothing is justified by climatic, pedagogical, learning, health or safety conditions.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2394	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 10, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to identify the extent of face-to-face clothing among children in kindergarten and to take action if this is a real issue.’ The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2648	It's going to go over VII first. The Workers' Party has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2662	The Committee shall then be consulted on the position of I to VI and VIII to IX. The Workers' Party has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2676	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2688	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2736	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2773	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2790	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 4, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Center Party and the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Andøya Air Station is continued as the base for maritime surveillance aircraft and as the military base for the reception of allied reinforcements during crisis and war.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2816	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2824	Alternatives are proposed between the setting and the proposals No. 1-3, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e2829	Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a new overview of the total costs of setting up a one-stop solution at Evenes as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the Andøya Air Station as the base for maritime surveillance aeroplanes.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to confirm that the process of decommissioning Andøya Aviation Station and the construction of Evenes as the base for maritime surveillance aircraft is being put on hold until the government has submitted a statement on the future base structure of the Defence.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e3247	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e3258	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e3825	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e3835	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e3851	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e3867	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e3908	We're only going to vote for II and III. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e3920	It is then voted over you, and IV-VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-05.ana.ud178e3939	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Is anyone asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled? It is not, and the meeting has been cancelled.
