ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e129	On 30 June, former St. John J. Jakobsen was removed. He became 81 years old and represented Nord-Trøndelag and the Center Party from 1973 to 2001. Johan J. Jakobsen joined the Center Party in 1962, but was not at first very politically active. It was not until he saw the big debate on the Kings Bay case that the political spark was set on fire. About ten years later, in 1973, he was elected to Stortinget for the first time. Here he sat on the Nord-Trøndelag-benken until 2001. During those 28 years, he was among others. member of the Agriculture Committee, the Defence Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee. In the years 1977–1983 and 1991–1999 he was also the parliamentary leader of the Central Party. Johan J. Jakobsen had the ability to see the big lines at the same time as he wanted concrete results. He was the man behind many political compromises in the 1980s and 1990s and took the initiative that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party entered the government with the Right in 1983. In this government he became Minister of Transport. When Jan P. Syse formed a cooperative government after the 1989 elections, Johan J. Jakobsen became Minister of State. Johan J. Jakobsen was head of the Central Party from 1979 to 1991. For him, the Center Party was not just a party, he saw it as a movement. He was busy building layers and cooperating across the board. The 1980s were demanding for the Centre Party, but Johan J. Jakobsen managed to run the party through a difficult decade and contributed at the same time to the progress of the Centre Party beyond the 1990s. Not least, he played a crucial role in Norway’s refusal to the EU in 1994. For his long efforts, Johan J. Jakobsen was awarded the Såmann, the highest honor of the Center Party. Johan J. Jakobsen was a liberal man. He saw everyone, he gave people the opportunity to learn, and he included the breadth of the party in difficult matters. He had his feet well planted on the earth, an indelibly good mood and a laugh that sat loose. He was a guy that everyone liked and that people could trust. We bring peace to Johan J. Jakobsen's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e156	Representatives of Åsmund Aukrust, Fredric Holen Bjørdal and Siv Mossleth, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e176	The representative, Jan Bøhler, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e181	I would like to put forward, on behalf of Lene Wagslid, Maria Aasen-Svensrud, Jonas Gahr Støre and myself, a proposal for a representative on action against criminal gangs and organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e186	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e202	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e215	The Minister for Foreign Affairs began his good presentation by talking about the importance of regulated international cooperation, multilateral cooperation and an international legal order. In this area, most EU countries are our most important allies. They all used to be. However, the liberal legal order is under increasing pressure, including among EU countries. The Rafto Prize for the Polish Ombudsman and Commissioner for Human Rights Adam Bodnar is a reminder of how fundamental principles of the rule of law are also being attacked here in Europe. The two countries where we first saw changes in the communist system, Poland and Hungary, are leading today to challenge liberal democracy. In my opinion, this requires more, not less cooperation with the EU. We have to relate to the world as it is. We have the international organizations we have. There is little use in dreaming that those organizations would be perfect. With the changes that the Trump administration has implemented in US foreign policy, Norway’s relationship with the EU has become even more important. The EU is a guarantor of a regulated international legal order. The EU is our main trading partner. In a troubled world, we are not rocking the foundations of our international cooperation. It's about NATO. It's about the EEA. But it is also about strengthening international cooperation on, among other things. migration. And it's about contributing to military operations under the direction of the EU, NATO or the UN. The new signals from Washington call for stronger military cooperation with EU countries, both bilaterally and through the EU. Our common line of sanctions against Russia shows the strength of European cooperation in order to preserve the international legal order. The Paris agreement on our common climate and the nuclear agreement with Iran are two other areas in which we are united with the EU for an internationally regulated world. The nuclear agreement is now seriously threatened because the Americans are using their economic power to force international companies out of Iran. This weakens more liberal and reform-oriented forces in this country. That's why, in my opinion, it's a lack of analysis to claim that we shouldn't be so concerned about what the Americans are saying, but look at what they're doing. As for the Iran Agreement and the Paris Agreement, they do exactly as they say. The EEA Agreement has served Norway well in total. The working party is united behind the EEA Agreement. However, when the rights of workers and thereby tripartite cooperation are put under pressure, we are on the side of employees. The ILO core conventions must be given priority, so that it becomes clear what kind of international legal order we accept. The EEA Agreement is under threat from many teams. One threat comes from the forces that use the EEA Agreement to conduct political re- battles on issues decided in the Norwegian democratic decision-making system, i.e. almost appeals against decisions that have not been implemented in Norway. This undermines the legitimacy and the basis of the EEA Agreement as a national compromise among the Norwegian population. Yes, then there is a real threat to the EEA Agreement, an agreement that we must not forget actually enjoys great upswing in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e230	Since we heard the Foreign Minister's presentation in this Chamber on Thursday, Europe has remembered the 100th anniversary of the preliminary end of one of the worst war disasters in modern times — and whose continuation in an even greater accident finally had consequences for Norway. I think it's right to have this perspective when we discuss European cooperation and Norway's place in it, with all due respect for the ILO and the United States. Oppositions, disagreements and conflicts of interest in Europe have not been eliminated, but a binding framework has been built, institutions have been created in which the disagreement can be resolved, and not least by compromises all can live with. We have had peaceful cooperation in Europe for so long that we now take it for granted. EU cooperation and our participation in the internal market are essential for Norway’s prosperity. We've had it for so long that we take it for granted. The EU countries together constitute the world's largest economy, and the internal market is the world's most developed free trade area. A small and open economy such as the Norwegian is completely dependent on the EU's internal market. At the same time, the EU is a community of values – which the previous speaker also mentioned – for freedoms and international rule-based cooperation. It also means that cooperation is committed to those national states that should not respect this on any occasion. At a time when international cooperation and our cooperation in the EU is more important than ever, it is under pressure, but perhaps from a different point of view, as was the case with the previous speaker. Brexit has illustrated to me that the EU’s ability to reconcile our continent with common solutions can continue to be challenged by short-term actors, with considerable negative consequences for all. Similarly, when some governments distance themselves from the rule of law, the convergence of values is put to the test. The number of migrants arriving in Europe has been considerably reduced since 2015. We no longer have a refugee crisis, but we still have problems building up a common European policy on migrants that can also safeguard the external borders. But you can see that there is progress in these matters as well. Just because of the challenges facing Europe and which individual Member States cannot cope with themselves, the future of the EU is important for Norway. It is a pity, therefore, that Norway does not participate in shaping the Europe of the future at political level, although we certainly have many valuable points of view. Despite unresolved problems, there is optimism about tracking in Europe. The EU has fought through a financial crisis, a debt crisis and a migration crisis. The European economy is improving and employment is increasing. At the same time, Brexit has reminded many people of the great benefits of intrusive cooperation and the internal market — and the disadvantages of breaking it up. The United Kingdom is expected to withdraw from the EU on 29 March 2019, two years after they activated Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom may have a number of unintended consequences for the dynamics of the EU, and not least for Norway. Both the EU and the United Kingdom want an agreement-based announcement, but as long as there is no breakthrough in the negotiations on the withdrawal agreement, there is a risk that no agreement will be reached or that an agreement will not be approved in Parliament later. Thus, the United Kingdom will exit the EU on 29 March 2019. In such a scenario, the United Kingdom will leave the EU without a single cooperation agreement with the EU and without a transitional arrangement. One of our most important authorities and the Minister for Foreign Affairs is working in this field to defend Norwegian interests is to be prepared for both eventualities. It is therefore with great satisfaction that we note that we are running a two-track race, where we are prepared for either an orderly withdrawal from the European Union for the United Kingdom, or that they are leaving the community without an agreement. On the Norwegian side, extensive preparations have been made. There is agreement on the provisions of the disfellowshipping agreement that are relevant to Norway and the other EEA/EFTA countries, which shall reflect their agreement between those parties, and so that there will be a level playing field also for Norwegian nationals. The agreement that ensures that EEA citizens living in the United Kingdom are allowed to continue the rights they have already acquired under the EEA Agreement – in line with the EU and the United Kingdom agreed in March of this year – is of great importance and value also for Norwegian citizens. But as long as we don't see the final phase, you have to plan for both tracks. We are pleased with the government's activity in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e255	The EU's ambition to strengthen Europe is riveting. This is often explained by increased nationalism and patriotism in several European countries. However, this development does not occur in a vacuum. It'll be like the discussion about the chicken and the egg. Did the increasing focus of countries on national culture and identity come out of nowhere and become a result of a stronger criticism of the EU, or has the EU gone too fast and too far in its eagerness to create a transnational Europe and, as a consequence, contributed to an increased focus on national culture and identity? I'd rather go to the last one. If the EU is to survive, it is essential that the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European Court of Justice have legitimacy among the majority of people in the Member States, and that new legislative decisions with major national implications are not automatically imposed on the Member States. Here, too, the rhetoric of the major EU countries is taking place. A description of the desire to ensure national states more self-confidence such as leprosy is not constructive. It is quite natural that the nation-states want to preserve their national identity and culture. The fact that nationally elected politicians put their own country first is not in itself frightening, as some suggest. It's a matter of course. As I see it, the EU should strengthen transnationality in areas where ‘the whole is greater than the sum of its parties’ – where totality becomes a strength for all. It's right here that the EEA Agreement comes into force. The EEA Agreement does just that. It is important and positive for Norwegian business that we are part of the EU's internal market. More travels doubt this. Then it might be wise to ask the business actors themselves. We cannot control cross-border trade according to the principle of the strongest right. Balances where you have to give and take are absolutely necessary. That being said, it is important to stress that Norway is not a member of the EU, nor should it commit us within the EU – regardless of area. If we do that, the criticism of the EEA will increase simply because people out there don't necessarily see the difference between the EEA and the EU. No one deserves it. It's often that the table catches. The United Kingdom is the best example of just that. It is a paradox that the United Kingdom almost finds it impossible to withdraw from voluntary European cooperation. However, my hope is that the United Kingdom will succeed. It must then be emphasised that the United Kingdom is only reporting out of the EU. So they're not going out of Europe. The United Kingdom outside the EU will be able to create new opportunities for Norway, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs also mentioned. Close links with the United Kingdom are important in many ways, and there is little doubt that Norway has much more in common with the United Kingdom than most countries on the continent. A bilateral trade agreement with the United Kingdom will be positive, but the possibility of doing it trilaterally and extending it to include the United States should be considered. Following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU, the EU market will be 650 million people. A single market between the United Kingdom, the United States and Norway will account for about 400 million people. There is also little doubt that the United States, the United Kingdom and Norway are three countries with much in common, both historically and culturally. In addition, we can all use English as a working language. In the 1980s and 1990s, the Progress Party was the only party that spoke of migration as a major challenge. We remember all the elites, including the media's, rusty reception of this message. With this as a backcloth, it is a paradox that Europe's most politically wisest minds today are sitting and trying to find solutions 30 years later. It is now considered to be Europe's biggest challenge. It is important that Norway relates to the commitments we have entered into under the EEA Agreement. However, it becomes quite unreasonable for Norway to commit in areas of EU affairs. After all, the Nordics have been clear on two occasions that we do not want to be part of the EU. Neither shall we, either voluntarily or otherwise, commit ourselves to EU schemes. The allocation of quota refugees is such an area. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred in his presentation to the initiatives taken by the EU and EU Member States to increase defence investment and strengthen coordination between themselves. This will result in a permanent EU defence fund to be set up in 2021 and last until 2027. It's going to be $13. euro. Research, development and joint acquisitions are the objective. At the European Committee meeting on 20 September, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that Norwegian participation would have a significant entry price. It's probably going to be several billion dollars. It is positive that defence ministers in larger EU countries cooperate on the development and investment of defence systems. Today, much of the system evolution takes place nationally, and the number of units produced is relatively small, making weapons systems very expensive. It is also positive that Europe is strengthening its defence budgets and that we are getting more fighting power out of every penny. It could potentially strengthen NATO's collective defence capability. However, the desire of larger EU countries to coordinate the development of acquisitions does not mean that Norway is well served to participate, rather on the contrary. The Norwegian defence industry is today a robust industry in growth. This is due, inter alia, to: good research cooperation with the FFI and, in particular, good projects in cooperation with the United States. The Norwegian defence industry is small in international terms, and to the United States we're like a mosquito to count. That's exactly what's our strength. Norway's niche competence makes our small high-tech deliveries to American projects a solid and important industry in Norway, but small in American context. Our peak competence in selected areas contributes towards American systems. It's positive for industry and a decent price to pay for the United States, in relation to our acquisitions. This will not be possible against a European defence-industrial conglomerate. The financial contributions will be relatively large, the cooperation climate demanding and the industrial yield lean. Moreover, of course, we will have to acquire more systems in Europe. And of course, all the time we have contributed billions, we will have to do more system acquisitions in Europe. For Norway, it is essential that we have a good relationship with the United States. Europe will never be able to replace the security of the American will to defend Norway. Some have speculated whether the United States will come to the rescue of its NATO allies in the event of war. I think definitely the United States would do that. The obligation is enshrined in Article 5 of NATO. That being said, it is at the same time an unwritten agreement between European allies that the European allies make significant acquisitions of defence equipment in the United States. The exceptions are Europe's largest country. If Norway chooses to engage in committed cooperation in the new EU permanent defence fund, it will indirectly force us into European defence systems, which will gradually lead us away from the solidly founded cooperation with the US defence industry. The result for Norway will then be that future systems will develop in Europe, there will be a high risk of possible defence-industry profits, there will be close cooperation with the US defence industry today, and most importantly: it will lead the United States away from Europe, and that is the last thing we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e289	Recently, Brexit has been a major theme of international policy. What actually happens on March 29th to the next year is not yet clear. But one thing we know: it's going to be a changed political picture in Europe. This week was the Minister of Industry in the United Kingdom to discuss trade cooperation between Norway and the United Kingdom. It's high time. Norway needs as clear guidelines as possible, and we need to develop the good relationship with the United Kingdom. Here the EEA Agreement may be an obstacle to Norway. Through the EEA Agreement, we are bound to Europe, to the EU, on many issues. It is high time that NATO now negotiates autonomous trade agreements with the United Kingdom. This work should have been started much earlier, something the Center Party has also specified. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that brexit is not the biggest challenge facing the EU – it is that common values and principles for cooperation are being tested. We see a more segregated Europe. Right-wing extremism is on the rise, inequalities between people are increasing, and countries in the EU are unevenly intertwined, among other things. on Brexit and immigration. Why is this happening? One is that the EU's central policy does not go along with many Member States' desire for self-government and to retain an autonomous political space nationally. The second basic factor is a system error that prevents the EU from operating real redistribution and governance of the economy — the fact that there is a doubt about a single currency, the euro, without having a common governance of the financial sector in the Member States. It is a close-up for Norway that the Right has not been closed down in its large project of EU membership, so that we have our own currency and a healthy economy. Nevertheless, Norway's government is adapting its policy to the EU more and more. In reality, they want us to become a member. We have seen this clearly in recent years, with important issues such as financial supervision, the Acer and, last but not least, the liberalisation and privatisation of the railways. This, together with the EEA Agreement, limits Norway's political freedom. The government's policy has now led to large sections of trade unions moving towards the EEA. The last time we heard of foreign companies ’ abuse of the cabotage code. When will the LO and the Labour Party see that Norwegian working life is gradually destroyed and destroyed, unless a stop is set for undermining Norwegian working life? I have little hope that the government will ever see this. In the area of security policy, too, the government wants us to link more closely to the European Union. There are doubts about NATO's ability to defend Europe. We see the same trend from countries within the EU. Not everyone seems to trust Article 5 of the Alliance. The last week, the French President, Macron, went out and said that one had to set up a European army that could defend Europe, even against the United States – this at the same time as the United States increases its presence in Europe and takes on greater responsibility. Here I would like to join with the previous speaker, who says that the EU can never replace the United States as our ally, as our closest ally. It's a very dangerous debate to embark on, because NATO is perhaps one of the world's most successful defence alliances. On the other hand, the EU is a supranational Union that undermines the independence of national states. Where NATO membership allows Norway to govern Norway according to its citizens' wishes for power, EU membership will do the opposite; force Norway's elected representatives to rule even more according to EU rules than we do with the EEA Agreement today. Leading forces in the Right have expressed doubts about NATO and have also used it as a break for Norwegian integration into the EU. The EU will never be an alternative to NATO in a theory of power. We have constantly come back to the discussion on PESCO, on EU military cooperation, on research cooperation, on procurement cooperation, on the real construction of an EU army. There was no debate on this when Norway concluded the EEA Agreement in its time. So I would ask the government to put forward a case for our relationship with the EU's emerging defence alliance. There is a debate in this Chamber. Saka is so big that we also need the National Assembly to discuss it. The defence of the country is the most important topic we can discuss, and security for the inhabitants is the most important issue for each government and quarter of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e306	The government has in some ways met the EU in the gate for a long time. They have made everything clear and have been the best in the class to accept railway package 4. They have put in place what is called the railway reform – to put Norwegian railways on a competitive footing. Now it becomes no longer optional. If the government is not replaced – or the Christian People's Party is on the right team – it becomes mandatory. I could say a lot about privatisation of railway operations – it's done many times before here in the hall – but very briefly: the goal of rail package IV, as SV sees it, is to make it easier for private business to make money on public funds used for railway. This is exactly what we see right forces want in private health care – a lot of parallels. The most important thing in this context in today's debate is the provision of own control over important infrastructure to Brussels. If the railway package IV is adopted, Norway will indisputably confer powers on the EU, both on the way in which the Norwegian railway is to be organised and on safety. I can only see that when the government proposes a transfer of safety responsibilities on Norwegian rail to the EU body ERA, this has to be dealt with under the Basic Law § 115. Transfer of authority directly to the EU body ERA means that disputes and complaints that are not resolved by ERA will be referred to the European Court of Justice – where we are not members – and not transferred to the EFTA Court, which is responsible for ensuring EEA independence to the EFTA countries. There we are as a known member. The government argues that the transfer of authority to ERA is of little intervention and claims that it is sufficient that the Storting should deal with the matter by a general majority under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. So SV does not believe this and it is important that the Christian People's Party also remembers this. It's about a clear supranationality, as we see it. Minister for Transport Dale writes in a reply in a debate with the head of the Lokomotives Association that in disputes about train standstills, for example, posing a safety risk, only Norwegian courts are able to take decisions and no EU body is able to review them. This claim cannot be put to the vote. If the Railway Surveillance Authority stops operation and withdraws the safety certificate of a train crew member, the withdrawal will be of a mid-term nature and the relationship will be reported to ERA without delay. The train company may appeal against the decision of the ERA’s own appeal body, which may either agree with the complainant or propose an arbitration procedure. Typically, if no agreement is reached, the case will ultimately be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union, which will have the final say. Once a directive that confers on ERA national competence has been accepted, no Norwegian court will review it. The EEA Act takes precedence over other Norwegian laws. So to the field of work. The Norwegian model, in the form of tripartite cooperation between the trade union movement, the employer and the state, has helped to give us a safe and decent working life. But now this model is threatened. User-friendly actors contribute to the emergence of undeclared work, the share of trade-unionised sinks, and the EEA Agreement limits the power and rights of workers in Norway. It is important that we decide for ourselves what kind of work we want. We will not accept that Norwegian pay and working conditions are determined by a supranational bureaucracy in Brussels. Recently, there have been a number of examples of EU-based law taking the lead in how to organise our country. The EEA Agreement is undemocratic. Norway takes over directives from the EU without any influence on them. It is well known here in the Chamber that SV will replace the EEA Agreement with a balanced bilateral trade agreement, similar to the one that the EU has concluded with many other countries around the world. We are concerned about what the European Labour Authority, ELA, would mean – there is a lot that is unclear around the ELA. But we fear, like the workers' partners in Sweden and Denmark, that this means a new form of transnational governance and control of national labour from Brussels. Public service is a system created to prevent social dumping as a result of the import of cheap labour, and the Norwegian tariff heading has removed the employer’s obligation to pay travel for foreign yard workers, as we know, because it may be contrary to the EEA Agreement. There are several examples of this, and I am very much in doubt if Norwegian working life is served by the development that we are witnessing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e329	In the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month of 100 years ago, World War I was over. Millions of human lives were senselessly lost in a brutal war the world had never seen the husband of. This war laid the foundation for the frantic interwar period with internal strife, mutual enemy images and a distrust of democracy. The extension of this war, which was to end all wars, was the disastrous second world war, in which genocide, war of aggression and fire bombs threatened to destroy the French revolution's principles of freedom, equality and brotherhood. It was the European project that made it possible, above all, for Europe to avoid the abyss of a third world war. The recognition of those who signed the Treaty of Rome was that only cooperation, integration and cohesion could avert a new catastrophe. A united Europe was from the very beginning a peace project. That is why it is quite right for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to bring forward the EU's vigorous efforts to save the nuclear agreement with Iran, because this agreement was one of the most measurable advances to avoid nuclear arms race in the Middle East. The EU is not just an intra-European peace project but contributes to security and detachment worldwide. The EU's main task in Iran is bilateral; on the one hand, Europeans must keep alive the agreement and strengthen the reform-friendly in Tehran, while at the same time they must keep the back channel open to see what changes are needed to get Americans back to the negotiating table. The fact that the EU speaks with one voice about Iran, American protectionism or Russian aggression is incredibly important. Although Norway is not a member of the EU — yet — it is through European interaction that we can achieve our foreign policy objectives. The government has now taken a right and important step in stopping the re-issue of multi-use export licences to Saudi Arabia. I hope several countries will follow our foreign minister in this grip, and that Saudi Arabia will be given a clear signal that there are international standards and rules that all members of the world community – the community – must follow. When European leaders have called for closer European defence cooperation, so that we can raise our important international issues and defend European interests, let there be no doubt that I and the Left support further integration in the field of defence. It makes economic and security policy sense and contributes to the strengthening of the defence capabilities of all countries participating in the cooperation. But we must not forget – as the Foreign Minister wisely stated in his statement to the Stortinget – that European cooperation must build under, not weaken, the transatlantic alliance. Regardless of today's American President, the transatlantic community is a community of values that gives us real international influence. Just as cooperation with the EU is important and essential for Norway to be heard globally for its affairs, so the alliance with the United States and Canada is essential to enable us, as Europeans, to continue to make an impact on a rule-based, open world order. While applauding President Macron's wish for more cooperation in the field of defence, it applauds the urgent call to maintain NATO as the central arena of security and defence cooperation. However, at the time of the signing of the Treaty of Rome, this international role was not intended to facilitate a Community which could no longer provide ground for new totalitarian movements. It is in this spirit that the EU today rightly defends the rule of law on behalf of a European Community. This government has been clear in its speech that Hungary, Poland or others are not allowed to deal with important legal institutions, media, courts or civil society. We have been principled in our handling of EEA funds and made it clear that the attempts of Orbán and Kaczyn?ski to establish illiberal democracies are incompatible with receiving our support, and I would urge the government to continue this tactful attitude to defend the rule of law throughout Europe. The Minister for Foreign Affairs explained that Norway has now reached an agreement to organise Norwegian-British relations after Brexit for all practical purposes. That is good, but, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, the difficult situation of the British is an important lesson for our home EEA debate. When the largest trade union in the Joint Confederation now turns and says no to the EEA Agreement, and the Labour Party is wavering in its position, it is more important than ever to suspend the agreement. I started my post by referring to the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I, a war that led to the mass slaughter of young Europeans. I want to refer to one of the men standing on the battlefield in Belgium and France. His words are perhaps the most important reminder of why we should not take European cooperation for granted. Henri Barbusse said in 1916: Two forces fighting each other are like a large army committing suicide. The inconsistency with war could not have been more pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e348	There was a great deal missing from the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Councils of State on important EU and EEA issues. Previous opinions we have heard on broad foreign policy consensus and a broad majority of the government's EU policy, shone with its absence. Perhaps Minister of Foreign Affairs Eriksen Soreide has registered that the government is facing a new opposition on the Stortinget. In any case, it is seen as its task to ensure that the population population, who voted no to the EU and who overwhelmingly support Norwegian sovereignty, is both heard and impressed by the Stortinget. Nor did the Foreign Minister and the Councils of State talk about the serious consequences of the EEA Agreement: the attacks on acquired rights in the labour market and the undermining of Norwegian self-determination. Instead, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about how impossible and dangerous it is to use the EEA Agreement’s veto right, which was the EEA’s crown argument – that we had a veto right and could say no. So at a time when the Brussels dictatorships are more than ever threatening the Norwegian model of society, the government's policy is not to use the one democratic mechanism that actually exists. Red stands for the opposite. We want Norway out of the EEA housekeepers' contract, and as long as we are subject to it, we will, of course, use the veto right to protect Norwegian society from EU directives that affect people's living conditions, working conditions and our national self-determination – as in railway policy. I'm sure everyone's got the façade that the government is giving away the Sørlandsbanen to England's worst train company. But the question now is whether the government will ensure that there will be privatisation of train traffic forever. That's what this is about when the Stortinget takes a position on the EU railway package 4: Should Norwegian voters be able to decide how the railway should be organised in the future, or should an EU law provide for the activities of the NSAs to be put out of competition, regardless of what experience we have with Go-Ahead? The government will not only privatise rail passenger transport, it will also make it illegal to organise it in any other way in the future. It is contrary to fundamental democratic principles and is particularly worrying when we know that 70 pst. of the population, the British and the Swedes want the public to take over the operation of the train again, following poor experience with the privatisation policy that the EU will now impose on Norway – with the help of the government – for the foreseeable future. The position of the Red is clear: the Norwegian People's Council must decide on Norwegian railway policy – not bureaucrats in the EU. Now, the largest local branch of the LO’s largest private sector federation, Section 5 of the Joint Union, has had enough. They have had enough of EU over-management. They have had enough of social dumping and overrun of the interests of workers. They have been at the forefront in the defence of the EEA Agreement, and that they are now turning around, is very important, but not surprising. Just think of RKL, that the employer should cover travel, diet and lodging, which was the first major winner of the movement of workers in Norway, fought through in the workshop agreement of 1907. Travel, diet and lodging survived the first world war, they hard thirty years, the second world war, cold war and the right wave, but not EEA. Since the subject of tariffs for pressure from ESA, the EEA Agreement’s Security Council, on the publication of travel cover for workers from abroad, the patience of Section 5 was at an end. They have already seen how the EU has wrestled with port workers, how the European Energy Agency (ACER) was swept down our heads. With Title 5 in place, there is good hope that Norway will be able to get rid of the EEA Agreement and its imports of EU right-wing policies. The EEA Agreement is unworthy of Norway and is a democratic failure. The deal has to go, and it's important for us to fight for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e367	In my presentation, I focused on promoting regulatory international cooperation as one of my most important tasks. A legal international order with strong multilateral organisations provides clarity and predictability. It's in our basic interest. That's why we also take the fight when we think that this regulatory system is being challenged, whether it's against the United States or others. When we together with the EU have asked that a panel be set up in the WTO because we disagree with the legality of the newly introduced extra customs duties on steel and aluminium, it is because that is the possibility that the system allows us to address that kind of issue, and we use the mechanisms of the system. We have also, as I mentioned in my presentation, in recent years, entered into an ever closer security and defence policy cooperation with some central allies, such as Germany, the United Kingdom, France and the Netherlands. We do so in parallel with a process where closer regional integration is also taking place in NATO, where there is more cooperation between countries, where Nordic countries are also well represented in cooperation arrangements in NATO. We do that because we think it serves our interests well, and it strengthens NATO. I don't know what the representative Navarsete was aiming for when she said that the Right People have "saw doubts about NATO," or that NATO comes first. On the contrary, both I and everyone who has talked about this has underlined that the EU can only be a supplement to support under and strengthen NATO, not a substitute for NATO. It is a perfectly obvious foreign and security policy line from Norway. And it would surprise me a lot if it was different in this room. It is important to fence around the EEA Agreement. It is our greatest and widest trade agreement, and it ensures that we can export on equal terms to a domestic market of 500 million people and 31 countries. It goes without saying that it is essential for Norwegian value creation, Norwegian business and Norwegian welfare. We cooperate so closely because it serves our interests. We do it because we want it, not because we have to. This is where I believe that the argument of the representative of Moxnes is wrong. He says that I used my post to tell me how dangerous and impossible it is to use the veto right. In no way, but I told you about the consequences of that. It has never been intended that there should be no consequences to use a reservation right – of course not. But what's the problem with Red's argument is that they want to use this right of reservation just to use it, not because they necessarily find something they strongly disagree with. The question then is, is it worth putting at risk key parts of the EEA Agreement and cooperation? I believe that this is not what the government believes it is not, and the clear majority in this Chamber believe that it is not. It is simply because the EEA Agreement serves our interests very well. That doesn't mean that everything is perfect, that doesn't mean that we always get everything we want, but that's also the point of binding international cooperation – we have to give and take. Because the sum is important and correct, we want to continue the close cooperation. There is – even after Red came in with one mandate at Stortinget – a very broad consensus on this room. The EU Chief Negotiator, Michel Barnier, informed yesterday that the negotiations are now intensified, but that there is still no target. The Irish border is still the most difficult to agree on. I will meet Barnier next week at the meeting of the EEA Council on 20 November to discuss Brexit. We still consider that there is the greatest opportunity for an agreement to come into place, but we have had to keep, like all EU countries, the possibility that there will not be an agreement, so we are planning for both. To the question of whether we should have come further, as the representative of Navarsete said: Well, we have come as far as we can get in both planning and dialogue with both the European Union and the United Kingdom, because we want to remain close and close. However, we cannot go any further, because we cannot complete our agreement until the EU-United Kingdom outsourcing agreement is in place. It's not unique to us, but it's a consequence that we have to wait for that result, before we can finalize the negotiation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e386	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e392	It is quite clear to everyone that the Workers' Party is behind the EEA Agreement. We agree with the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is of great importance to the economic development of Norway and that it has had it for decades. But we also see that the European Union now prioritises what I call a liberal economic development, in very many areas, and that workers across Europe pay a very high price for this. We also see more and more that the different provisions of the agreement undermine a good Norwegian working life. Section 5, which was just mentioned, has broken out of this, and I would warn the Minister for Foreign Affairs not to understand that this can undermine the full legitimacy of the agreement also in Norway. That is why the issue in this debate is: Will the government now use the agreement's scope of action much more actively to stop this development in Norwegian working life as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e399	The more detailed questions about how this applies to Norwegian working life, I will leave to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who is also here, and who will have the floor right after me. To the general question, of the development of the EU, my very clear view is that what we now see of development in the EU, despite brexit – or perhaps partly because of brexit – is a consolidation of cooperation, where there is a strong desire to stand together. This means that in some of the larger areas, in which the representative of Kolberg is involved, there is also, of course, an attempt to find common rules. Then I disagree with the premise that the European Union is moving in a liberalist direction. I believe that one of the most important things we can now do to help rehabilitate and strengthen EU cooperation through the EEA is to support the common European values on which both EU cooperation and Norway is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e408	Then it is good to follow up what the foreign minister now says, pointing to the importance of international cooperation. Because we also agree that it is very difficult to imagine that national states should deal with good civilised development and national legal order on an independent basis. Then we get to the point that I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs is going by too easily: the President of the United States pays tribute to brexit, and he draws the United States out of a number of international agreements that have a major impact on civilised development not only in Europe, but throughout the world – that is, the opposite of what the Secretary of State said in this reply, but also from the pulpit a few minutes ago. She referred to what the government is doing with customs, and that's good. But the question in this context is: in order to maintain the legitimacy of international cooperation, is it not time for the government to really mark the political distance from the direction that Trump policy represents internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e415	The government can have two thoughts in its head at the same time. The United States is our closest ally. We have bilateral cooperation with the United States that works very well, and we have also seen – if anything – that after President Trump took over, it has become a better and stronger presence and presence from the United States in Europe. It's a development we want to welcome, and I also feel that there is a broad connection to this in the Stortinget. So to some of the agreements and collaborations that the United States has signed. As far as the WTO is concerned, I explained it in my contribution, but we are working closely with the EU to see how we can help to save the nuclear agreement with Iran. We have clearly expressed our deep disagreement with the United States in their decision. We have also expressed our deep disagreement with the United States in their decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. It should be said that cooperation with various US states in the field of the environment is going very well, even though the United States as a nation has withdrawn from the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e422	I also have two thoughts in my head at the same time. There is no doubt that the United States is an important ally, and there is no doubt that it is necessary to have good bilateral cooperation with the United States. But that was not the question. The Foreign Minister did not answer the question. The question was: is it not time for the government to make a clear political mark that the international line now followed by the United States is contrary to the whole intention of civilised international cooperation and the rule of law, when the US president actively profiles – politically and rhetorically – a completely different line from what the government at least presents as a argument for his active involvement in the EU and for the EEA Agreement in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e427	Now, the US President may not have such an influence on the EEA Agreement, but we have clearly expressed our disagreement with the US authorities and international forums in the decisions taken by the United States. It is a little surprising that the representative of Kolberg has not got it with him. The line we have put on, which is largely in line with the central EU country line, is, of course, that binding international cooperation not only serves the small states – like us – but also serves the big states, like the United States. That's why we've been very clear about it, at the same time as we want, and also do, a deepening of bilateral cooperation with the United States. That's why I've been busy not only following the President's Twitter feed, but also looking at what the Americans are doing, at good and bad. In a good way, it is about increasing the presence in Europe, which is good for Norwegian security policy interests, at a bad time it is about the extraction of key agreements that we place a lot of emphasis on internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e432	In today's debate, the labour market and Norwegian legislation, which have safe Norwegian workers, and which is now under pressure, are an important topic. We have seen that several judgments in the European Court of Justice have led to weak courts; we have seen that the EEA Agreement monitoring body, ESA, presses to amend Norwegian laws and regulations, and we see that, in the field of justice, it becomes more difficult to ensure a good working life through law and regulation. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs said in his statement: «However, our working rules are sometimes challenged in accordance with the rules of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of workers and service providers.» My question is, Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs agreed in Hauglies' statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e442	As I said, we have the Minister of Labour here, and she can answer more detailed questions about this. However, as I have said both in my main introduction and to this extent here today, it is clear that we experience in all areas that it is giving and taking when we enter into international agreements – including the EEA. However, the sum of this is that, in our opinion, the EEA cooperation has also served Norwegian working life and Norwegian workers in a very good way. There may be disagreement about individual cases, but the sum of them — including in this area — is that it serves Norwegian interests and the interests of Norwegian workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e447	I read from the reply that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is agreed in the statement of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Then I'll go a little bit further in the same field. The reason why I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about this is that when the EEA Agreement was concluded, there were major debates and, therefore, an EU vote in 1994. During a direct debate in 1994, i.e. before the EU vote, Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland said: ‘Here’s Anne Enger Lahnstein and says that professional rights are weakened. That's wrong. That's wrong. That is not acceptable.’ Deceptive party leader in the Center Party then said: ‘Yes, it is stated in the economic guidelines, Prime Minister.’ Anne Enger Lahnstein was ridiculed by the yes-page for, among others. to point this at. Now we see that she got right. Is the Council of State saying that the hold that the Central Party leader and the Central Party had is actually what is right today, and that Gro Harlem Brundtland was wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e464	Just as little as I'm going to get involved in discussions that took place more than 25 years ago between the party leaders at that time, I think the representative Navarsete will freely interpret my answers. I said that it would probably be possible to see that in some areas you have to give and take, but that the sum of what we have got out of the EEA Agreement and the EEA cooperation for Norwegian jobs and Norwegian workers' rights is positive. I also think it is important to stress that for Norwegian workers' job security, the market access we have through the EEA Agreement is – which there are no good ways to replace, and which will give us the same market access, the same common standard, the same common legislation and equal conditions as for example. Germany and Sweden — such a high value for Norwegian jobs and workers that it also has to be included in the calculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e469	It is not that valuable for Norwegian workers to have that export if there are also Norwegian workers at that place of work, and if they do not have income and a safe regulation that makes them have a safe job. Since I then freely interpret the Council of State and it will not be clear, I am simply asking a yes/no question, which is very easy to answer: Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs agreed in Hauglie that our rules on working life are being challenged several times in meeting with the EEA Agreement's rules on the free movement of workers and service providers? It's a simple question -- yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e477	I've now answered that twice, and it's not a given...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e482	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e487	Now it is Foreign Minister Eriksen Soreide who has the floor. The President requests that this be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e492	Thank you! I have now answered that question twice, and that is because it is not necessarily a yes/no question. You have to look at the whole of what we and Norwegian workers get out of it. That's what the government does too. I think it is a little strange that the representative Navarsete is talking about Norwegian workers and Norwegian jobs as if Norwegian workers hardly have their own jobs. Where would Norwegian exports be if we did not have the EEA Agreement? I'm not willing to try that experiment. Therefore, I am also very pleased that with a few exceptions in this room, there is a broad consensus that the EEA Agreement serves Norwegian interests in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e499	The Minister talks about the great support for the government's EU policy. And yes, in the political elite, EU loyalty is massive, and the willingness to submit to any dictatorship from Brussels is almost complete. But in the population it's not like that. The majority have voted no to the EU twice — to the grave grief of the Right, but that is the way it is. And to the resistance of the population and from the Red against, among others. ACER, and the resistance to what is now happening with travel, diet and lodging, and the overrun of the agreed tariffs in Norway: it is not on principle that we are against this, it is because it is devastating for Norway that we are against it. So really my question is: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs realize that the EEA resistance is actually quite well justified both in terms of ACER, and in terms of what happens in the labour market – or does she not understand it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e504	One would like to talk about the political elite in this room – of course, it is always very tempting. But ask industry workers along the coast what they think about the EEA Agreement...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e509	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e514	The President must now state that the President of Foreign Affairs, Eriksen Soreide, has the floor. The President is asking that it be quiet from the other representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e519	Ask exporting companies what they think about the EEA Agreement and what the option would be. Ask those who have their daily work in exporting fish what things would have been like without the EEA Agreement. The challenge of Red's argument is that Red places similarities between the people and himself and his one representative on the Stortinget. You can understand that when you get into the Storting, you want to get the most out of your own policy, but the reality is that the people have chosen their representatives here to the Stortinge based on, among other things. that these representatives support EEA cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e524	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e529	In the light of the debate we have seen so far, there is now reason to recall that Norway is still a small country with an open economy, which is entirely dependent on trade with our closest partners if we are to assume that we are still going to have growth and prosperity in this country. It is therefore good that the Labour Party is so clearly in favour of the EEA Agreement in today's debate. In the light of the articles of the opposition or so far, it is also absolutely necessary. Because it is a paradox when the representative from Raudt refers to the EEA Agreement, the most important trade agreement we have, as a housekeeper’s contract – knowing that it is in total the largest export market we are talking about – when it is an agreement we ourselves have concluded, and in which Stortinget treats when we adopt regulations, especially when one follows up saying that we ‘give away’ the Sørlandsbanen to Englishmen who are going to enter and operate. It would have lighted the whole Biggest, I think, if one held on to reality instead of constructing things that at all – I underline at all – are not the basis for. Yes, so far, one foreign company has won contracts to operate the Sørlandsbanen, for ten years. The State shall continue to own the infrastructure, the State shall still own the trainset, the State shall continue to own the basis for operation and maintenance and the responsibility for its implementation. And the state is still going to buy the train services, just like when Norwegian NSBs compete and win contracts and operate the railway in Sweden. We do not buy and do not take over the Swedish railway for that reason. We drive business development across borders because it creates more values for people and countries. In particular, it is worth noting that both the Centre Party and the SV have an approach to what is now happening on the railways, because there is not a solid privatisation of Norwegian railways that takes place. It's an increased competition to give our citizens the best supply, and in a way that allows the Storting to use the money as a user in public budgets, to strengthen the supply, instead of paying unduely much for what we already get. It gives better services to people. Especially in the railway sector, it is important because Norway is not alone in an outlying island. Our largest port is in Gothenburg. If we're going to transport goods by rail, we need cross-border traffic. For those who have visited Narvik and have seen the value of Ofotbanen, who talk very much about daily – it's cross-border traffic. Harmonised legislation affects Norway. When we talk about increasing freight transport over long distances on the Nordlandsbanen and southwards and then crossing the Kongsvingerbanen, it actually means that harmonised regulations tend to Norwegian interests. That's what this is about. It's not about a government wish to give away sovereignty to the EU. It is about ensuring that Norwegian companies, Norwegian businesses and Norwegian passengers are able to experience a harmonised regulatory framework that facilitates the everyday journey or makes it more competitive. And then one can try to make this an ideological debate for or against the EEA Agreement, for or against trade in the outside world, for or against whether the economy in Norway will continue to grow in practice, or whether to go the other way. It would have lit the Storting if one led an honest and honorable argument. That's why I'm talking about you, for example. where, in Article 17, paragraph: 6 of the Safety Directive states that the State Railway Authority is entitled to stop unsafe operation, that it cannot be verified by ERA, and that national safety authorities are subject to national testing, it is strange that the Socialist Left Party needs to give the impression of the contradiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e541	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e546	When I hear the Minister of Transport, he is obviously completely uncritical of the railway package IV. There are no problematic aspects to that package, we must believe the Minister for Transport and the Government. Norway has four cross-border routes: Ofotbanen, Meråkerbanen, Kongsvingerbanen and Østfoldbanen. I have never realized that it is the Norwegian legislation today that prevents us from having more rail traffic on those routes. On the Ofot track there is a lack of capacity, more crossing tracks are needed and after each double track. The same is true on the Kongswingerbahn, where better capacity is needed. On the Meråkerbahn you need to electrify, and we need a new and modern route between Halden and Gothenburg. So my question is, what is problematic about today's legislation? What Norwegian rules prevent more rail traffic across borders today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e553	Let me just solve one thing first: it's not that it doesn't have our problematic aspects of railway package IV. It has been several challenges with rail package IV that Norwegian authorities have worked very hard on and said that we need to improve before we can go to Stortinget and recommend railway package IV. And then I've also said from here before that what seemed new to the Labour Party is that we're actually getting an impact. It is possible that the Labour Party has forgotten how it works in practice, but when the EU adapts its legislation for this to the Norwegian arguments, the resistance from our side is naturally dampened by it. I believe that the legislative design we have in Norway is a necessary level of safety for Norwegian railways. We're still going to take care of that. We'll take that into account in railway package IV. However, with a standardised cross-border regulatory framework, several actors can operate, and we can develop the railway in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e562	That was interesting. I then understand from the Minister for Transport that Norway has changed the content of the railway package IV. I would like to see the Minister for Transport briefing on what points Norway has made for changes to the IV railway package, compared to what was the starting point when the package was presented in its time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e567	I'm going to be happy to do that, both summarily now and when we get to Stortinget with the ultimate railway package. Some of what we were critical of at the entrance was whether we were adequately looking into and making demands that we have special needs in Norway, for example. relate to winter challenges and the resulting safety dimension. One of the areas where we have been clear to the European Commission is that we need greater flexibility for Norway because we need to adapt our legislation individually to that, so that we have material that tolerates the Norwegian winter, which differs significantly from what he looks like further south in Europe. – It is a concrete example of how Norway has been implemented. Several of us come back when we deliver the final proposal to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e574	If rail package IV is adopted in Norway, it will in practice mean delegating authority from Norwegian elected representatives to the EU, both in terms of how the Norwegian railway should be organised and in terms of security matters. We're actually going to put up forever. This means, in practice, that mandatory tenders for the carriage of passengers by rail, the direct purchase of passenger train services, as a general rule, will not be permitted. The package also requires the opening of free commercial competition in passenger traffic, with some restrictions highlighted by the Council of State, but which really does not mean anything. Norwegian elected representatives will no longer be able to change the way the rail system is organised, without conflicting with EU rules and giving rise to a risk of being sued by the European Court of Justice. Today's government has made a lot of progress through the railway reform, the difference is that we still have the opportunity to make changes if we find that makes sense. The Council of State claims that this is not reasonable. What does he really think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e579	I'm actually lifted, because if the resistance to railway package IV in the Storting is based on a part of the line of argument that we're constantly listening to, it's going to turn around when you see the government's final proposal – at least if you're based on what's actually being presented, and you're not going to conclude in advance, as it's right-wing, as more parties are doing. What we're busy about is that we're going to have a harmonised regulatory framework that strengthens the competitiveness of Norwegian railways. In total, the main challenge for Norwegian railways is that a loss of competitiveness – especially in commercial transport. Therefore, cross-border traffic is an important argument for it. The second is that we have implemented a reform, not based on the EU asking us to do so, but because we thought it was right for the Norwegian railway. And then it is quite right for the EU directive to propose that competition continue to be used, but one can also allocate directly where it provides the best possible supply. So Norway still has a lot of freedom of action, even after railway package IV, and it's fine if the opposition also realizes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e584	It is correct that theoretical direct allocation can be used if local and regional authorities providing integrated transport – in terms of both infrastructure and train transport – can use direct purchases. So it must not be nationwide, for example. Oslo trams – and rail package IV require watertight bulkheads between infrastructure and operation, so this derogation does not apply to the railway. If there is one interested operator, it is not relevant when the passenger traffic of the NSB has gone at a high profit. There have been temporary allocations of a maximum of two to five years by, for example: bankruptcy. That's still possible, but is that what's going to be the main rule? - No, I'm not. Norway can maintain national safety requirements as long as ERA or commercial operators do not claim that the applicable regulations impede competition or interoperability – is that what is meant? In addition, the EU Commission may always be notified at the time of the conclusion of direct contracts, in the event of its objections.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e589	Thanks for the opportunity to perform a line chord shift that is largely about bugfixing. One says that the NSB is going with a large surplus – yes, it has done as a result of the state purchasing train services for billions of dollars per year, directly from the company. Then we see that when they are exposed to competition, they also halve their supply, which means that we can get more trains for money, better frequency or infrastructure development instead. It is consistently good for Norwegian railway. So one might ask: if it's so terrible to put the railway out for this competition that we're seeing now works, for example. on Sørlandsbanen – what makes it work prominently in other areas of public transport, e.g. in the bus market? There is no consistency and consistency in the argument from the Central Party, and there is a greater problem than the introduction of the rail package IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e596	I scratched my fingers a little bit after taking up the thread from the last two replicators, but I can't do that. I am aware that Norway, together with several Western countries, has been involved in cooperation in order not to liberalise the cabotage code in the mobility package. I'm glad, and I choose to trust that the Council of State does. But then my question is to the Council of State: What concrete demands has the government made here in this – shall we call it – the Western Alliance? Is that the status quo, as it is now? Is there any liberalisation? Or is it an intrusion that should have happened when we see the headlines that have been in the press on social dumping and circumvention of today's legislation on cabotage, at the latest in a report today early in the NRK Radio?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e603	I think we're basically some of the people who believe that the cabotage code we have today is liberal enough. That means that there are two things that are important to us: the one thing, and perhaps the most important thing, is that one should have a capacity to exercise real supervision and control over those who run cabotage in Norway. I think that's the most decisive thing we're fighting for now through the Road Alliance. The second is that we do not liberalise the regulation unilaterally and allow several days, unless it also requires that one has a return to the home country or beyond just across borders and back again, for example. over a quarantine period when one is out. We're discussing this through the Road Alliance no. It was a meeting there at the political level as late as yesterday. We're still in slightly different positions in the alliance, too, but Norway is still fighting for the positions we've done well for: easier control and stricter regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e611	The Minister for Transport spoke in his EU statement last week about the development of 5G. That sounds good in a technology-optimistic Workers' Party ear. Nevertheless, something is not right. The expansion of 5G requires fiber, and here we are on arrears. The government has proposed 100 million dollars below. kr for the expansion of broadband in the budget for 2019. In its alternative budgets, the Labour Party has raised this amount in the last two years to half a billion dollars. With the government’s investment, it will take 250 years for everyone to have broadband, leading to an increase in differences between cities and countries. What ambitions does the government have for 5G to be part of the entire country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e616	The answer to that is great ambitions. It's a new technology to which we are now releasing frequency, a major investment in next year's state budget to help strengthen our telecommunications network in coming generations. There is usually at least ten years between each such major upgrade to the telecommunications network. This is a big investment from the government's side and shows an enormous willingness to build up the capacity. Fortunately, there are people doing things in this country outside the state. In broadband, we see it better than almost any other place. The government contribution to broadband is a small marginal part of the total cost. Private investment is largely made and is done at a rate never before. We also see that with the new digging instructions, you can construct more areas commercially simply because the cost goes down. So in the broadband area, like in a lot of other areas, it's luckily going in the right direction after the government change in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e623	In 2015, Ketil Solvik-Olsen said that the employees should retain their rights. In 2018, Jon Georg Dale says that he cannot promise the Go-Ahead employees that they will retain their salary and pension. Then the same Dale stands on the pulpit in Stortinget and misses a more honest debate and calls for more facts in the debates in Stortinget, after his party has served a blank lie and led people behind the light over several years. It's no wonder there's going to be more political contempt when we have state councils acting like this. It is also interesting that the Progress Party, which later, as if it defends Norwegian values, is 100 pst. Servile and loyal to any dictatorship from the EU and Brussels. Will Jon Georg Dale lament the lie his party served on the privatisation of the Sørlandsbanen, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e628	The President will request that the representative use words other than ‘fake’ about the policies of the various parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e633	Bluff, then.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e638	It really doesn't matter to me what the representative calls this, because it's not true either. I have said from this that what happens when Go-Ahead takes over the operation on the Sørlandsbanen is a transfer of the company. This means that they will be added to the new company with pay, employment and pension conditions. Even if one repeats it many times, over and over again, with such a high voice that one can only handle a speaker's chair, that's not true. This is a transfer of the enterprise, just as the state transfers a lot of other labour between different corporate organizations. It ensures that we keep up the promise we made for this railway reform: they are adding pay, employment and pension conditions to the new company on the day they actually move over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e645	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e650	Thank you so much for a debate that obviously arouses a lot of commitment, and that's good. Through the EEA Agreement, we are part of the common market. And as I stressed in the presentation last week, just open, well-functioning international markets are important for a small country like Norway, and that has served us well. The EEA Agreement gives us access to the required workforce and ensures Norwegian enterprises important access to the European market. We have a community of interests with EU countries on a well-functioning internal market, and we have good examples of how employees' rights have been strengthened as a result of rules implemented in the EEA Agreement, such as employees' rights in business transfers, written employment agreements, the right to information and consultation and working environment rules. This ignores the EEA and EU opponents. As I mentioned in my presentation last week, however, our working rules are sometimes also challenged by the rules of the EEA Agreement on free movement, which the representative Navarsette was also involved in. Everything's not perfect. Crime is cross-border, with or without the EEA Agreement, it is a reality. The solution is to strengthen cooperation and to work actively to listen to important elements of our work model in the EU. The solution is not to release us. To that, the consequences will be too great. This is why, at the summit last autumn, the government also took an initiative against the European Commission to step up efforts to combat crime at work, precisely because it undermines the single internal market in Europe. Cooperation between the parties is central to Norwegian working life. It's also pointed out by several people here today. Tripartite cooperation is a central foundation for the development of our employment policies. This is what we call national, and this is what we pass on to the EU and the EU Member States that can have different traditions and experiences. That's why we're also with our Nordic neighbours. In Norway, the parties and the authorities are united in the fight against crime at work. Our experience is that broad cooperation is needed to prevent criminal actors from exploiting workers and forcing serious businesses from the markets. However, there are no simple solutions to address labour-related crime either in Norway or in Europe. Many issues just need cross-border action. As I mentioned last week, we now have operational supervisory cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate in the Baltic countries, in Bulgaria and Romania, and we are now hoping to do the same with Poland. It is important with this operational cooperation to get rid of what we agree to have, namely cross-border crime. In recent years, the EU has also taken several new initiatives to help ensure the rights of workers, such as changes in legislation regulating the conditions of posted workers, which we debated here last year, and initiatives on the European Platform for Action against Black Work. In order to strengthen orderly conditions, the Commission presented in our proposal for the creation of a new labour market agency, the ELA, the European Labour Authority, which has also been mentioned by several here today. We have expressed support for the intention of this Agency, but we have also emphasised from the Norwegian side that the new body, the new Agency, must respect national authority and the autonomy of the parties. We participate in a working group to advise on the establishment of this. We involve the parties in it, and later today we are going to meet in the Employment and Pension Policy Council, where the ELA is on the agenda. Employment in Norway and Europe is changing. Therefore, there is also a continuing need to assess whether existing legislation is in line with developments. The European Commission has recently, as the Stortinget is also aware, promoted a proposal for a directive on clear and predictable working conditions, in particular as a result of recent years' development of non-standard forms of employment. Norway has a lot of regulation to do with this, but it is in our interest that the EU too should focus on this and draw attention to it. It is good for Norway that standards are also being raised in several countries. It is important for Norway to lay down similar rules for the labour market in Europe. It is important that Norway ensures a continued good EEA Agreement. The consequences for Norwegian working life would be very serious if Norway were to decide to sign up or say no to this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e681	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e686	I share the Minister of Labour's view that the EEA has made us feel good, even in the workplace, but we have some challenges. One of those challenges is social dumping. The EU has now adopted a new Posting Directive which amends the «Minsteløn» concept to «total pay». It is important to have it implemented at the earliest possible stage, because it means that posted workers will receive higher pay than they have in current legislation. My question then is: How quickly can a person be able to implement this legislation in Norwegian law? I think it's very important that it gets in place faster than fraud.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e694	It should not be on this government, as it were, to have a regulation implemented quickly. Now the EU will implement this by 2020, and we want to implement it as quickly as possible. We supported the intentions and main features of the broadcasting directive. We believe it has been good for European workers with clear rules in several areas. We also took part in the discussions before the directive. But the answer to the question is that we want to implement it as quickly as possible. The deadline is set for 2020, and then we get back to Stortinget. It's the Stortinget that finally implements it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e699	I thank you for that, and then I want to point out one thing. Councils of State include sanctions. In the new Directive, the EU has said that sanctions should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. There is a lot of evidence today that the sanctions we have are not terrifying enough. Has the Council considered any proposal for establishing sanctions that are more deterrent than we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e704	I do not think I mentioned the penalties in my speech, and I am also not quite sure what sanctions the representative Sande refers to, but in the broadcasting directive there is the possibility of imposing penalties. When we adopted last year, for example: The enforcement directive, which is a law for the enforcement of the broadcasting directive, introduced a number of new sanctions that had not been imposed in the past. For example, after the new directive, there will be the possibility of pursuing actors who commit criminal acts in Norway, where the Labour Inspectorate has imposed sanctions. If they then move abroad, Norway has the opportunity to pursue them through other countries. The new directives give us better opportunities to pursue, for example: criminal actors than we had before. It will also help to knock down criminal actors who we know are moving across borders and who are causing unrest in more countries than maybe only Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e709	Foreign Minister Ine M. Eriksen Soreide would not say that the EEA has an impact on the Norwegian Labour Code. I want to say it so strongly: it is not reliable, from the minister who particularly needs to trust in his work. On the other hand, Councillor Hauglie said: «However, our working rules are challenged in accordance with the rules of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of workers and service providers.» [[...]] The Council of State has no longer made any choice. The judgment of the Supreme Court concerning the travel, diet and lodging legislation of the Generalised Industrial Agreement of the shipbuilding and shipbuilding industry has now been superseded by the ESA, EFTA Surveillance Authority for the EEA Agreement. Thus, the subject of tariffs, against the votes of the LO, has adopted a regulation which has become worse. This is more important than people are aware of, because it concerns the front line, which is very central in all Norwegian wage formations. It is an important part of the core of Norwegian employment policy. Can the Council of State confirm that the new regulation, applicable from 1 November, is worse than the one in the Supreme Court judgment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e725	Firstly, I would like to reject what the representative Lundtigen says about the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs claimed that the EEA Agreement does not affect Norwegian labour market schemes. She was quite clear that it affects Norwegian working arrangements. But it's not a yes-or-no-question; it's a both-and-question. In several areas, Norwegian labour rules have also been strengthened and improved as a result of the EEA Agreement. What the representative Lundtigen specifically addresses about travel, diet and lodging has been a long and complicated matter that has been going on in the judicial system in Norway since 2009. There has been considerable disagreement between the parties, and there have been several rounds, not only in the Norwegian legal system, but also in Europe. It is the parties that own collective agreements. It is those who must ensure that the agreements comply with Norwegian laws and regulations. The parties entered into a new tariff agreement in ours. The tariff heading has confirmed it. Some changes have been made to that agreement compared to the old one, but the parties are responsible for the agreements they themselves have entered into.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e732	I am pleased that the Minister of Labour is clearly responding to the question that the Minister of Foreign Affairs was unable to answer clearly, and that it is therefore the Minister of Labour's understanding that now applies. The Foreign Minister can only laugh at me, but the fact is that. What has happened is that the subject of tariffs, as a result of the ESA’s overarching of the Supreme Court, has now adopted, against the votes of the LO, which in reality implies a deterioration, by, among other things, has removed the cover of ‘a reasonable number of return journeys’ from the Regulation. Can the Council of State confirm that the regulation in force from 1 November has become worse than what would in reality have been the consequence of the Supreme Court ruling if it had remained, and had not been overruled by ESA?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e741	It would not be right for me to go in and be prejudiced by the content of collective agreements concluded between the parties, and which have now been confirmed by the collective agreement subject. The agreements themselves are concluded, and they are also those which must follow the agreements which they themselves have concluded. Then it is important to clarify that from this case started in 2009, quite a number of changes have occurred in the EU as well. Among other things, the new broadcasting directive has also clarified the nature of travel, diet and lodging and the concept of pay. These have been changes that have also been supported by Norway. The collective bargaining agreement concluded in ours also clarified some disagreements that have existed between the parties completely independent of the EEA Agreement, and clarified when the rules on travel, diet and lodging apply. The Broadcasting Directive has, on its side, provided some important clarifications that are now taken into account in the collective bargaining agreement. I record that there has been disagreement in the denominator, but there is a large majority who have supported this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e750	I understand that I get no answer to the question. It is far from the parties now; it is the subject of the Tariff which has clarified and prepared a new regulation, which will apply from 1 November. Another point: the Council of State said that the Commission ‘proposing a proposal for the creation of a new labour market agency, the European Labour Authority, ELA’.» It's a wrong translation. ‘European Labour Authority’ means ‘labour market authority’. ‘Authority’ means ‘authority’, not ‘agency’, i.e. ‘agency’, as it used to be. Why does the Council of State suggest that ‘authority’ means ‘authority’, and that there is therefore a different reality to what was previously called ‘bureau’?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e764	Let me start with the introduction to the question: the subject of tariffs is an independent body where the parties are represented. The LO was in a minority, but the other members supported the proposal that was in place. To the translation of «ELA», the Swedish have, if I remember correctly, also «bureau» in their translation. The Danish language has the «agentur» in its translation. Norway has also chosen the ‘bureau’ in its translation. But the crucial thing is not what the child should be called. The most important thing must be what this Agency is actually going to do. So far, we have supported the intention of setting up this agency. So far it seems that it is essentially bringing together the many established schemes we already have, for example. the social security regulation, EURES and others. What has been the point and something important from the EU, as they have underlined to us, has been that they want to strengthen the opportunities for workers and employers to find out about the rights and obligations of cross-border Europe. It is too early to conclude, but so far we believe this is an harmless agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e773	I want to build a little bit on the previous replicator asked a lot about. It has now been established that employers do not pay for travel, meals and lodging for Eastern European workers, and that they are thus becoming cheaper in competition with Norwegian workers. This is done with ESA as a tool, against Norwegian Supreme Court. Does the Minister think it is right that the NHO should be able to go to ESA in a hypocritical way and test Norwegian Supreme Court in this way? Has the Supreme Court now been completely redundant in these kinds of cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e780	I have to say that I react a little to the description that the NHO “hypocritically” has gone to ESA. The NHO believed that the Norwegian law was not followed, that they had the right to do so. And the NHO has the same way as anyone else has the opportunity to try their case. This case has been in the Norwegian legal system for many years, since 2009, and, hopefully, it can now find its solution in the Tariff Topic decision this summer. Of course, the Supreme Court is not superfluous. The government has also stuck to the Supreme Court decision; we have thought that these decisions could live side by side. There's been a long process with ESA. I note that the subject of tariffs has now come up with a solution that they believe can also be met by ESA. It remains to be seen. But I feel pretty sure it's going to happen. The Broadcasting Directive is a compromise between different interests. It balances the different considerations in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e792	The fundamental question of travel, diet and lodging is who should ultimately have the decision-making authority here. The matter has arisen, as the minister says, in the Norwegian judiciary. The Norwegian Supreme Court called around the provision and rejected what the EU has said, namely that it was so-called anticompetitive to ensure equal treatment by also paying for the return journey, because one comes from Eastern Europe. The ESA, which is the EU monitoring body, has thus come to the reverse conclusion, and the subject of collective bargaining, which is an independent management body, has chosen – against the votes of the LO – to base the ESA’s interpretation. What's going on here is that we see that the Norwegian Supreme Court and the Norwegian Workers' Side are being overrun by ESA. Does the State Council see this as the reason why several trade unions are now turning against the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e799	The trade unions themselves have to answer for why they turn against it, but at the same time I would like to remind them of the importance that the Norwegian EEA Agreement actually has for Norwegian jobs. It's pretty naive to think that without the market access that the EEA Agreement gives us, we would see the same amount of jobs as we see today. Norwegian labour is totally dependent on being able to export its products to the European market, which is our largest and most important market. Anyone operating in Norway has a responsibility to comply with Norwegian laws and regulations. You do not choose which Norwegian laws and regulations you follow, and it is the responsibility of the social partners to ensure that the collective agreements are also within Norwegian laws and regulations. So there has been a lot of progress in the legal situation in the travel, food and lodging area since the Supreme Court took its decision in 2013. It has, among other things, a new Directive clarifying those provisions. The subject of tariffs has now come to its notice, and I choose to believe that it will resolve this conflict once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e808	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e813	In the absence of a better adjective: it is exciting times in Europe, and it concerns all of us to the greatest extent. That is why it is good that, over some years now, the Stortinget has had this opportunity for a slightly more general European debate. Let me also take the opportunity to say, since no one else has done so, that I think it was a fine development of the EEA statement that more governments are coming in and talking about important issues and developments in their fields. We are now in a rather acute debate on what free movement of labour actually means. We must be able to establish that despite large economic gains, and despite the fact that labour regulation is initially outside the EEA Agreement, the fact that a large number of people have come to Norway to work has fundamentally changed the reality of the ground in some industries, such as construction. It's not just here in Norway that we see that reality. It is a reality that has created fears that the entire legitimacy of the EU project is at stake, and it has created movement in the field of working life in the EU. This time it seems like all the talk about filling the social pillar with content actually brings with it some changes. The changes in the Posting of Workers Directive were a huge victory for the Social Democratic Group of the European Parliament. As part of the follow-up, we have therefore received this proposal on the common European Labour Inspectorate or Authority. The proposal came from the Commission in March, but it is still very unclear what the ELA will be. We know, for example. not – we have already heard that in the Chamber here now – whether the A in the ELA is going to stand for the authority or the more innocent ‘agency’, which has been mentioned by some. But more important than that, what should the ELA's competence really be? The proposal is now before the European Parliament. We have tabled 975 amendments to what was originally proposed by the Commission and the amendments are split in all directions. It is from those who believe that the ELA must have powers to impose obligations on countries — and that is an understandable starting point for those who come from countries where workers’ rights are far weaker than here — and those who are concerned that we need to take account of different national models, such as the Nordic one. Here we are at the heart of the discussion: how will the ELA fit into the Norwegian model of working life, based on tripartite cooperation, on autonomous parties and collective agreements – an ELA driven by states that have a completely different way of organizing their working life than we have? Are we risking an agency that can come in and override what the Norwegian parties have agreed on? In that case, we begin to rock by a very fundamental part of the Norwegian model, the basis of the orderly working life that we have, and that we have been working forward for decades. I think we all agree here on the need for cooperation to combat social dumping and exploitation of people working across borders. Independently of the ELA, we have to take greater responsibility for the fact that people who come here to work and contribute to the Norwegian community get their fundamental rights fulfilled. The information and coordination tasks added to the ELA are not controversial. It is when we come to ELA's mediation task and whether or not ELA's decision is binding that we are approaching something that challenges our sovereignty in the field of working life. The working party has previously stated in Stortinget that we cannot agree to this. The Minister of Labour has said that it is not desirable to have a solution that challenges Norwegian sovereignty, and I feel that she is repeating it from the pulpit today. So far, it seems that the ELA will not have the power to intervene in Norwegian labour market policies, but that is not clear. We also need to be active in the current process in order to promote Norwegian views on how this could possibly become a tool that fits into our working life model and that could strengthen European labour rights. But we've asked that the government, when it's clear what the ELA is actually going to be, clarify whether it's going to weaken Norwegian's ability to regulate employment itself. It is a clarification that we have clearly stated that we must come before we can make a decision, and it must come before a matter is brought before Stortinget. I want to use the opportunity to repeat that requirement here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e832	In the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month of 100 years ago, a declaration that gave peace in a destructive and destructive war, but which was in practice the beginning of the next, was signed. Now it must be said that all wars are destructive and destructive, but all struggles for freedom, for democracy and for independence are worth fighting. It was in the ruins of the second war that a law-based international order with strong multilateral institutions developed. One of these was the European Communities – the EU. A Europe in peace is an exception in history. A Europe of integrated cooperation to contribute to economic growth and well-being together is one of the guarantees we have for the exemption to be the rule. This cooperation is also integrated into Norway through the EEA Agreement, which is therefore anything but a housekeeper’s contract. Norway’s freedom and right of self-determination begin with and are fully dependent on a free, democratic and independent Europe and a European committed cooperation based on strong democratic nation states. That is why our relationship with the European Community is more than trade. It's a link to the world's largest democracy project, where thousands of people work every day to find good compromises on behalf of over 500 million people. The European Community is our closest community of values. This means more than just friction-free trade ensuring Norwegian jobs, economic growth and well-being at home. This may be why Norway has for almost 25 years retained its role as a privileged partner through the EEA Agreement – an agreement that is in Norway’s own interest, not just as a commercial nation, but as an independent nation in a peaceful, democratic Europe. We'll never take that for granted. The fact that the EEA Agreement has served us well doesn't mean that we don't have challenges that we have to solve. Challenges arising from increased international competition and globalisation can be solved nationally, but we have seen politicians, for example. in the United Kingdom and the United States, which have used the EU or globalisation as a scapegoat for their own lack of solutions. The policy instruments needed are mainly national, but unlike the United Kingdom and the United States, there has been a cross-political agreement on these instruments in Norway, and they have been used. This is one of the reasons why Norway is today a country with small differences and opportunities for all. That's what we're supposed to do. The EEA Agreement has given us access to the labour force needed in Norway and has ensured Norwegian businesses and workers access to a large market. However, particularly after the EEA enlargement to the east, Norway has had a lot of work immigration and posted workers. The fact that our working life rules have been challenged in compliance with the EEA rules on free movement is not the same as undermining them. The solution is not to withdraw from cooperation, but to strengthen it, so that our Norwegian working life model is more effective, with tripartite cooperation that supports decent conditions and working conditions – a model that the EU also looks up to and extends towards. Norway and Norway have everything to gain from the fact that countries we compete with, but at the same time get labour from, relate to the same standards. In fact, however, criticism of the EU is increasing approximately at the same time as the EU comes up with solutions related to cross-border mobility. The Enforcement Directive contributes to better compliance with the rules on pay and working conditions for posted workers. The changes in the broadcasting directive with the principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place were a great victory for the social-democratic group, but I think it was also a victory for us here at home. Cooperation against undeclared work and not least the proposal to set up a European labour market agency are contributors to providing better solutions. The aim of the ELA is to strengthen information on the rights of workers and businesses operating across borders. A total of 17 million Europeans live in an EU country other than their own, and 1.4 million Europeans commute each day to another EU country to go to work. More than 2 million workers in the transport sector cross borders within the EU every day, leading to challenges at home. The Agency shall facilitate the provision of information to people and businesses on rights, obligations and services related to this cross-border activity. They therefore bring together a number of tasks that have been spread across different committees and working groups in a new agency. It shall contribute to a more effective way of enforcing those rules. It shall support the number of members in cross-border mobility issues such as the free movement of workers, the posting of workers, the coordination of social security systems and cooperation between countries to tackle black work and work crime. It shows me that, as a democratic institution, the EU is constantly changing to respond to new challenges, including to ensure a safe and decent working life. And I certainly believe that Norway should have been sitting around the table working on this to help raise these.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e851	In two weeks it is 24 years since the Norwegian people said no to Norwegian membership of the European Union for the second time. It was a wise and forward-looking election that has served Norwegian interests well. Especially in these days, we see the wisdom of that decision. When we look at our close ally and main trading partner, the United Kingdom, who is leaving the EU, and their challenges related to that process, it just shows the wisdom of what the Norwegian people have done by not entering the EU instead of entering the EU and finding that it was not a particularly good idea, and then after a few years try to get out again in the best possible way. The Norwegian 'no' to the European Union was a 'yes' to democracy, the environment and solidarity. It was a yes to controlling social development in important areas. Today, social governance is being challenged by the EEA Agreement in increasingly new areas. It is demanding in relation to Norwegian district policy, alcohol policy, the management of natural resources and the organisation of labour and the rights of Norwegian workers. When one also sees that the British are leaving the EU, it is interesting when the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself refers to their Prime Minister who was visiting Norway a short time ago, and says in his statement: ‘During the visit, Prime Minister May also repeated that the EEA model is not relevant for the United Kingdom. She stressed that this would not be in accordance with the will of the people, as expressed in the British referendum." But that model must therefore be a model for the Norwegian people to live with, despite the fact that the Norwegian people have said no to the EU several times. I have noticed that Prime Minister Erna Solberg has warned the British against entering into the EEA Agreement, because, as she says, I think it would be very difficult for a country like the United Kingdom to accept that important decisions are being taken in Brussels. That is why I have also said that I think they will hate such a solution. Small countries like Norway are used to large countries actually making a lot of decisions. Norwegian politicians, Norwegian elected representatives, should take democracy and the need to be able to rule even as seriously as British politicians do. It is therefore important to stand up to the EEA. The EEA Agreement covers new areas. Now stands the battle for rail package IV. With the rail package IV, Norwegian railway policy in the future and the responsibility for Norwegian railway safety will also be transferred to the EU. Let's take the discussion that is now going on about the Sørlandsbanen: what will happen in the future if you find out that the experience of outsourcing, of letting Go-Ahead in, is going to be as bad in Norway as they have been in the United Kingdom? Yes, then it's not that in the future, if we have railway package IV, we can take back the Southern Railway within a direct allocation. No, then it is that it becomes ‘go ahead’ for all future – if not the company Go-Ahead, it becomes ‘go ahead’ as a principle. It is well possible that the Minister of Transport and the Government think this is a wise solution, but for Norwegian democracy it is extremely unwise. To what has been mentioned several times in the case of travel, diet and lodging: Yes, it is dramatic what has happened, the fact that the Supreme Court is being tried out, the fact that the government gradually bends its neck, the fact that the subject of tariffs bends its neck, and the fact that a few tried decisions that undermine Norwegian workers and help to make everyday life worse for people in Norway. The EEA has thus turned against Norwegian workers. What is now being asked is whether the Workers' Party is willing to turn to the EEA. When Roar Abrahamsen, Section 5 of the Joint Confederation, who has been among the leading front fighters of the EEA Agreement in the Joint Confederation, in the trade movement, has now had enough and turned 180 degrees around, then the question is, What is the Workers' Party going to do in the future? The central party has a clear position: we want to replace the EEA Agreement with a trade agreement with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e877	The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that legal solutions are being developed to ensure that the rights and obligations of the EEA Agreement and of our other agreements with the EU also apply between Norway and the United Kingdom during the transitional period of 29 March next year and beyond 2020. However, it is also necessary to ensure that the solution legally respects the principle of full homogeneity in the internal market even after the transitional period. It is likely that the conclusion of the trade agreement between the United Kingdom and the EU will have to be valid throughout the EEA territory for the parts of the agreement relating to the internal market. How has the government planned to ensure this? Already in the Question Time on 26 October 2016, I addressed this with the then European Minister Vik Aspaker, where I said that if the EFTA countries do not have a place at the negotiating table, they should at least be in the negotiating room. The same European Minister rejected this, since Norway would not be a party to the negotiations. However, the EEA Agreement provides for a procedure whereby if one country intends to leave the Agreement, a diplomatic conference shall be convened between the remaining Contracting Parties. Now the British have not sent such a written notice, and it is unfortunate that Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein have accepted this, because the prescribed conference could provide a formal platform for closer cooperation on the parts of the internal market negotiations. There is no doubt that Britain’s membership of the EEA also ceases when they leave the EU, although there are some in the UK Parliament who seem to believe that they can be ‘hanging again’ in the EEA. However, it is unfortunate that the procedures provided for in the agreement have not been followed. If the management of brexit is to be successful also for the EFTA countries, and remains legal, the process will require far closer coordination between the EU institutions and the EFTA pillar than has been the case to date. Perhaps the safest way to ensure full homogeneity in the internal market is to include the EU-United Kingdom agreement as part of the EEA Agreement for the parts relating to the internal market. The simplest of all, after such a presentation of such a comprehensive theme, is to ask for something that is not affected. Nevertheless, I missed something about the status of our negotiations with the EU on the agreement on joint compliance with climate objectives. It is an important agreement, a comprehensive agreement and an agreement that will result in some demanding balances. As early as January of this year, the EU adopted a final decision on its framework for emissions in the non-quota sector 2021-2030. EU Member States will now develop integrated climate and energy plans for this period and report on the progress of the Commission. Should Norway do the same? The Commission shall monitor compliance by Member States with their climate obligations. Who will control Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein? Is the agreement to be enshrined in Protocol 31 to the EEA Agreement, so that it can be negotiated in the event of any change to the EU or as an annex to the EEA Agreement, which implies that new emissions targets and new instruments adopted by the EU must also be incorporated into Norwegian legislation? Is it the ESA that will have the same role as the Commission of the EU Member States, and is the EFTA Court the same role as the European Court of Justice in non-compliance with the acquis? Whatever the form of association, an agreement on climate change with the EU can update several issues of EEA law relating to climate and energy policy. I do not expect the Foreign Minister to be able to answer all these questions on a standing basis, but it is important that the Stortinget be consulted on these important considerations. For those who believe that a traditional trade agreement can replace the EEA Agreement: they should ask themselves why the United Kingdom believes that such a trade agreement, for example. that the EU has entered into with Canada is not good enough for the United Kingdom. The Prime Minister's proposal is that they should continue in the internal market in goods, but not in services. The reason why such a trade agreement is not good enough is not only the specific problems faced by the North-Ireland/Ireland border, but also the challenges facing a business that is integrated into European industry’s production through the ‘just-in-time’ principle and as part of the value chain. For them, a trade agreement is not good enough. Norway would face exactly the same issues if we were to replace the EEA Agreement with a trade agreement. Trading within the market is different from trading outside and into the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e905	Thanks to the state councils that are presenting important EU and EEA issues today. It is positive that there are several government councils with shares in the case that highlight and explain this important area. I'll say a little bit about what's going on in multilateral cooperation, which the statement also deals with. It is important to maintain and modernise the multilateral trading system we have. We are a small, open economy, and Norway is particularly vulnerable to a protectionist turnaround in trade policy. In an increasingly unpredictable world, it is essential to focus on what lies within the WTO and multilateral cooperation. I'm worried about the situation where the United States has now introduced trade barriers to steel and aluminium. Norway, like the EU and seven other countries, has asked the WTO to set up a Dispute Resolution Panel to assess the measures. There have been signs that there may also be customs increases on American imports of cars and cars. Such a measure would be unfortunate and could affect Norwegian exports in particular. Given the widespread global uncertainty, it is particularly gratifying that the EU exempts Norway from the safeguard duty on steel. This confirms the value of the EEA Agreement we have, in order to gain both stable and predictable access to the internal market. There is a growing recognition of the need to strengthen efforts both to preserve and modernise the WTO. This is necessary to close gaps in a 25-year-old regulatory framework and to restore multilateral connectivity to the system. At the same time, the integrity of the system must not be compromised. Norway participates in a Canadian initiative among 13 WTO members to look at possible solutions. So I'd like to say a little bit about what's going on in EEA cooperation, and that several speakers before me have been involved. The EEA Agreement is a robust main framework for Norway’s cooperation with the EU, and it has served and served all the partners. The EEA Agreement is Norway’s main agreement with our closest partners. It is also the cornerstone of our cooperation with the EU. As the previous speaker, Svein Roald Hansen, pointed out, it is gambling with district jobs – jobs that are out in the whole country and that the EEA Agreement serves well – when we hear the representative Gülsvik from the Central Party, who will replace it with a trade agreement. Then it gets dark out in the towns in many places. There are very many companies that have the EEA Agreement as a framework for operating their business. It is possible that the United Kingdom is not a leading country for the Central Party, but it should be in this respect when such an agreement is not good enough in the negotiations that the United Kingdom has had after Brexit. Next year we will mark 25 years with the EEA agreement, and the agreement has served us well. The safer Norwegian economy, the safer Norwegian workplaces across the whole country, and it has given a whole generation of opportunities to take education and receive schooling that was not necessarily provided in Norway, or to supplement with schooling that could be obtained in Europe. It has also been possible to work and establish itself freely throughout the EEA area, with the right to social security and health care. We depend on well-functioning trade, both in order to import the goods we need and the services we need in Norway, and not least in order to export what we produce, which makes it possible for companies to stay in Norway, to live in the districts and to work throughout our country. Our closest and most important market is Europe, and business just needs this predictability and a level playing field. The EEA Agreement is the framework that provides for this precisely. Some have thought that if we step out of the EEA, we can negotiate a tailor-made agreement with the EU, where we can pick the roses we like, and leave the others. The United Kingdom’s efforts to find a solution that serves them best in the context of the EU’s deportation show that it is not that simple, but it is possible that the Centre Party is intrigued by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e924	Mr. Left's Abid Q. Raja said in his speech earlier in the debate that the Labour Party wavered in its position. There's reason to listen when the Left People talk about waving in politics. On the weekend, it was marked that it was 100 years since World War I ended. Unfortunately, it was only 20 years before Europe was again thrown into a bloody world war. After World War II, Europe had changed – it was a new Europe to be rebuilt from 1945. Instead, the countries that had fought against each other for generations were to cooperate and act. Countries dealing with each other do not go to war. It was the experience of many warriors that caused the countries of Europe to reshuffle the cards and decide to build a democratic and forward-looking Europe. Therefore, trade policy is important. It is important that countries act and interact with each other. But of course it must be within the framework of legislation, and there must be legislation that is accepted and respected. After World War II: the construction of Europe, the new Atlantic defence alliance, we got NATO. I should like to know how many times it has been in the 70 years that have passed, has been told from this pulpit that the United States is our most important partner or our most important ally. Yes, the United States is important. The United States is very important. In Europe and the role played by the United States, clean-up – to use such a concept – was important, and is important. But the world has changed. The United States has changed, and Europe has changed. So we can't just keep saying the exact same thing that we said 70 years ago. In my opinion, we need to recognise more fully that our Nordic neighbouring countries and Germany are very important partners for Norway. And they become more important and more important. In more and more cases, we see that Norway and Germany are on track – large Germany and small Norway. Yes, in fact, Germany does not rarely speak Norway’s case in the EU. The working party is for international trade, for international cooperation and for the EEA. But that does not mean that we are uncritical of everything that comes from the European Union. When we strongly disagree, we must be able to say no. Therefore, the Workers' Party will vote against the five Directives and Regulations constituting the railway package IV. The EEA Workers' Party is going to do that. The reason for this is that we strongly oppose the fact that all rail traffic must be put out of competition. I heard the Minister of Transport in his speech earlier today – or whether it was in the line change – present it almost as if we can choose whether we want to put railway traffic out of competition or directly allocate it to operators. But that's not true. It is only exceptional and in very special situations that one can directly award contracts instead of postponing competition. The department itself has reported in information to Stortinget. We are going to read the minutes carefully and go through what the Minister for Transport said, but I think he went a lot further than there is room for such directives to be interpreted. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the so-called mobility package, which, if adopted, will have dramatic consequences in that it will lead to a strong liberalisation of the so-called cabotage legislation. Cabotage means that non-resident carriers can operate national transport services in another country. Let me also make it clear that the mobility package applies to both trucks and buses. There is a lot of attention around the truck industry, and that's good, but it's also about coach and bus traffic. With the proposed liberalisations, cabotage in Norway will almost be free. It will be dramatic for the Norwegian transport industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e939	Few things are more important for Norway than cooperation with Europe. The EEA Agreement is the cornerstone of this cooperation. The agreement came into effect on demand from a co-conspirator's collapse and the trade movement of a co-coordinator. Not all were unanimous in the result. But the demand was consensual, for everyone saw that we could not live on with the trade agreement we had, which put our industry under constant complaint against dumping. Before working life, this cooperation – between 31 European countries – has given us many innovations. As pointed out by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in his statement, the rules governing the transfer of enterprises – which revolutionised the Norwegian working life – apply to written labour agreements, rules on mass redundancies and the strengthening of the right to information and consultation. I myself would like to add: better equality rules, equal rights for temporary workers who are permanently employed in tenants, and not least the right to group professional cooperation between cross-border trustees – to point to some important rules. And not one day after we got the EEA Agreement, we've had a higher unemployment rate than we had before the EEA Agreement. Governments also pointed to the common labour market in Europe. I think this is one of the most important things about the EEA Agreement. It should not be harder to move from Oslo to Paris to get a job than to move from Oslo to Bergen. But to do this, we have to have a non-scrupulous code. We demand equal rules and equal pay, but this takes time. In the meantime, we have to make sure that the conclusion of the agreement is maintained. In Poland, wages increase more strongly than they do in Norway. That's good, because it doesn't matter. But it's not good that Polacks come here and push the North because they can work for a lower salary than we do. It's social dumping. Nothing is more devastating — given our relationship with the EU — than that workers are constantly feeling that more end up at the minimum wage. Ask the British as a voice to leave the EU, why the voice they did answers about that. 40 pst. that the main reason was to control immigration. 30 pst. said that for them it was the second most important reason. 70 pst. Thus, the main or second most important reason why they voiced no to the EU was immigration from the EU. I don't think it's given that the British are leaving the EU. There is a great demand for new referendums, and I should not be surprised if yes to be in the EU was the result. With the level of activity we have had in Norway, we have needed labour immigration – and we will need labour immigration in the future. It is then important that we defend social dumping, because if we cannot do it, the fight against social dumping will soon be synonymous with resistance to the EEA. That's not what society is about. Something we've done lately. Intensification of the Working Environment Act, with requirements for fixed settings, is important. Removing the zero-hour contract is important. Both changes will be made from 1 January. In contrast, it was then the subject of the Tariff, against the voice of the LO, that of removing the general government decision and the right to paid return travel for posted workers in the yard industry. The present system stood out well, in the light of the interpretation by the Supreme Court of the EFTA Court’s opinion. ESA disagreement does not change this. ESA is neither an EU body nor a court. In all of these areas, I thought the government was too busy. To further strengthen the fight against social dumping, the EU has adopted a revised Posting of Workers Directive. This is presented as equal pay for equal work at the same place. Here the government needs to move around and start work on implementation in Norwegian law as soon as possible, so that decisions can be made as early as possible and the rules allow. Better control and sanctions may be the most important thing. This is also requested by the EU. The new Posting of Workers Directive states that the penalties should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. If we look at the supervisory reports of the Labour Inspectorate, we can ask very much if we have strong enough sanctions, if they are sufficiently deterrent. I think we could have saved a lot of money if we had had more powerful sanctions. The job inspectorate's ability to fine is too bureaucratic and frivolous and should have developed. It must be control. Therefore, the Working Party in the alternative budget strengthens its commitment to both the Labour Inspectorate and the a-krim Centres – and we want more of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e964	The President recalls that the speakers who are given the floor below have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e970	The Intergovernmental Panel's 1.5-degree report is a serious warning that the world needs to act even faster and even more vigorously to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, there is an urgent need to step up efforts both at home and outside. The world has experienced changes in the climate system over the last decades by increasing global average temperature, melting snow and ice, and rising seas and getting more acidic. Hot waves, droughts, floods, cyclones and forest fires show how vulnerable ecosystems and humans are to climate change. Without action, we're heading towards 4 degrees at the end of this century. This will lead to disastrous consequences. Continued increasing climate emissions can turn the Paris Agreement's target of a maximum of 1.5 degrees global warming into a distant dream. Understanding has grown, both for what increases emissions, how to limit them, and how nature itself captures and stores carbon, for example. in forests. In other words, not only do we know what the problem is, we know more and more about what we can do to limit this development. Then we can't sit and wait for each other, but together with like-minded people say, 'Just do it.' Unfortunately, both the world and Norway are lagging behind in both cutting emissions and following up on the Paris agreement. Norway does not currently have any obligations under the EU IMP until 2020. However, if Norway agrees with the EU on such an agreement, Norway will undertake to reduce emissions by at least 40 psts under the effort allocation regulation. by 2030. Selecting Norway’s full inclusion of the input allocation regulation in the EEA Agreement, a new emission target will also apply to Norway. Should the EU step up the climate target to 55 p.m., the government believes this would have no impact on Norway in the non-quota sector – if the form of the agreement becomes Protocol 31 to the EEA Agreement. This has been discussed at home, it has been discussed outside. The challenge now is that if we're going to get global cooperation, everyone has to be involved and do the job, both at home and together. We cannot lean back and wait for an agreement with the EU. We must take climate policy at home, while Norway must be a driving force for the follow-up to the Paris Agreement and international climate cooperation. So the big question is what the government wants to do. Will an increased EU climate target automatically also apply to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e985	Thank you for a good debate so far. I want to start by commending the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government for the fact that the presentation of important EU and EEA matters is now being made by several government councils. Of course, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has the overall responsibility for Norway's work with the EU and the EEA, but when we know that the labour market agency is being debated violently, it is nice that the Minister of Labour is here, and when we know that the Railway Agency is being discussed violently, it is nice that the Minister of Transport is here. This gives us room for the Storting to go as deep as possible in a plenary debate. I hope that's how it's going to be in the future as well. Although I represent the Right and in that way may not have that much weight when I say this, I think it is worth noting the level of activity that this government has in dealing with EU-related issues. The Minister for Fisheries has been very clear against the EU on Norway’s position in the matter of catching snow crabs. Yesterday, the Minister of Industry in London was to ensure that Norway’s relations with the United Kingdom are as much as possible affected by Brexit. The Minister of Labour has been clear in his message about the Nordic model of working life with negotiations between the parties. The Councils of State and other government representatives attend informal and formal meetings, and the Prime Minister travels to Brussels to promote Norwegian interests at the highest level, which we saw as the result of considering the issue of customs duties on aluminium and steel. This is not a new year. On the contrary, this government has always been active, and more active than the previous, in our efforts against the EU. This is my main point in this post – we must be on the road before decisions are taken in the European Union, but it also applies to us as parliaments and parliamentarians. In my view, there is a need for Norwegian wholesalers to travel to Brussels to meet our colleagues in the European Parliament, regardless of the party political point of view. We now see that many of the major issues dealt with in the EU are being dealt with in trialogues. We often see that the European Parliament is raising the ambition of the EU – going beyond the Commission’s starting point. This is the criticism we get from both workers and employers and Norwegian businesses that are permanently present in Brussels. There are too few Norwegian big politicians there. For us who are happy in the Norwegian EEA Agreement and the EU, it is important that we promote Norwegian interests before the matter is sent to us. Then it's about doing it in advance. Where the government promotes Norwegian interests against other governments and the Commission, as a Parliament, we must promote our political opinions towards colleagues in the European Parliament with different positions. I'm going to do mine to make sure that as a big deal we continue that debate and get better at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e996	On Thursday, we could hear the Dale State Council tell us how great it will be when the EU railway package is introduced. Among other things, we received: hear that the overall objective of the fourth railway package is to strengthen the role of the railway in the transport system. I choose to interpret it in such a way that the Council of State believes that we should have a better rail service and that the railway should be in charge of more of the total transport. Of course, this is not right. The objective and consistency of the railway package is that railway operations will be subject to tendering for the future. One can of course believe that this is a better offer. Me and the Center Party mean the opposite. Norwegian Railways are small in the European context. We can't compare ourselves to major railway nations like Germany, France and England. We have a route offer that is heavily dependent on government grants to keep up. Driving rail in Norway with the rises and weather conditions here is also different from driving in Central Europe. The government will open up the passenger markets. So far, this opening has resulted in the creation of a number of companies and a directorate. In addition, the conditions of railway employees are at stake. Bureaucracies and poorer pay and working conditions are the price of a more open market. I have to ask if that's what we want: is that how we want it? My answer and that of the Center Party is no. Our solution is a collection of power in the railway, not fragmentation and disclaimer. In a small railway nation, we have to gather the resources we have. It will provide a better offer and a better railway. Or to use the words of the Council of State: it will strengthen the role of the railway in the transport system. Surveillance activities are important in the railway and more important will be the entry of several actors into the railway network. ERA and the European Railway Agency will now gain more power. In its statement, the Council of State says: ‘I would like to stress that, in my view, Norway will continue to preserve the right of self-determination in the areas that are important to us.’ The big question is who will then consider what is important to us. And if things aren't so important, why is it so important to give up sovereignty? In this case, a draw can be parallel to both the EU’s financial supervision and the Acer case – matters that are related to one thing, just sovereignty renunciation. The centre lot does not agree that this is of a de minimis nature, when ERA will premise the content of safety certificates and regulations on the basis of which it is actually to be supervised. Then we're talking about a real waiver of sovereignty that Stortinget has to deal with in accordance with the basic law. I'm not reassured by the Council of State's statement. Governance and control are central to any activity. Here the government manages to give up that opportunity and believes it will strengthen the Norwegian railway. It's not like that. We in the Center Party are ready to fight against the deployment of railway package IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1016	The country's advisers and other leading employers are consistently threatening, looking and often, with the EEA Agreement every time we propose measures for a more serious and better working life. This means that the EEA Agreement is already very interdependent in Norwegian working life. Professionals in Norway fight every single day not to be competed by cheap European labour with some unworthy working conditions. We have over 200,000 immigrants in Norway. These commutes to and from their homelands, which are Poland, Latvia and Lithuania. Payments for fees, travel and lodging to these employees have been very much discussed, even today. It has been established in general collective agreements that employers should cover these costs. It is for me, of course, that it should be like this. This matter went all the way to the Supreme Court here to land. They concluded that the collective bargaining agreement was in place and that employers had to pay for it. The employers didn't give it up and took the case to ESA. ESA reacted by asking LO and NHO to find a solution to this. In the subject of tariffs, the majority concluded in NHO’s favour, against LO’s one vote. With this we have come in a situation where ESA and NHO drummer Norwegian Högsterett. That's what I mean, I'm totally unsustainable. In Norwegian history, this has never happened before, and it shows that the legal system for workers is now seriously weakened. The losers in this case are, of course, the migrant workers, the trade union movement and Norwegian workers who are even more exposed to competition by cheap European labour. It is now time to address the struggle for the rule of law, the right of self-determination, collective bargaining and a decent working life. We are therefore in agreement with the EEA as a whole and will replace him with bilateral trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1031	Public transport must become more accessible and attractive. For example, several passengers must use: trains where possible. Earlier in the debate, I have not seen that the representatives of Moxnes, Nävra, Gülsvik or Myrli have had that perspective when they have turned down the fourth rail package of the European Union. There has been a clear rise in the number of passengers in recent years, but still only 74 million passengers per year. The potential is much greater. The target should be 100 million passengers by the end of this NTP period in 2029. The left has contributed and will contribute to facilitating the situation. The same goes for the EU, and thus Norway through the EEA, to increase the number of passengers for trains. More competition and equivalent conditions for railway undertakings can contribute to the achievement of the objective of a safer and more efficient railway. The Government will continue its record on rail in its proposal for a State budget. Railways are an efficient and climate friendly way of transporting both people and goods. That is why the Left has stood on to make the railway a well-earned budget winner this year. The railway must be a competitive alternative for foreign travel. Many packages and a large proportion of goods are delivered by rail from abroad. Several places in Norway we have cross-border lines. That is why we welcome measures that will make our railway better connected to international rails. Through the 2015 rail reform, a majority of the majority in Stortinget went in to introduce competition to operate the passenger train service in Norway. The fourth railway package is in line with what was adopted in 2015 and sets out requirements for how the authorities of Europe will proceed when they conclude new contracts for the public purchase of passenger train services. The aim is to ensure good quality of service and to avoid overpayment by public authorities to companies performing the service. The first competition in Norway has been conducted and a winner has been selected. British Go-Ahead delivers operations on the Sørlandsbanen, Jærbanen and Arendalsbanen. The result of competition will be a more holistic, user-friendly and attractive collective offering. For the Left, an important part of our work on more environmentally friendly transport is to strengthen rail, improve the supply of passengers and create climate-friendly alternatives to aircraft and cars. The introduction of the fourth railway package contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1048	I get worried when I experience that the debate on the fourth rail package of the European Union becomes a debate for or against the EEA. I am even more concerned when I see how far into the Workers' Party the resistance to the EEA is now going. So far, I am somewhat reassured by the speeches that have come from the party here in the Chamber, but when I listen to the potential cooperation parties of the Party, I still get worried. Here I would like to remind you of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement: ‘The EEA Agreement is our most comprehensive multilateral agreement. Through this agreement, we participate too fully in the EU's internal market. It guarantees Norwegian enterprises access to the market on equal terms with the EU Member States and gives Norwegians the right to study, work and establish themselves freely throughout the EEA territory. Today, a lot of people take these opportunities for granted. Therefore, the EEA Agreement is not only our most comprehensive agreement, it is also our most important one.’ The fourth railway package of the EU is about the EU wanting to revitalise the rail system in Europe – to make it competitive. It contains standardisations enabling cross-border rail traffic in the EU: common signalling system for all countries; ERTMS; harmonisation of legislation and technical solutions; stronger and equal safety management requirements in all countries; and non-discriminatory access to rail markets. These are important measures that will also strengthen Norwegian rail in the face of a world that is increasingly on the road. The fourth rail package of the EU will provide us with more cross-border passenger and freight transport. The Norwegian authorities have made representations on the design of the railway package and have been able to see through to areas such as both safety and freedom to design national requirements, inter alia. weather conditions, geographic structures and power supply. Railways can become a means of transport that connects Europe better than they do today. We also need to take decisions that strengthen the railways and strengthen European cooperation. The fourth railway package of the EU is part of a ground-breaking international train effort in which railway packages I, II and III have already been completed. As a consequence, competition in freight transport was opened up in 2007. Now it must also benefit passenger traffic. This is the most controversial point in the railway package. Here, however, it must be pointed out that this is something we have already implemented in our national railway policy – not because we have to, but because we want to. The flight train AS and NSB Gjøvikbanen AS serve their customers following a previous competition. Now we get a new carrier on the South Coast. We follow the Norwegian model with which we have good experience in other public transport. The fourth railway package of the EU does not change this. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘Nordic interests are best safeguarded if we actively participate in the development of common rules, not by reserving ourselves afterwards.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1071	I would like to thank you for the presentations on important EU and EEA issues. Increased mobility and a level playing field require international standardisation, legislation and advanced safety equipment. Therefore, it is positive that the EU pays more attention to transport. In addition, I think it is interesting that the EU is now proposing CO 2 standards for heavy-duty vehicles. The transport industry accounts for a significant share of emissions, and this can contribute to cleaner heavy-duty vehicles on the roads, and we need to follow up our climate obligations. Former State Councillor Solvik-Olsen stated in May: ‘We are not satisfied with the proposed changes to EU legislation on the carriage of goods by road. We need other solutions to combat social dumping, to strengthen clean conditions of competition and to ensure even better road safety.’ This is good – it's actually very good. These words should be translated into action and into stronger instruments at home as well. Our transport industry is under pressure. The prevalence of social dumping is difficult to measure. In a few years we in Norway have lost 4,000 truck drivers, so we realize that this is serious. We should intensify and strengthen the control mechanisms. On a recent check, eight cars were taken for illegal cabotage, for falsifying the consignment note and not having complied with the rest periods, and we hear about unworthy conditions. In several national budget proposals, the Workers’ Party has proposed to grant more funds for the control of illegal cabotage operations and, in particular, to introduce a digital system that will make it easier and faster for those to control and which makes it more difficult to cheat. This system has been introduced in Germany with good luck, where electronic shipping letters are linked to the goods. There is still disagreement within the EU about the mobility package, and that can be a good sign. It should finally contain strong instruments against social dumping. Then we'll see what the government's focus is on when the mobility package is presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1094	On behalf of the Left, I would say that the Left is a yes-to-EEA party and for international rule-driven cooperation. I am the head of the Energy and Environment Committee in Stortinget, and we are totally dependent on international regulatory cooperation to address the major challenges we face in climate and environment. The Paris Agreement is so far a good example that international cooperation can, in its best interests, create offensive cooperation between nations. But we are facing an implementation that will be demanding towards 2030. That is why, fortunately, the Stortinget has decided that we should link ourselves to the EU's climate strategy by 2030 and cut 40 pst. jointly. Together, we're going to do what Europe as a continent and also the whole world needs. Pure energy is also an example of a package that has been much discussed, the so-called winter package, which in Norway became a little debate about ACER. It's one of eight parts of that package. Now I hear from the debate that it is also being mobilised against a railway package. But these are packages for – there are packages for climate, there are packages for a better environment, there are packages for consumers that need better solutions. So to Brexit: the United Kingdom is a major energy player, and Norway has a great deal of cooperation with the United Kingdom in this way. It will continue when the United Kingdom leaves the EU, and it will be enough for Norway to reach bilateral agreements with the United Kingdom to ensure important energy cooperation in the future. Therefore, it is not time to experiment with the EEA Agreement now, it is now time to be prepared to conclude all the bilateral agreements. Fortunately, we have the North on the other side, we have a long and good energy cooperation established in the Nordic region. 25 years of joint power exchange has been good for all Nordic countries. When we are faced with such digitisation as we are now doing in the power sector, it is important that we continue that cooperation. The North Sea is located between the United Kingdom and Norway, and here we still have to do a lot in common. It is also important to safeguard those interests. Then I hear Red, SV and the Center Party. Red appears to be a wandering reservation against, and I don't understand what they really are for. SV will terminate the EEA Agreement and the Central Party will have its seat on Severin Severen. But in the big challenge we're facing, it's not he we're supposed to cheer on, it's international cooperation we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1107	In the debate we have, I think it is necessary to recognise that of course it is that the EEA Agreement reduces Norwegian independence in a number of areas, it is clear that it does. All international agreements make it to a certain extent. What is necessary to say – especially when we hear the representative of Moxnes from Red calling this a housekeeper contract – is that all this about the economy and what it has meant for the economy, we agree, and we have seen that. But it's also asking yourself, what is the alternative to international cooperation? Is there anyone who can believe that the nation-states of Europe – all the nation-states, then, in the case – should be able to deal with this in a better way alone? I expect that one will not have the European Union, and not just that we should not be involved, one must expect ideology to be independent states. It's completely illusory and completely impossible to understand, I would say. And at least it won't get any better, it's pretty obvious. This is the basis for the Workers' Party's position and support for the EEA Agreement. Saying that it's a housekeeper's contract, I'm taking a break from it. But when I have said that, there is another problem that I notice that the right-hand side and the government do not respect enough in this debate, and therefore it lasts and lasts longer than many times before when we have discussed the EEA matter. I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs rejected my claim for a liberalist development in Europe, and she has resorted to a technique of debate – which I think she should get used to – saying that she is very surprised that the representative has not understood this and this, or says it is a little strange that the representative has not understood this and this. She should get rid of that. But I can say that I think it is a little strange that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not seen the liberalist development in Europe, which is therefore about a significant development of differences where wealth accumulates in fewer and fewer hands, and where we get a supranationality that triggers the legitimacy of the EEA Agreement. It should worry the right-hand side significantly. With regard to the ESA judgment now, the railway package and the transport, it raises major questions for the Workers' Party as to whether this is going well for the future. The trade union movement is about to say no, and then the government should really start responding. It's a little strange that they don't see it any other way than by rejecting it, as they do in this debate. It is very serious for the future of the EEA Agreement if legitimacy is fed up, as it is about to become.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1118	There is more to bet on rail than ever in Norway, but when I hear the debate, I am a little in doubt that the opposition has brought it with me. That's why I allow myself to repeat it: the investment budget is bigger than ever, and intercity is the big bet. Over 100 new train sets have been put in place in recent years, which means increased capacity in passenger transport. The means of maintenance and renewal have almost doubled. New digital control and signalling system is being rolled out, and a comprehensive rail freight package has been put in place in the national transport plan – just to mention something. And we see evolution: Traveling flows to the train as never before. In 2017, there were 11 million more passengers by train than in 2012. That's good. But we have to move on. That is why we are in the process of implementing a rail reform. It involves a new organisation of the railway that clarifies responsibility, facilitates a more targeted structure and places the customer in the centre. So we're not introducing competition and tenders in the rail sector because the EU thinks it's a good idea, but because it's going to give a better offer to the customer. The offer of the Sørlandsbanen shows that competition also works on rail, as in other public transport. The companies extend a little longer, they put customers in the center, and it is added up to a significant growth in the number of travelers. It's good for the train passengers, but it's also good for the state, who gets more railway for each penny. New customers are the most important competition criterion for the companies that have participated in the competition on the Sørlandsbanen. Convergence is one important element of the railway package IV, but only part of it which is a quite comprehensive organisation for cross-border rail traffic in Europe. If we are to get more goods on track, we also need to facilitate the transport of goods by train beyond Sweden. The fourth rail package of the EU is about standardising rail in Europe, so that it becomes a real alternative to freight and cross-border transport. So it's easier to run cross-border train traffic and get more goods on the road with Railway Package IV, and I thought that was actually a political agreement. Security is also being asked. However, it is still the State Railway Authority which is to supervise and control the activities to run trains in Norway. If companies do not comply, they will be stopped. So we're not going to give up this control. We can even make strange demands if there are grounds for doing so. The State is still the owner of the railway infrastructure and it is the State which is to control the safety of the railway track. Railway package IV involves coordination and harmonisation of cross-border rail traffic which facilitates the establishment of good cross-border offers. It is strange then that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, which otherwise hold fine celebrations of more goods on the track, do not see the value of better coordination of European rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1131	First of all, the representative Helge Orten, who says that the suspension of the tender on Sørlandsbanen is proof that competition works. I guess it's selling the famous bear skin before the bear is shot. I guess we have to think about how this works. Of course, the EEA has a huge impact on Norwegian society, on Norwegian independence and on national laws and regulations. Everyone sees that. When the EEA Agreement entered into force in January 1994, the Agreement contained 256 acts, i.e. Regulations, directives and judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Today there are more than 13 000 of them. The EEA Agreement has been greatly expanded over the years and is something quite different today than it was in 1994. Those who believed that the EEA Agreement was a kind of national compromise in 1994 really need to rethink it and get a new, clear-cut position. The four freedoms apply, and there are, above all, freedoms that make capital grow. It should be easier to make money, not for the many, but for the few. The European Economic Area has a strong tendency to ignore the fact that it is precisely this membership that means that we are struggling with social dumping in the world of work, with a kind of wild vest of non-resident carriers on Norwegian roads, and that the very foundations of the Nordic welfare model are faltering right now. Why can't the EEA trailers at least admit this? It's the huge shadows of EEA membership that make us almost members, but without any rights to influence in particular. The EU’s decision is almost daily downwards, and that is among other things. two outcomes of this debate today, namely the EU regulations on transport and working life. Then, of course, the followers would say that SV does not see the benefits of membership. It's a natural line. Yes, of course, we see the benefits of market access for many important Norwegian products. But we'll never see if the kind of trade agreements that we're pointing at would have done exactly the same good. We'll never have to try it. Most fun is to refer to Switzerland in this context. They are not EEA members, they have many trade agreements with the EU, and it seems that they are doing quite well. They even have a large public owned railway – it is interesting right here today – the Bundesbahnen, which is responsible for both trains and rails. They divorced in 1996 in Norway. The trains there go as exactly as their Swiss clocks do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1147	For Norwegian business, access to the internal market is of fundamental importance. 80 pst. of what we export, sold to the EU. 4 pst. EU imports come from Norway. There is no doubt about who has the most to earn from having an appointment that works. Norway is the world's second largest maritime food exporter, and the EU is undoubtedly our main market. Almost 60 pst. Norwegian maritime food exports go to the EU. Norwegian exports to the European market are larger than total Norwegian exports to Asia, the United States, Canada, Latin America, Africa and Oceania. The EEA Agreement ensures Norwegian business access to a ‘home market’ of 31 countries and 500 million people and a level playing field for Norwegian business in our largest market. Every seafood activity in Norway approved by the Food Authority has automatic access to the marketing of seafood in the rest of the EEA territory. Norway and the EU have had extensive administrative cooperation in the North Sea for 40 years. Brexit is changing something, but the image is still uncertain. It is up to the negotiating parties themselves — the EU and the United Kingdom — to find solutions that they can agree on. We don't have a single fish left to lubricate the negotiations, so on our side it's a prerequisite that the allocation of quotas between the EU and the United Kingdom is solved. The EU has committed itself to continuing market access for Norwegian seafood regardless of the number of EU Member States. The outcome of the brexit negotiations is unclear. It can go against a no deal. As from 30 March 2019, Norway may no longer have access to the market with the United Kingdom. Politically speaking, the United Kingdom has indicated that it wishes to maintain the existing customs regime at sea food from Norway. It is therefore important that we have as close cooperation as possible after Brexit. A bilateral agreement with the United Kingdom must provide at least as good market access as the EEA Agreement and preferably be better for maritime food than what we have with the EU today. It is also important that Norwegian fishermen still have access to British fishing grounds such as today. As far as the EU is concerned, I think it is also possible here to have better access to the market for seafood than we have today. The government and the Minister for Fisheries are working very well on this. The EU recently made a proposal for quota regulation for 2019, which once again facilitates the allocation of snow crab licences to EU vessels on Norwegian continental shelf without the agreement of the Norwegian authorities. Norway is stuck on the previous line: The regulation and capture of snow crabs are subject to the rules of the Law of the Sea for the continental shelf and are not covered by the Svalbard Treaty. Therefore, interception may only take place on the basis of an allowance-exchange agreement. That is why it is an important and proper line the Minister for Fisheries is leading. When they get on the Norwegian pedestal, we react – bring them to land and punish them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1173	The EEA Agreement is a domestic contract for Norway. That's what it's been like since 1994. There is a precise description of the power relationship between Norway and the European Union. The EEA Agreement provides a vitally important framework for the Norwegian social system. 13 000 EU regulations show that. The framework continues to be more urgent for elected representatives. The EEA therefore weakens the ability of the EEA to correct capital forces. The EEA is therefore like a torpedo in the middle of Norwegian social democracy, because it weakens the correction of capital forces of the elected people, it weakens a well-organised working life. Still more people are experiencing it. In particular, the free movement of workers and service providers, i.e. the free movement of workers, the complicity of work. More and more people experience less respect for them as skilled workers. They experience unfair competition in a common EEA labour market outside the Nordic region. Many good young people from Eastern Europe are willing to work for pay and working conditions that are lower than those needed to have a safe family life in Norway. Vocational training fails among young people, which is needed to build on Norway. When this only continues, it means – as the Labour Party Leif Sande said – that the fight against social dumping is becoming more and more consistent with the fight against the EEA. At the right of Norway is the foremost Union party. In today's debate, we learn that the right now is also the most energetic party for the EEA. That makes sense. The EEA sets a tighter and tighter framework for the Storting's ability to correct capital forces. It's seamsily right-wing pleased. It's maritime right-wing policy. It's always been like that in Norwegian history. The most important thing in the future is therefore the election of the Workers' Party. The representative, Kolberg, challenged the Right by asking: Does the Right address the EU's liberalist challenge and development? I can ask you: does the Labour Party see the liberalist development of the EU, with which we are linked through the EEA Agreement? What does the Workers' Party intend to exploit the EEA Agreement? In publicising the rules of the workshop agreement on travel, diet and lodging, which means a great deal of money, negotiations have been ongoing on the exploitation of the EEA Agreement space for several years. The result was a poorer Norwegian generalisation regulation from 1 November this year. Both the leaders of the Right and the Labour Party have been involved in the solution as well as the leaders of the LOs and the NHO. What else can be done? The Labour Party has no answers, of course. The EEA Agreement is based on the four freedoms of market forces, including: the free movement of labour between countries with very different pay and working conditions and unemployment, for example Romania, and this breaks down Norwegian agility. It is essential to replace the free movement of labour with regulation of labour movements outside the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1188	European cooperation has been under heavy pressure in recent years. We can mention the financial crisis ten years ago, the refugee crisis we have just been through and still marks, brexit, which is under negotiation, and populist movements that promise measures in their homeland, which cannot be financed. Despite this, it is gratifying to announce that European support for the EU has not been greater in a very long time. The latest survey, conducted annually by the EU in all of its Member States, with over 27 000 people asked, shows that since 1983 no more Europeans have thought that the EU is an advantage for their own country. 68 pst. this is the opinion of the survey respondents. In other words, the EU has not had a greater upturn of 35 years. Why? Well, you point to economic factors and the security of not being threatened by their neighboring countries. At the same time, the same study shows that the entire 62 pst. believes that EU membership is a good thing. There is a majority in all EU countries to remain a member, if there was a vote today. I mention this because it has been done quickly in this Chamber to become navigable and stop all EU discussions at the Norwegian border. But then it is important that we do not forget to lift our eyes, that we do not forget that the European Union is a project that is peace-keeping, socially equalising and creates one of the world's most well-functioning markets between countries. That's why I'm reacting to the fact that parties in this room, like Red and SV, who refer to themselves as solidarity parties, choose to pull up the ladder in terms of their comrades in the rest of Europe. They will have Norway out of the EEA Agreement and have a free trade agreement instead. So market access, we're going to have to make money to sell farmed salmon and gas is fine, but to contribute money that balances differences, which allows workers in other countries to come here and experience a well-organised working life and a decent wage, get an education or participate in research projects – we're not going to have that. They are an enormous paradox that so-called solidarity parties in this room are the foremost champions of pulling up the ladder and saying no to all the actions that are good for European citizens, who raise them at the bottom, as long as there is a danger that our goods will have to give up in some rare cases. The definition of solidarity is ‘a concept that describes a sense of solidarity and cohesion between individuals or groups. The word is often used in professional policy contexts’. Well, for some people in this room, this definition applies only to the inside of the Norwegian border, and that's not what Norway I want to have as part of the European family.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1199	I noticed that the representative Wang Soleim believes that we should weaken the rights of Norwegian workers, in the name of solidarity. This is a very unwise strategy. I also noticed that it is almost a borderless tribute to the EEA Agreement from a number of representatives in this room. When you are boundless in love, it is often not so easy to see that there are other fish in the sea, and when you are boundless in love with the EEA Agreement, it is not so easy to see that there are other alternatives. However, the European Union has approx. 200 trade agreements in forty different variants. Since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement, no country has entered into the EEA Agreement. There are no other countries that have chosen the EEA. When South Korea negotiated a trade agreement with the EU, they did not select the EEA. When Canada negotiates a trade agreement with the EU, they do not choose the EEA either. When the British are going to have a new contractual relationship after leaving the EU, their Prime Minister says that the EEA is out of date and that it is not in line with the will of the people. But for the majority in this room, it's obviously more important to doubt an agreement that we only share with a few hundred thousand Icelanders and first Hans Adam 2 of Liechtenstein. The centre party has greater ambitions for international cooperation than that. And to this which is said about rail and cross-border transport, and that is why we are obviously going to cooperate through the EEA and have constantly new rail packages: cross-border transport between Norway and Sweden has been on board since 1991 – since before the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. Norway and Sweden were among those in the front line of Europe for just cross-border transport. We don't need railway package IV for that. On the other hand, what the rail package IV will lead to is that Norwegian railway policy, as well as supervision and control, will ultimately be put in the hands of the EU. For in cases of conflict, the first EU to issue a safety certificate for which companies will be able to run on Norwegian rails. In that case, it is not a standard laid down by a collective agreement – and the conflict that occurred a few years ago on the Norwegian railway – that is not the basis for the EU. And the conflicts that will have to arise if a company complains that transport in Norway is refused, it is the European Court of Justice that will ultimately decide. It's unwise, so it's very important that you say no to railway package IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1212	Some of the central themes of the government’s strategy for cooperation with the EU are increasing competitiveness, and this is where both transport and labour fit well into this issue. But there is no doubt that if we are to talk about competitiveness and value creation, we also need to talk about how we can achieve better quality in research and education. Our relationship with Europe is crucial for Norwegian exports and investments, but also for our Norwegian researchers, who share valuable knowledge and experience through the EU research cooperation. The government is putting heavy emphasis on knowledge cooperation with the EU through, inter alia: the participation in Horizon 2020, one of the world’s largest research and innovation programmes, and our policies are working. Never before have Norwegian researchers and innovation communities recovered so much money from the EU Framework Programme. Return fraction is now at 2,04 pst. So we've done our ambitions on 2 pst. One of the government's main priorities is to invest in research and development, and that is because it is a prerequisite for ensuring value creation and welfare for the future. Priority themes include strengthening our competitiveness and innovativeness, addressing the major societal challenges and developing excellence in professional environments. EU cooperation is therefore an important part of these priorities. Thus, through Norway’s EU strategy for research and innovation cooperation, we also have concrete plans for how the Norwegian environment will continue to be able to win more projects in the EU Framework Programme. Participation contributes to improving the quality of Norwegian research and innovation and at the same time contributes well to the emergence of Norwegian research environments and innovation environments in the international context. Although many Norwegian environments are successful in the EU, I believe that we must constantly reach out to ensure that more people reach out and get more for Norwegian participation. It is still important to target the instruments and concentrate research efforts to establish more international, competitive research environments capable of winning in the future. From the Research Barometer we see that it is the major actors, such as SINTEF, NTNU and the University of Oslo, who are at the top of the breakthrough in the EU, but also the smaller centre and institute, such as Simula and NILU, show solid EU muscles, and it shows that it is possible to succeed even if you are small. But it's about targeting the work, it's about high quality and the willingness to get through. In order for Norway to succeed even better in the EU, the Research Council has provided further incentives for Norwegian research and innovation environments. The means of project decommissioning, several new EU networks and measures to increase the capacity to apply are some of the important actions that we see as having produced results. We will continue to facilitate the success of Norwegian environments in the future, strengthen research cooperation with the EU and help to ensure our competitiveness and adaptability.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1227	I would like to say, for my part, that I think it is good that we have such a long and thorough debate on the EEA. I said well in my previous post that it hasn't always been like this. But I think we should all be aware that when this debate becomes like it is, it is because the political balance point in the accession to the EEA Agreement is starting to move. I notice it for my part very well in the environments I am in, in the trade movement and in the Workers' Party, and more and more people are asking these critical questions. Our commitment to this matter needs to be seen on the basis of that, and I think everyone should be aware of that – not least the government representatives should. So it was Special Representative Lundteg, my good colleague, who had a clear visit to me. I want to answer what Lundtigen says, saying that it is clear that for the Workers' Party there are significant dilemmas attached to the EEA Agreement. Of course it is -- everything else would be trying to talk away from it. I will not, because these are significant dilemmas. But with the social democratic support and the commitment and support for the EEA Agreement, it has been thoroughly explained, so I just refer to it and do not repeat it. But it's a significant dilemma because we see developments in Europe as we do now. Then there are two more points that I think should be raised in the debate before it goes to the end. One is that government representatives do not show any kind of recognition or understanding of how people out there feel the consequences on the labour market, but even more so that the NHO agrees with the trade movement. The NHO agrees with the trade union movement! I myself have met representatives of the construction industry, not the trade union movement, but the employers, who are asking for mercy and help to prevent the development they see within their own industry. At least the government should show respect for and have attention around it. The same applies in the transport sector. Listen to what the former Secretary-General of the Progress Party, who is now Secretary-General of the Transport Workers' Union, says. He says that this is no longer going on, while the government representatives in this room later like it's not being said, or that it's not a problem. They should at least come up before this debate is over to explain what they really think about these things. Finally, a problem in the population and in Norwegian working life is that the government is seen to reinforce the problems of working life at national level, thus destroying the legitimacy of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1241	It has been interesting to listen to the debate today. Even if he goes partly along familiar lines, one can, as the representative Kolberg also says, know a certain change in the position of the EEA Agreement and a certain shift of the front lines, if one can say so. That's interesting. There will also be an interesting year ahead – to see if more people will do as Section 5 of the Western Confederation, which is leading as a good example here, and to say clearly what one thinks about the development of the world of work and what the EEA agreement has resulted in. At some point, that recognition also has to go up for more people in this room. The centre party has claimed this for a long time. We have had several proposals, and our representative in the Labour and Social Committee has worked intensively to gain the understanding that, fortunately, is now spreading both in larger parts of the political environment and, not least, among the trade unions. In his speech, the Minister for Foreign Affairs claimed that no one from the Right has asked questions about the fact that a weak NATO means that a Norwegian EU membership has to be on the agenda again. Well, this summer, July 20, the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde went out in the Newspaper and said Norway has to review membership of the EU because we might no longer be able to trust NATO. As far as I know, Nordby Lunde is the great representative of the Right. She is also a leader in Europe's pipeline, but I am very surprised if the representative Nordby Lunde says something else as a leader in Europe's pipeline than she can say as a magnificent representative of the Right. I'm going to think it's kind of coincident. Then, of course, the Foreign Minister can decide whether Nordby Lunde is entirely on a collision course with his own party or not. In order to quote what the Foreign Minister said in his speech, all other EU countries are now working to build what must be characterised as a defence alliance and which go far beyond cooperation within R & D, procurement of defence equipment, investment, etc. It is interesting to know whether the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence will consider returning to Stortinget with a case of their own. What is happening within the EU? What happens in relation to NATO? The Secretary-General of NATO has also expressed some concern if we get here a duplication of, not least, systems that have to work, as we now saw in Trident Juncture. Command systems must be capable of functioning and not being duplicated, so that they can be complex. It's interesting to hear if you're considering coming back to Stortinget, so we can discuss this more closely in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1250	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik said that there are no other countries that have opted for the EEA Agreement with the EU. There's two important reasons for that. One is that to join the EEA you must either be an EFTA member or an EU member, and it is neither Canada nor South Korea. The second important reason is that only the three EFTA countries have 70–80 pst. of its trade with the EU. Canada doesn't have it, and it also says a little about the importance of our EEA agreement in relation to a free trade agreement. The representative Arne Nävra said we could not test out the trade agreement option, and also referred to Switzerland. Switzerland thus has 120 agreements with the EU. They are similar to the EEA Agreement in the sense that Switzerland must also implement EU legislation. What Switzerland doesn't have is an institutional superstructure, with ESA and the court, and that's why Switzerland doesn't move on. They want an agreement on the financial market; they want an agreement on the energy market. The EU does say well, but then we have to have an institutional superstructure. As far as the free trade deal option is concerned, I think it's just studying the Brexit process. For what the British propose is to remain in the internal market in goods. Why? Well, not least, the car industry is dependent on getting parts for its production across the border without friction, and you only get that if you are in the internal market. So they say that a trade agreement with Canada, which is the most recent and comprehensive EU agreement with an individual country, is not good enough for the United Kingdom. I believe that there should be a good enough indication that there is a difference between being part of the internal market, as we are through the EEA Agreement, and having a trade agreement where you are not part of the internal market. Trade today is increasingly about being part of value chains. For Norway is probably 40 pst. imports of inputs to exports, and the same will be the situation for industries in the United Kingdom. Therefore, there is great concern in the United Kingdom that they must start to act from the outside, with all the disadvantages involved, not least at the border, even though the British Minister has only now understood the importance of the border crossing on Dover–Calais.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1261	I would like to begin by thanking Mr Kolberg for a very interesting and enlightening speech, not only on the position of the Labour Party, but also on the labour market situation in Norway today. Then I have to clear up a misunderstanding that I have been guilty of for years. I have actually believed that it was because of access to cheap labour, the possibilities of the four freedoms, that the Right was for the EEA. And then I hear the representative Vetle Wang Soleim saying it's because of solidarity. Sorry, I'm taking it over – I've been misunderstood for years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1268	I have registered several posts that demand the understanding of the government of the challenges of transport in particular, and the concerns that some employees feel based on Norway's association with the EU through the EEA Agreement. I believe in myself that I am often clear, but in case I haven't been there before today, I'll try to be it now. From the speech chair earlier today, I said that the railway package IV that was once on the table was not good enough for us – the safety had to be taken care of, and our potential, for example. setting specific requirements for what is decisive to make the system work even in winter was crucial. That means we've focused on the argument being requested. As I was asked about the mobility package and how we look at the cabotage rules, I actually confirmed that Norway's starting point is clear: yes, we understand that it is not sufficiently perceived that the legislation we have is being complied with, and that it weakens fundamental rights for workers, and that, therefore, we have it as our main priority in the discussions that are currently taking place on the Road Alliance, where we are working with several other Western countries. And I said, in addition to that, the challenge is that within the cabotage code we have, we need to tighten up, not further increase access to cabotage. That someone is able to conclude that it shows that the government does not take over the feeling that Norwegian workers are left with, to me, about completely incomprehensible. Therefore, I would have appreciated the opposition that argues for the EEA Agreement, including the representative Kolberg, actually accept what we say from this tribunal. Because when we know what's being asked for, the answer from the opposition is the same. It does not bring the debate forward, it causes him to stand still, and it causes him to be partly led on the wrong premises. It may help to avoid if you want to, but then you also have to go right according to what the government says, and don't add up to the motives we don't have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1278	There's been a long and sometimes very good and interesting debate, but there's a couple of things that need to be answered. One is that the representative Lundtigen said that I would not say that the EEA affects employee rights and that it was not reliable. I think it's a basic rule that you have to listen to what's being said. I did not accept the premise of the Central Party that this was a yes/no question, but I said that this of course affects Norwegian employees' rights, but that the total is that it comes out positively. Furthermore, Martin Kolberg described that I should have said that I was very surprised that he had not understood. I didn't say that either. I said that I was surprised that he had not got it with him. It's something completely different. I think we're saying that the representative of Kolberg is starting to reproduce me correctly, and then I think I'm deciding for myself what kind of debate I want in Stortinget. To what I said in my reply to Kolberg about the liberalist direction in the European Union: I feel that it is not a liberalist turn of events in the European Union, and I think that is a political point of view. These are strict budgetary rules. We see that it is tightening up against violations of fundamental European rights and human rights; we see common solutions to common challenges, such as: climate and migration, and we see that European trade union movements support, for example: ELA, while the employer’s side is more sceptical. To the representative of Navarsete: I fully agree with the point that command structures or military structures should not be duplicated, and that has also been the whole starting point for the government's position in the matter. Any structure of the EU must be complementary to and not substitute for NATO or compete with NATO. And when the government starts to approach a decision or conclusion, of course, the Storting will also be consulted about it. Finally, Svein Roald Hansen: that is the way, in what is now ahead of us, that we have cooperated and cooperated very closely with both the United Kingdom and the European Union. It is precisely for the agreements to be concluded to reflect the agreement concluded between the United Kingdom and the EU. It is for as much as possible to be as equal as possible as it is today, and that is exactly why we have conducted those discussions and conversations in parallel. So to the question of Article 127 and the diplomatic conference: there is something we tried to do strongly, but it was not political will in the European Union or the United Kingdom, especially in the United Kingdom, to discuss this – precisely on the basis of the argument that they were going to leave the EEA anyway, and they did not want to complicate a difficult debate further. This is a matter of having a conference on possible changes to the EEA Agreement as a result of a withdrawal. As long as they were going all the way out of the EEA, their assessment was that they didn't want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1293	Thank you for a long and important debate. I would also like to stress that the government is concerned with the legitimacy of the EEA Agreement in the population. We want a lively and informed debate on EU and EEA issues. That's why we are two expert councils here today together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. That is why we are also involved in the other presentations held in the European Committee and elsewhere. I myself have participated in the European Committee on Employment for two days. That is why we are so committed to the debates both in Europe and in the Nordic countries – just to strengthen Norway’s position and to take care of Norwegian interests, not least in the field of working life. That is also why we are strongly committed to the employment policy discussed in the OECD and the ILO, and when Norway was invited to attend the G20 last year. It's in our interest to raise the standard internationally. However, as the debate has shown today, it is also important to stress that in Norway too we have been strengthened our interests and rights as a result of the EEA Agreement. Norwegian efforts to combat workwreck are important for Norway, but it is also important for Europe. We are now reviewing our working life strategy with the parties. The enforcement directive, which was implemented last year, makes it easier for us to enforce and combat labour-life crime. That's good for us, and that's good for Europe. But, of course, we need to take even more measures to limit and reduce the level of cross-border labour-life crime. A concrete example is that the Labour Inspectorate and the Directorate-General for Road Transport are now working together to address illegal pay and working conditions in the transport sector. This is good for Norway, but it is also good for foreign workers, many of whom today have poor pay and working conditions. So, in total, it is important that we also take into account the importance of the European Union for Norway and the importance of the EEA Agreement for Norwegian jobs. But EEA work is not a static work, it is a dynamic process in which we can choose to contribute or not contribute. The government therefore chooses to contribute to the strengthening of workers’ rights in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1306	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1311	I listened with interest to the post to Martin Kolberg, where he among other things. said that there are significant dilemmas related to the EEA. But then the question of the Workers' Party is: what is the Workers' Party's answer to the reality that one now experiences – when one is given a Supreme Court judgment that is set aside, when the government bends its neck, when the majority in the collective agreement bends its neck against the votes of the LO and undermines the rights of workers in Norway? Section 5 of the Joint Undertaking has concluded: Those who have defended the EEA Agreement with beaks and claws are now saying that we have to leave the EEA. And what, then, is the Labour Party's answer in that situation if you don't want to stand shoulder to shoulder with Roar Abrahamsen in Title 5 and the Center Party and say that now enough is enough in relation to the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1316	This is one of the many debates – I think – how many hear what they want to hear, and read what they want to read, a little independent of what they really understand is the intention. This summer I had a play in the newspaper, where it was in the intrusion: ‘The time has come for a new EU debate, says Heidi Nordby Lunde.’ This was written by the Newspaper, and I received support from researcher Svein Melby. Both in the newspaper and in a subsequent debate with the representative Liv Signe Navarsete, it became quite clear what the background was for it. The point was that the threat from Putin in the east, the trade war from Trump in the west, the migration challenges in the south and increasing populism in the north should just force a debate on our closest and most natural community of values. Once the EU has adopted sanctions against Russia, Norway has followed them, because together we are more strongly opposed to an aggressor who is doing the opposite of the normality of security policy, namely destabilising its own neighbourhoods. Russia's neighbourhoods are Norway's neighbourhoods. Security cooperation is not a zero-sum game, as the Central Party member of the Foreign and Defence Committee seems to believe. Strengthening EU security cooperation does not weaken NATO, on the contrary. Therefore, NATO and the EU already cooperate on more than 20 projects ranging from port, road and bridge dimensioning, logistics around the movement of persons and material internally to building barriers in the form of legislation, such as: a ban on the property of another country on its own territory. There is no desire from either side to duplicate these capacities, but to ensure the necessary flow and movement if necessary. Norway’s security begins in Europe. If the EU cracks in the joints, Norway is also more vulnerable. A safe, free and economically strong Europe not only prevents conflicts – as I said earlier – that once torn this continent in furrows, but also makes us, as nation states, stand closer together against external threats. European cooperation and the community strengthen NATO, but NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian security and defence policy. In other words, one does not exclude the other and should not be a substitute for it. This was said very clearly this summer, and I think it's a little amazing that it comes back to the Great Council when you know that it's actually wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1334	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1339	First, an error was created. I said that Geir Mo was in the Transport Workers' Union – he is not in Norway's Lastebileier-Federal. Now it became more precise and correct. I'm sorry about this. Finally, just this: I say there are significant dilemmas. I hear what the Minister of Labour says, and I hear what the Minister of Transport says – it's not that I don't hear it. But it's a confession that we might have to have in common, and it's: how can it be as we now experience – as in today's case – with all the trucks, where people live in their truck for weeks, make their food on primeus inside the truck and work for buttons and glossy images? Why did we get there? That question should be raised by the National Assembly of Norway, and we should not have a partisan knife on that. I would think it was okay if the Minister of Transport could respond before we finish.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1346	In addition to thanking for the debate, I would just like to inform you about one thing I forgot to say instead, which I had planned to say. It was that I have invited Minister of Climate and Environment Ola Elvestuen to the European Committee on 30 November to talk about these climate issues that were raised by others. We are both of the opinion that it is important for Stortinget to be both informed about and consulted about, but that is, of course, important for Norway. So the Minister for Climate and Environment is going to come to the European Committee on 30 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1351	The Labour Party believes in the EEA Agreement, and our way to Europe goes through it. Then, the representative Gülsvik here mentioned what happened in Section 5 of Bergen, who suddenly said no to the EEA Agreement and wanted him to cancel. There is one such thing in Norwegian tradesmen that there are different views on the EEA Agreement. The LO Congress has once said that they support the EEA Agreement. It's connected like me, for example. was in, had a co-consultant's national decision that we need the EEA Agreement because we know that our industry would be wiped out if we had not had that access to the internal market. What Abrahamsen and others in the Joint Union have reacted to is some social dumping that makes it difficult for them. If the EEA Agreement is to be troubling in Norway, among the Norwegian population, it is important that we address in the best possible way the social dumping impacts that we see. We have to use all the tools we have for social dumping, and if we can do it, the EEA Agreement has a good standing in the Norwegian people. But these are the stories that show that a person has bad conditions, and the reports from the Labour Inspectorate that show that a person is unable to cope well enough, which makes him discredited. The most important thing is that we have a good code and a good oversight. Then the agreement will have a good ‘standing’ also in the Norwegian people – which he has by the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1358	Liv Signe Navarsete has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1363	I have to make a little post for Heidi Nordby Lunde. All the tacks that Nordby Lunde's representative has framed are about NATO. So far, a broad Norwegian political everyday life and a broad political community have found themselves together by being in NATO. The new thing that Heidi Nordby Lunde called for in the big paper in the Newspaper was just using it together with community values and trade as a basis for the government to resume membership of the EU. Then you can talk away from it, but it will mean that you don't have the confidence that the NATO alliance can be the strength we need in a crisis situation. Heidi Nordby Lunde also said that she doubted that she could persuade her own party to take up the fight for Norwegian EU membership. "It would require a brave government, and I wish it were mine," said Nordby Lunde.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1371	First, thank you to Minister for Foreign Affairs Eriksen Soreide, who acknowledges that the EEA Agreement affects employee rights. There were quite a number of questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that she did not answer, which were the background to my statement. So the Foreign Minister says that one comes out positively. In the context that was said, I understand it so that the employees come out positively. It has to be seen in the context of what the Council of State Hauglie said, that our working rules are sometimes challenged. With the term ‘proposed’ I understand that there will be a downward pressure on pay and working conditions. Then we have the latest case of travel, diet and lodging in the workshop agreement, which is not any agreement, but a central part of the front. A new regulation came into force on 1 November, where remuneration is getting worse, among others. because the coverage of a reasonable number of return journeys has been removed. I would recommend that we have a further discussion about employee rights and employment policies linked to what is actually happening. The result we are now experiencing for travel, diet and lodging is the result of a work that has been going on over the years. As I said, both the Labour Party and the Right leaders and the LOs and NHO leaders have been involved in it, and we see the result. So to Martin Kolberg, who is timely asking how in the world one has come into the situation that one lives in a truck. That's a very good question. It is something that those who experience trucks everyday have said to us for a long time. We have cabotage rules that cannot be complied with, cannot be verified. It gives rise to unfair competition, and it weakens the recruitment of the driver’s profession, whether it be a truck or, in particular, a coach/car. Finally to Heidi Nordby Lunde: I agree that we have a lot of community of values between European states. At the same time, the Council of State pointed out quite clearly that in some EU countries the community of values is in confusion. According to the assessment of the Centre Party, this is the result of a system failure in the EU. One has adopted a euro without having a Ministry of Finance at the same time. One has introduced a modelless experiment, which creates social unrest because a number of people feel that they are not being cared for economically. When one does not get out of it, the turmoil will continue, and the confusion of the common values will continue. That's very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1384	To the cabotage rules and the mobility package, which is still in discussion, and where Norway is still working for the greatest possible penetration in Western European alliances – largely contrary to several Eastern European countries, which had benefited greatly from being allowed to transport goods to Western countries and with increasing their own level of well-being – the challenge remains: We have pay and work conditions in Norway that one should stick to. There is no one who looks at what we've seen today, and as we've seen many times before, about drivers who live weekly in the cars, and feels that there's work to be done, and that it's basically in line with the legislation. Therefore, Norway has had a clear position through close cooperation in the Road Alliance to achieve results when the EU addresses these issues, on these clear issues: We need to know when the trucks cross the Norwegian border, and when they leave Norway again, so that we can see if they comply with the restrictions laid down in the cabotage code or if they do not. It is crucial that those who run cabotage in Norway legally leave the country after the legal run is completed, and thus have a quarantine period on the outside of the border, possibly going all the way home to the country of origin, where the trip starts. All of these challenges we're working on in the daily games. We work together to see what impact it's possible to achieve, and we're going to have to compromise. The Norwegian starting point, however, is to protect Norwegian working conditions, Norwegian industrial interests and Norwegian workers while at the same time ensuring that the legislation we in any case decide to have common ground in Europe, is in fact possible to comply with and control. Therefore, it is quite clear that the government takes this seriously, that we are working for Norwegian positions to get through, and that we are looking for alliances to get it done. This means that those who operate in the transport industry and those who work in the transport industry can have as a common starting point that they meet with understanding in the government. We base ourselves on the recordings we have received, take them with us through the international impact we are now doing to ensure that the cabotage code is manageable, and thus that the mobility package is as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1407	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1412	As I said, NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy, and the EU should neither replace nor weaken it. On the contrary, I believe that European security cooperation contributes to strengthening NATO's capacity. Now I have clarified it in a debate with the representative of Navarsete in News of the Day 18, I have said it in articles in the Newspaper and now twice from the Spokesman of the Stortinge: it is neither NATO nor the EU itself that may help to revitalise a Norwegian debate on EU membership. That's the situation around that doing. That's my personal opinion. However, Navarsettes mix quotes from three different posts and interviews, and it is a bit indicative of the level of this debate and how the no-side of both the EU and the EEA feel the debate should be, in other words, a mix of different circumstances to promote its own position. I am not so much a fan of it, but: Yes, in addition, I am also too full of membership of the European Union, and I am proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1419	So the debate is on case No. 1 over – after 4 hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1435	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1444	I think I can assure the President that this will be a little shorter debate than the previous one. I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the case and the SV for promoting an important proposal. I have to admit that at first I am a little stunned when I read the title of the proposal and then read the text, but I am glad that the proposal is primarily about children who are excluded from the SFO due to lack of parental pay, and not primarily a discussion about the law of the school leisure system, or the activity school, as it is also called. SFO and AKS are an important offer for the youngest children. It gives social community, and it creates well-being. It also has a significant impact on the learning and development of both language and social skills. This is precisely why the SFO is enshrined in the Training Act – all municipalities are required to have an offer of SFO. I agree with the SV proposal providers that it is unfortunate when children are excluded because of the financial situation of their parents. In the proposal, one indicates that in Bergen there were 153 children who lost their place in the SFO in 2014 because of the financial situation of their parents. It's stigmatizing for the children, and I think there's better ways to deal with this than to punish the children. That's the challenge that now has to be solved. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State in its reply to the Storting is not rejecting the issue, and I think it is good that the majority of the Committee now gives the Council of State a clear task to solve this challenge in connection with the work started with a big message on early action, which has been announced to the Stortinget in autumn 2019. I look forward to hearing from the Council of State here in the Chamber today how he looks at the task he gets from Stortinget later today. I am basically optimistic that the problem raised by the proposal today will be solved and put to a good end. As usual, the Labour Party is a little bit more impatient, and we are, together with the Centre Party and SV, today on a proposal where a government asks to clarify to the municipalities that a person should punish a non-parent payment in a regular way, not by depriving their children of their place in the SFO. I believe that this proposal will help many now, pending the arrival of the big message, and I hope that the proposal will have a majority – it should have a majority – in the Chamber today. With that, I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1461	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1466	I would like to begin by thanking the members of the Committee for the cooperation in this matter and for having reached a broad consensus that lawmaking is not the right instrument in this matter, but rather that action is taken to facilitate better for those families who, for various reasons, do not have sufficient finances to send their children to a school leisure or activity leisure service. The right-hand side shares the concern that children may be excluded from the SFO due to a lack of parental pay, and we agree that there must be a clear objective that no students will be excluded from the SFO because of their parents' finances. It is currently the municipality that lays down the statutes of the public SFO and the statutes must include regulation of the parental payment and termination of the place. In this context, I would like to point out that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left in the Government Platform have put in place a measure to introduce schemes with reduced parental pay and free half-day seats in the SFO, similar to the schemes in the kindergarten, in order for children of low-income parents to receive the support they need. This will be a targeted and more precise action, addressing the underlying issues in the case. Legislation does not solve the reasons why the parental payment is missing, and everything cannot be covered in detail by law. Therefore, there is little doubt that municipalities, together with measures aimed at low-income families, can make payments towards parents who do not go beyond their children. There will be actions with a good social profile, while at the same time caring for the best of the children. The most important thing must be to strengthen the quality and content of the SFO, which, together with the schools, helps to provide our young people with a full range of services. The main task of the school is to develop the knowledge, skills and understanding of students and the ability to apply their skills. The school shall both train and form, and it shall be a safe arena for mastering. All students shall have basic skills in reading, calculating, expressing themselves orally and in writing through school and using digital tools. An inclusive and safe school environment requires systematic effort. The school has to build a layer around the student. Early effort is essential and special educational resources must be used as early as possible in the training process. In this context, the provision of school leisure time should help to build up and facilitate learning through play and support. In the follow-up to the Jeløya platform, the government will therefore among other things. enhance the quality of SFOs and ACSs by drawing up a national template for local framework plans. The government is carrying out an evaluation of the school leisure scheme, which is expected to be completed by the end of the year. The evaluation will be followed up in the EEAA on early and inclusive communities in kindergarten and school. I look forward to the announced big message, which will address a number of issues in the case and help to build on a comprehensive policy, for the sake of children's growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1483	There is a broad consensus that the school leisure system is an important part of a comprehensive policy for education, children and families, and that the content of the SFO is essential for the SFO not to become a mere storage place for the young, but to add something to children’s development and mastering. It is also the party of progress. It is important to ensure a good SFO or AKS offer to children in primary school. It is the quality of the offer that is the key for children to have the good and to experience meaningful activities, but the Progress Party believes that legalising the right to SFO space is not the right way to go. The SFO shall be a voluntary offer. The use of SFOs has increased considerably since its introduction. In the years of the SFO, we have also seen that attention to quality in school, testing and measurement and to the level of knowledge of Norwegian students compared to students in other countries has become much greater. We believe this in the Progress Party is positive, and the new reality should also be reflected in the SFO offer. The SFO should be used for both learning and leisure activities. Therefore, rather than legislating the right to SFO offers, the Progress Party will give priority to content and quality. The diversity in Norway is great. Just the local and regional disparities and the fact that people are different are some of the reasons that municipalities are responsible for the funding and structure of — and are the school owners of — most primary schools. They have a great deal of freedom to determine the content and extent of everyday school life in the current legislation, and the same applies to the SFO and AKS systems – different locations, different needs. National guidelines for content have been very little, and therefore there is also a variation between municipalities in the offers given to students, and there are differences in the price and use of SFOs. We believe that this is natural in the Progress Party. A national provision on the right to SFO is considered to be in breach of municipal self-determination. Better arrangements should be put in place for low-income families instead of legislating for the right to SFO space. Direct support for low-income families is more precise in order to achieve the objectives of the proposal than to legislate a right to the SFO. Here I would like to refer to the JELUEA declaration, where it appears that the government will also introduce schemes with reduced parental pay and free half-day seats in the SFO, similar to the scheme in kindergarten for children of low-income parents. In extending it, the Progress Party is pleased that the majority of the Committee has grouped on the following proposals: ‘The government is asking, as part of its work on the announced call for proposals for early and inclusive communities in kindergarten and school, to consider appropriate measures to avoid the exclusion of pupils from the SFO due to the economy of their parents.’ This we believe will take care of children who need it, better than legalizing the right to SFO space.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1503	The central party agrees that the school leisure system is an important arena for children in Norway. Participation in the SFO of the youngest children provides an important social community for the development of, among others: social skills. Nevertheless, it is important that this is a voluntary offer with room for municipalities to have the freedom to organise and facilitate according to local needs. The Training Act obliges municipalities to have an SFO offer for students from 1st to 4th stages and for students with special needs from 1st to 7th stages, but the law does not give students the right to place. The law points out that the content should be aimed at play, cultural and leisure activities, based on the individual child’s assumptions. This is valuable. We share the concern that children are being excluded from the SFO due to a lack of parental payment. We're also concerned that we don't know how many things are going on, and what the consequences are for them. It is currently the municipality that lays down the statutes of the public SFO and the statutes must include regulation of the parental payment and dismissal of the place. The local space for action and the local impact and development of the SFO are the starting point for improving this offer. Then people have to use the influence they have locally. The central party does not consider the lawmaking of the court to be the right action. We ask the government to consider appropriate measures to avoid students being excluded from the SFO because of their parents’ finances. This must be part of the work on the new growth message coming in autumn 2019 on early intervention and inclusive community in kindergarten and school. We will use funds to improve the quality of the current SFO offer and the ability of municipalities to prepare social measures for the children and families concerned. Rather than legislating the right to SFO space, better arrangements should be put in place for low-income families. The centre party believes that significant payment defaults are required through ordinary forms of debt recovery, as in the case of other breaches of contract, and we propose this. Furthermore, we will ask the government to investigate the introduction of free core time into the school leisure scheme for low-income families. Children and young people – and their families, with different social and economic backgrounds – must all be included in the new news of ageing, for which we have great expectations. I would like to mention proposal No. 2 from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1524	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand then brought up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1529	In 2014, 180 children in Bergen lost their place in kindergarten or SFO in response to the lack of parental payment. The same line was practiced in several Norwegian municipalities. Among those who responded to this practice was the Children's Ombudsman and the Parent's Committee for Primary School, because they thought that some of the children who needed the most were the ones who were hit. Since then, the Education Directorate has stated that municipalities cannot regulate themselves away from the Kinderhagen Act § 12 a, which gives the children the legal right to a kindergarten place in the municipality in which they live. The Socialist Left believes it is very unfortunate that children in school leave do not have the same protection. In the example from Bergen, there were 27 children who lost their place in the kindergarten, while 153 children were excluded from the SFO. There are no national statistics on the number of children who have lost their place in the school leisure scheme due to lack of parental benefit, but after consultation with five urban municipalities, the figures show that for the school year 2016/2017, a total of 219 children were affected by such a practice. Behind these figures there are real, living children who have it difficult, mainly because their parents' financial situation is likely to characterize the whole family life, and then the child himself is indirectly held responsible and punished by being thrown out of the SFO. Perhaps this is the only provision of a social common arena that this child has the opportunity to offer. Let me tell you about a child who hides behind such a statistic, by reading the letter from a dubious grandmother: "My son ran his own company. Because of unforeseen events, their economy really went wrong. What happened then is just completely inhuman for a little six-year-old. He went along with the rest of the class of SFO as usual. There he was told that he was not allowed to be, and they called the mother and said that she had to come to pick him up, as he had lost his seat due to a lack of payment. My grandson was bullied because he was thrown out of the SFO. My daughter-in-law is chronically ill, and when she's home, it's because she's seriously ill, and not because she's going to take care of a six-year-old after school and the rest of the evening. When he is not at the SFO, he misses the agreement to be with other children in the leisure after the SFO. He can't be with anyone at home, and he can't bring anyone home after school either." We in this hall have the opportunity to help this boy and the other kids who experience the same thing. Fortunately, a Joint Education and Research Committee shares SV's concern for these children, as we have heard here today. They also agreed on the objective that no students should be excluded by the SFO because of their parents' finances. Unfortunately, these words are no more valuable than the paper they're written on. Instead of finding constructive solutions here and now, they push the whole issue ahead and will wait for the department to finish writing a big message. It's heartwarming to know that this and now there are children who are afraid until the school day is over, because they have to go home alone. I've been working at the AKS here in Oslo, and I've seen these kids. What they're missing is the social community. Maybe they're also missing out on homework. Waiting for this big message doesn't help them. Then I have also noticed that there are many here who have hung themselves up in this with law enforcement as a problem issue. I think this is enough of an excuse to avoid doing anything faster, because we have no record in SV attached to our proposal to legislate the law that way. We've invited you to find other, possibly better, solutions, assuming these are implemented quickly. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1548	The representative Olivia Corso Salles has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1553	According to the Training Act, all municipalities are required to have an offer of SFO – or AKS, as it is called here in Oslo – but there is relatively great freedom in how municipalities organise this offer, what the offer contains, and what you have to pay to participate, and the law, as many have said, does not provide any individual right for students. SFO and AKS have become an increasingly important area of inclusion, socialisation, play and learning for the youngest children in school in recent years. Many sites have been dedicated to improving the quality of supply, and more measures have also been implemented to make the supply more accessible to more people, including those in need. through free part-time testing in Drammen, Oslo, Stavanger and Trondheim and the measures taken by municipalities themselves to reduce parental pay, including: Here in Oslo. We believe this in the Left is a very positive development. This means that all children have some meaning in filling hours from school, until their parents come home from work. At the same time, there is no doubt that this offer may mean the most to those children who do not have so many activities elsewhere in their spare time. In many places, you will be offered activities that cost a lot to participate in, and you will have time to play, learn and develop friendships in an arena that is accessible to everyone. It is quite clear from both the comments and the proposals in this case and the debate here today that there is a broad consensus between all parties that no student should be excluded because of the parent's economy. Unfortunately, something is happening today. However, the majority do not agree with the proposers that legalising the right to place in the SFO is necessarily the right thing to do. We believe it is more accurate to bet on schemes aimed at low-income families than to legislate a right to SFO. A law enforcement is not a quick and easy solution. It is also not free, and it does not address what is at the heart of the problem, namely families with poor advice. We know that economics is the main reason why many people don't use SFO/AKS, and then we have to find solutions that remove that obstacle for the families that are involved. It has proved to be very effective to get more children from low-income families into kindergartens, and we are very happy that we got a formulation in the Jeløia statement that we now need to have similar arrangements in the SFO and AKS. In recent years, more and more children have been offered free core time in kindergartens corresponding to half a day’s space. We started with the four- and five-year-olds, we extended to the three-year-olds, and with the state budget for 2019, an additional 11,000 children will be included in the scheme by including the two-year-olds. With this, there are 46,500 children who will be offered half-day work in kindergarten in 2019. It is perhaps the most important single measure that has been implemented in recent years to give all children equal opportunities, regardless of background. We are also concerned about the quality of the content, which several have drawn up before me in the debate. We want to give priority to content and quality rather than legalizing the right to space. At the same time, we would like to stress that SFO/AKS is a voluntary offer, and that municipalities should have great freedom in how they want to design it. When I have traveled around school visits in the fall, I have been visited by the SFO in some places, and I have been impressed by the offer given to the kids many times. Through dedicated and competent employees and through cooperation with local teams and associations, the cultural school and other important actors, there are many municipalities and many single schools that have succeeded in making a very good offer that everyone wants to participate in, and that all benefit from – like the Huseby school in Trondheim, which is one of the schools that has received support for free SFO through the state, and which has so-called Cultural Tuesday, where students meet different cultural school offerings in school time. In addition to this being a very good offer in itself, the school has gone from being the school in Trondheim, which has fewer students in the cultural school, to becoming the school with the most. It is a good sign that SFO can work socially and make activities that have previously been available to only a few, accessible to all. The better the offer in the SFO/AKS, the more important it is that we actually make sure that it becomes available to everyone, and that the parental payment is not an obstacle to anyone staying outside. It is therefore important that we set up reduced parental payment schemes as soon as possible, as the government has promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1573	For the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure high quality in the educational cycle. From one day into the kindergarten, until one leaves the school, a lot of hours is spent on these arenas. We in the Christian People's Party have worked so that there will be more adults in the kindergarten and more teachers in the school. It's about seeing each one. For the Christian People's Party, this is also about the fact that when you fill kindergarten and school with quality, you have to think the same thing both for the AKS and for the SFO. The most important task we have as a society is to ensure that there are safe and healthy conditions for children and young people. As politicians, it's actually our responsibility when the kids spend so much time in these institutions. The Christian People’s Party supports proposers in the fact that the school - leisure system is an important arena for young people in Norway. Today, municipalities are required to comply with the training law on an offer with an SFO for elephants from 1 to 4. class and for elephants with specific needs in 1–7. class. We have been working for a long time to get a quality lift for SFO. Young people should feel good and it should be felt useful to participate in that activity. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for a quality reform in the SFO offer. It is also important to stress that the municipalities should provide the best possible supply in each municipality. SFO is a voluntary offer, and it is important that parents are confident that the young are viewed well throughout that supply. The Christian People's Party does not support the proposers in the fact that legislating the right to an SFO offer would be strengthening the thinking I have now set out. We think it's better to take other steps to raise the quality of the SFO than to change the law. The size has agreed to an evaluation of the SFO supply. The evaluation is under way and will be an important tool to address some of the challenges faced by the school leisure system today. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to further working on this when the staging message of early efforts and inclusive fellowship in kindergarten and school is leading. The Christian People's Party is committed to facilitating a good transition between kindergarten and school, and it also applies between kindergarten and SFO/activity school. The Christian People's Party has proposed an evaluation of the six-year reform because we know that the transition between school and kindergarten can be difficult for many young people – because the game is missing. We're not forgetting this. We'll also remember that when the kids start in the SFO in the morning, that's where they come first and use a lot of their day. The SFO must have a meaningful content for the individual, and it is important that young people are supervised and cared for. At the same time, we know that free play, the fact that kids get to do activities on their own initiative, is important for both learning and building at school and in the SFO. Young people need to have plenty of time to play. The crop-based and schematic activities must be capable of being selected in addition to the free game when it is opened. It's just necessary to realize that even the game is an important part of learning social skills. The Christian People's Party shares the concern of the proposers that not all kids get to participate in the same line. However, we do not support the legislative proposal, that it is the right way to meet that challenge. The economy of parents must not be an obstacle to children's ability to exploit the SFO offer. We want to avoid young people being excluded from the SFO because of economics, and put ourselves behind the recommendation of a majority in the committee, asking the government to assess the relevant measures and ensure that everyone can participate, regardless of the economy of parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1592	Unfortunately, the differences between those who have the most, and the rest, continue to increase in Norway, and in the face of the increasing differences, just universal welfare schemes are among the most important instruments we have. It's very unfair that some children lose the social community they've had, because their parents can't pay for them. Red is pleased that this matter comes up in Stortinget. There is one thing that our local politician in Bergen has been working on for a long time, together with others in Bergen City Council. There they can report that the number of children growing up in poverty in Bergen has increased by over 35pst. in the last 10 years, and that 2015 figures showed that 268 children lost their place in the SFO due to outstanding payment. This means that children in poor families are punished because their parents have poor advice. We don't want it like that in Norway. We know that the city council in Bergen converted parts of the decision because it was contrary to the statutory right to children's playground. So the babysitters were granted their rights, but the point is that the children in the SFO do not have an equivalent fuse, and they do not have a follow-up corresponding to the kindergarten child's having. It is quite right, in our view, that you should not be able to take a three-year-old place in the nursery because of the parents' payment default. Instead, the municipality and the nursery owner must implement the arrangements that otherwise apply in our society when someone does not pay their bills, and thus, in our view, do not punish the children for this. The same principle should apply to SFO, as we see it. We've noticed that the right is writing pretty reasonable things about the SFO on its websites. Right writes that they want to have ‘a high-quality school leisure scheme focusing on games, cultural and leisure activities and learning support activities such as homework’. The question is whether children in poor-advised families should not benefit from a quality SFO scheme, as described on the right. If they are serious about the so far beautiful words about the SFO that they write on their website, the government should stop pushing responsibility away and rather agree to support the proposals, which can actually solve the problem and ensure that no child loses his or her place in the SFO because his or her parents have poor advice. Red will vote in favour of the minority proposals in the case, and then we will vote in favour of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1603	The school leisure system, together with the school, is an important common arena for children for friendship, for play and for learning. The SFO should be something other than school. There shall be a safe and good place for children beyond school, care and supervision, facilitate play, cultural and leisure activities and be tailored to the needs of children. Too many families, too, SFO is crucial to make the everyday jigsaw game go up. The SFO offer is valuable for children, parents and society. All municipalities have an offer of school leisure arrangements, and in 2017 more than 160,000 students went to SFO. This is 62 pst. by students from 1 to 4. steps, and the proportion has increased steadily over the last 10 years. Most students use the full-day offer, and the youngest students use the SFO most. At the first step, four out of five students go to the SFO. Since I am not only Minister of Knowledge, but also Minister of Integration, I am also concerned about the role that SFO can play for both the children and the integration of parents. Going to the SFO gives children friendships, social training and language development that other offers are difficult to match. The fact that children have an offer before school in the morning and in the afternoon may also be a prerequisite for parents to take part in the work or other activities that promote their integration. It's voluntary to go to the SFO. I think it should continue to be. There may be several reasons why a family chooses not to use the SFO offer. However, economics should not be one of the causes. I think it has to be a clear objective that no students are excluded from the SFO because of their parents' finances. Such a practice could hit some of the children who might need the SFO most. Therefore, the government has set itself the objective of introducing parental-reduced schemes and free half-day work in the SFO for children of low-income parents. Several municipalities already have schemes with reduced parental pay. Free half-day or part-time is also a reality several places. And, among others, in Oslo, Drammen, Stavanger and Trondheim, many more children are using the SFO offer. It's a pleasure. For it should not be the case that the family's finances are to be recorded when parents decide whether to join the SFO. This applies when they look at their economy as a whole, but also in more acute and unforeseen payment problems. I would therefore ask all municipalities to be very reluctant to cancel a child's place in the SFO if the bill is not paid. There are other ways to charge the payment than to let the children pay the price and had to be separated from friends and kept out of the SFO offer. Today, municipalities have a clear and statutory obligation to offer SFO to students between 1 and 4. Steps up to the 7th stage for students with special needs. The SV proposers call for the provision of an individual right to entry into the school leisure system in addition. On the other hand, the government believes that schemes with reduced parental pay and free half-day seats in the SFO are far more effective measures than legalising the rights of the SFO. In our view, there's little point in having a right if you can't afford to use it. The SFO is required to offer, but there are very few requirements for the content of the SFO. Today, there is no requirement for the competence of employees nor for the content of the activity offer. The value of the SFO as the children's arena depends on the safe place to be, with good and safe adults, and on the fact that the children receive an activity offer that helps them to develop and find community. The government is busy with both the content and the access to SFO. The SFO offer varies around the country, and in order to develop good measures, we need to know more about how the SFO works and what the offer includes around the country. That is why we are now carrying out a major evaluation, which we will follow up in the paper on early interventions and inclusive communities next autumn. I believe it is natural to await the results of this evaluation before making major changes to school leisure provision and considering targeted measures to improve access to SFOs for low-income families. I support the representatives' intention that children and families who want to do so should be able to use the SFO offer in the municipality. I think the wisest way to achieve this is first to get more facts about how the SFO system works today, who is outside the offer, and how we can adapt the scheme so that the SFO becomes a good quality offer where everyone has the opportunity to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1628	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1633	It's good to hear that we share the concern and commitment of the SFO. There may be cause for concern if this applies to as many children as the proposers draw a picture. We have a lot of good arrangements to follow up families that are in a difficult economic situation, but it's obvious that more people are falling through here, and the kids are the ones who are being hit. How does the Council of State see that the children and children's families in the situation where the SFO site is decommissioned without consent should be able to be cared for by the municipalities? What does the Council of State think municipalities can do, and how are they going to do so in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1638	Let me also express joy over the broad engagement that is for SFO among the games. It promises well for the important work we're going to do. I believe it is important that we do not over-react to state detail management in this area, but that we leave a good room for local policy, so that the SFO offer can also be adapted to local conditions. When it comes to the number that the representatives of the SV address, I can't do that. But we know that this can be a problem, and therefore I stressed in my post that the municipality can recover funds in ways other than to deprive the children of the important and valuable offer they have in the SFO. I will ask the municipalities – I said that too – to find other ways and not to hit the children and the time they have in the SFO, where they can both develop and have friends.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1645	I am also pleased that the other parties and the council share the concern, but I am a little stated when everyone hangs in this law, because I made it very clear in my post that SV does not put any prestige in that proposal as it is. We are committed to the intention and to its observance. We've invited you to find other, possibly better, solutions, assuming these are implemented quickly. What worries me is that we should wait for this big message. I wonder if it is possible for the Council of State to look at anything other than the requests he made now, which are fine, which ensures that none of these children are sitting at home until this big message comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1650	Now you don't have to wait. It is entirely possible for SV and other parties to take it up in the municipalities where this is a reality. We're going to discuss these issues, not least how we can create more opportunities for the low-income families, in the notified message. But if you were to think of the proposal that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are promoting today, then my answer to that is that it would require a change in the law if you were to get it done. That's why I saw clearly from Stortinget's pulpit asking the municipalities to find other solutions. I would also like to pay tribute to SV to take it up in Stortinget, because there will be a debate here in Stortinget, I also hope that the municipalities will help them to think through the problem again and look for other solutions than to take away from the children the valuable place they have in the SFO.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1655	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1673	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1689	This issue is about making legal changes easier in order to provide continued access to confidentiality-related information in the public register. The background is the changes to the People's Registry Act, which entered into force on 1 October 2017, which requires the law to provide confidentiality-related information to the public register. The transitional period of one year during which the rules under previous law have been in force is now over and changes are necessary. In concrete terms, it is proposed to provide for the transparency of the Law on Legal Aid, the Child Abduction Act, the Act on Victims of Violence, the Act on Arbitration and the Law on Conflicts, as well as the proposal for the creation of some incubators in the Law. The purpose of the proposals contained in this proposal is to provide the necessary legal support to the civil law administration of the State, the County State, the Office for the Compensation of Victims, the Agency for the Protection of Persons, the Secretariat of the Councils of Conflict, the Councils of Conflict and the Central Authority for Child Abduction Cases under the Hague Convention in 1980, in order to enable these establishments to carry out their statutory tasks. I do not want to go into the individual legislative change, but I am pleased to stress once again that these changes to the law are primarily about businesses that have as their primary task the task of solving difficult and important tasks in society, such as legal assistance, child abduction, compensation for victims of violence, defence and conflict resolution in the conflict council, having access to information related to confidentiality in order to solve the tasks they are assigned to. An overall committee is behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1702	I am pleased that an overall Committee on Justice endorses the proposals contained in the proposal. The amendments to the Law on Legal Aid, the Child Abduction Act, the Act on Victim Compensation, the Law on Vergemållsgesetz and the Law on Contradiction will provide the establishments concerned with access to information related to confidentiality, which is necessary for carrying out important and statutory tasks. Activities also have such access today, but this is based on decisions rather than laws. The legislative proposals will comply with the public register law’s requirements on the basis of specific legislation. The proposals do not go beyond what is necessary. All establishments that continue to have access have been subject to the obligation of professional secrecy, experience and procedures for the processing of sensitive information. The bill also contains proposals for the creation of some incubators in the rest of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1711	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1730	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1746	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1762	We are promoting a loose proposal on the matter: The legislative act is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1769	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1787	We are promoting a loose proposal on the matter: The legislative act is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1794	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1812	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1824	We're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1833	The President proposed that the statement on important EU and EEA matters, held by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Stortinget on 8 November 2018, be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1843	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Center Party proposal No 3, from Olivia Corso Salles on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals for changes to the law that bring children between 1 and 4. steps and 1 to 7. Steps for children with special needs a statutory right to a place in the school leisure system.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1872	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate the introduction of free core time into the school leisure scheme for low-income families.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1889	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the municipalities to clarify that the default of parental benefit can only be sanctioned by ordinary forms of debt recovery, and not by depriving a child of a place in the school leisure system.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1976	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e1986	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e2180	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e2190	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e2215	Case No. 6 applies to the second processing of legal acts and to legislative acts 1. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e2225	Case No. 7 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns Law Decision 2. In the course of the debate, Mr Moxnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: The legislative decision should be adopted.’.» The President assumes that the other parties will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e2248	The rule of law 2 has thus been rejected, and the Bill of the Stortinge has been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e2256	Case No. 8 is the second time that the law is dealt with and applies to the third time. In the course of the debate, Mr Moxnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: The legislative decision should be adopted.’.» The President assumes that the other parties will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e2279	The rule of law 3 has thus been rejected, and the Bill of the Stortinge has been approved at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e2287	Case No. 9 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns Law Decision 4. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-13.ana.ud530e2329	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
