ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e94	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Oslo: Mats A. Kirkebirkeland For South-Trundellag County: Kristian Torve Two permit applications are available: by the Central Party Group on sick leave for the representative of Mr Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen from 8 May onwards and until further notice by the Workers’ Group on the leave of the representative Anniken Huitfeldt on Tuesday 8 May due to tasks on the day of release on Akershu’s fastening. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Mani Hussaini For Telemark County: Olav Urbø
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e145	Mani Hussaini and Olav Urbø are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e163	I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their constructive and good cooperation. The matter we are dealing with is a constitutional proposal by Martin Kolberg, Jette F. Christensen, Gunvor Eldegard, Bård Vegar Solhjell, Karin Andersen and Per Olaf Lundtegen on the decision of the Basic Law on temporal bookkeeping. A little flashback is necessary. The majority had a thorough treatment of linguistic updates of the Constitution in spring 2014. This was the case at the time when two competing proposals on the Basic Law were made on bookkeeping. It was the Basic Law Committee – the Graver selection – version and Finn-Erik Vinje’s version. In addition, there was a proposal from the Graver Committee to get the Constitution in new Norwegian. When the Stortinget examined the Constitutional Cases on 6 May 2014, Stortinget took the following decision: 1st@item: inlistbox The majority adopted a new version of the Constitution, based on the proposal of the Constitutional Commission or the Graver Committee. 2nd@item: inlistbox The language of the Basic Law was modernised. The Storting adopted a book measure version of the Basic Law based on the Finn-Erik Vinje proposal. The Constitution had not been up-to-date since 1903 when the Stortinget adopted a modernisation of the language in 2014. Well over 100 years after the last update, it was time for a gentle linguistic facial lift at the modum 1903. In the version adopted, Vinje’s version, the text of the constitution still appears in a slightly conservative, dignified or solemn language form. But today's readers have been taken into account by removing some of the age marks from the 1800s that survived the revision in 1903. The text of the Constitution has been brought closer up to our time by making changes in characterization, ortography, conjugations and vocabulary. The particular solemn expression of the text has been preserved, and many glosses that are not part of the daily vocabulary have been preserved. The Constitution is a national document of highest rank because of its age and dignity. The Constitution has a symbolic value and is a kind of national klenodium, which is linked to the fact that the Constitution is so closely related to 1814 and Norway’s autonomy. There has not been a strong wish from those who apply the law that linguistic changes to the Constitution must now be made. Although there is some difference in the structure of paragraphs and paragraphs and certain linguistic differences in the two types of objectives adopted and in force, there are no interpretative problems for those applying the Basic Law in respect of either language or version. The book target version of the Graver Committee was voted down when the Stortinget dealt with the draft constitutions in 2014. The book target version of Vinje was adopted by overwhelming majority, with 165 votes. Only four voted against. I experience that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are trying to get a rematch on the decision that was made in 2014. I think we should respect the overwhelming majority and the decision that the Stortinget made in the spring of 2014. The Constitution should not be changed in time and in time. It is a clenodium and should be treated with caution and respect. As I said, it took over 100 years before major linguistic changes were made to the Constitution, following the changes made in 1903. Of course, some linguistic corrections and adaptations should be made in the two language versions, so that they are as similar as possible, as we do today. The Committee is unanimous in changing the wording ‘to borrow from the State’s credit’ in the new Norwegian version of the Basic Law § 75 to ‘to open loans on the State’s credit’, which is contained in the book target version. Then the meaning content is going to be the same in the two target versions. In conclusion, I think there is a reason to point out that it is only four years since we adopted the book measure version of the Constitution that we have today. It may not take 100 years to get to the next thorough review and update, but we should have respect for the fact that the Constitution is a national clopidogrel that should not change in time and time. On this basis, the members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party do not support the draft constitution proposed by the representatives of Martin Kolberg, Jette F. Christensen, Gunvor Eldegard, Bård Vegar Solhjell, Karin Andersen and Per Olaf Lundtegen for the adoption of the Basic Law on temporal bookkeeping.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e199	On behalf of what appears to be the majority of the vote, the recommendation is that the proposal for Section 75 option 2 be accepted. Now it is doubtful whether there is a majority in the Chamber – at least it is certainly not a constitutional majority – for that recommendation. Of the basic legislative proposals we are dealing with today, what disappoints me most is that there is now a golden opportunity to ensure that the book measure version and the new Norse version are based on the same sample survey from the Constitutional Commission, and that in this way we could achieve harmony between the two texts. One of our proposers will go further into the depth of that matter, but I find it unfortunate that there is a partial difference in structure and not a complete parallel between the two proposals. We would have received that if today's proposal had received a constitutional majority. This applies to partially textual things, and it applies to the partial construction of paragraphs. Another excellent case rapporteur says that we should not change the Constitution in time and time. I agree. But now I think it's time to put in place the last element in the thorough review of the Constitution that we had in connection with the Constitutional Jubilee – to put in place the whole thing that it will be, that there will be a better connection, if we bring the book version into line with the current new Norse version. With that background there is a lost opportunity, in my opinion, to have the constitutional work done four years ago. When the rapporteur says that we should respect previous decisions, yes, we should, but now it is our responsibility to consider the draft constitutions that exist. We have to make that assessment on our own basis, and the majority's position on the committee is therefore that the present draft constitution is accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e210	The matter we now have to deal with is a matter for which we had a great deal of commitment in the previous magnification period. The large majority who then took the decision on which this discussion was based was a majority expressed on the basis of the compromise reached in the Committee at that time. From the point of view of the rapporteur to invoke the large majority, it is necessary to explain the background I am now describing. There was a consensus that the Right, which was against a long-term version, would vote for it, but then we voted for Hans Petter Graver's variant of the book. I say this on the basis of what the rapporteur says, because it is important to clarify what was the background of the large majority at the previous reading. What is very important in this case – I believe it is very important – is to get a time-limited book measure in the Constitution. It's amazing, I think, that the Right once again opposes the establishment of a temporal language in our constitution. It surprises me a lot. I understood the political aspect related to the treatment at the previous crossroads, namely that the Right – and also the Workers' Party, in fact – had engaged Finn-Erik Vinje to create an alternative language theme at the time, and that it was difficult for political reasons to break out of the great investigation he had done through the presidency. That was understandable, and that is why this compromise was reached. But the fact that you are now from the Right – and also from the Advancement Party, for that matter – is holding on to the fact that we are not going to keep the timely book measure when we have a timely novelty, I think it is very strange. Of course, this also applies to the Christian People's Party. It is a very long and nine-time work that lies behind this constitution that is now under consideration. A short version is that the Presidentship of the Stortinge appointed the Constitutional Commission in its time, led – as was said here by the President-in-Office – by Hans Petter Graver, who designed a complete proposal for an up-to-date text version of the Basic Law, with one text of the book and one new text, a modern version of both the forms we use in Norway today. At the same time, a proposal was presented based on Finn-Erik Vinje's proposal for a modern bookkeeping edition. The result of the treatment on 6 May 2014 was as I have now described. I won't repeat that. As I said, one of the consequences is that the current constitution consists of two texts that have not been harmonised. There are linguistic differences, and I'm saying here unnecessary linguistic differences. There are differences in the structure of paragraphs and paragraphs, and several of the provisions of Chapter E on human rights are more timely than the other provisions. We, i.e. the proposers, promote a clean-up in Section 75(b) where the «to raise a loan» is proposed to be replaced by «to open a loan», as the case-law rapporteur said, so that there should be no doubt about the content of the opinion. That's a consensus. This is the background to this proposal, which is therefore supported by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV of the current Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. But we're not getting it right either. I do not know whether to be surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party are still conservative and antimodern. I guess I'm not surprised at that. I am more surprised – and I have already been involved – that the Christian People's Party does not take the step fully and supports a modern edition of books. It surprises me a lot because in many ways it's a clonodium as it now exists. Yes, the Constitution, as it was said, is a Clenodium. But it is, above all, a basic political document that will lead the development of society. It shall provide protection to the individual from the State and from any private interests. The Constitution must be respected by politicians and by the courts. It will be today, but it must and will be in the future as well. Then it's important in itself that the whole population can read it and understand it, and it's, in my opinion, a heavy constitutional responsibility The Storting has to make sure that happens. But it doesn't happen, unfortunately, through this treatment. Democracy is something more than the Structural People's Rule. Democracy means that the population is informed, and the Constitution is the law of the people. It's the one who fits the individual human being so that the state power can't commit an assault on it. It also regulates our constitution and our governance. And why in the world is it necessary to be opposed to it being written in the language that people use? I don't understand. It should be quite obvious and nothing controversial at all about this enlargement by a sufficient majority decided that the language in question should be used in the Constitution. It doesn't deprive the Constitution of any kind of authority, and because we made the last decision, as part of a compromise, it can be corrected now. There's no rematch. It's a struggle in the name of democracy to get a correct and proper language. Moreover, this will be entirely in line with our linguistic tradition, as it has evolved over time, that our official writing language, i.e. what we use otherwise – in all the documents of the Stortinge, among others. – follows the development of the language as we always speak and write it. Those who were in Eidsvoll wrote the Constitution in the language of the day. If we, as representatives of big business, are to represent the same value as the owners, and the same culture, we will do the same thing. For what did they do? Yes, they made a settlement with the Danish language and wrote in the language of the time, precisely with the reason we have for our proposal. It should really be easy for an aggregate accumulation to stand behind such an understanding of the need for time-consuming bookkeeping when we have a time-consuming novelty. We should be proud of what was done in 1814, and we should follow that tradition today by the fact that there was a large enough majority. It's not often you say something like that from Storting's pulpit, but I'm a little sorry that it doesn't work, because then the entire language review we had in connection with our 200th anniversary would have been completed. We had a whole set of language themes in both of the two official target forms in Norway today. So we're not going to do that, and it's sad and regrettable. But the parties who vote against are once again responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e231	I must admit that when I sat and listened to the posts of the representative Kolberg, I recognized some of the story, but not all of it. I'm going to come back to the points where our historical perception – since we're working on these issues in the previous period, in the same committee – is different from each other. However, I got a little feeling that it would be nice if we could turn off a little bit too familiar, for this violent drama that lies in something that has no meaning for content, and that does not exclude reader groups at all or have anything to do with the fact that the voters, from the point of view of democracy, could not get acquainted with the content of the current Basic Law, which I think was an exaggeration. What we are facing today is a reversal of the style elections that the Stortinget voted for four years ago by an overwhelming majority – 165 against 4 votes, by roll call. It would be very special, I think, if you were to file this one more time without any other reason than that you lost a discussion that is of a more aesthetic nature, and where I also put the emphasis on the moment that the representative Kolberg totally omitted, that in the style discussion it was also a desire to keep references, formulations and idioms from the original text of the constitution. And that's right, the Constitution has been changed 214 times until the Constitutional Audit of a Language Type in 2014, and you'd put yourself on what was, let's say, the official administrative language of 1903. Then I will also mention – for those who are going to apply the law, and it is good that people should be able to read the law – that in the language theme we now have, there are no forms that are not available in official books. All of them are accepted forms. But we have an advantage, which is illustrated today, by the fact that Professor Vinje remained more loyal to the original text, and it is very well illustrated in another amendment, in which it was rather too quickly translated into more daily speech, that is, ‘to borrow on the credit of the kingdom’, got a new, or shifted, content — a new meaning, because Vinje’s proposal was to ‘open loans on the credit of the kingdom’. So it's a burden on the country's creditworthiness, but it's not the Storting that picks up the individual loan. Right here, we saw the advantage that one version was closer to what was intended for Eidsvoll, or later, than this slightly unviable simplification that the other could be said to be a rash of. Then I'm just going to add to the storywriting and the new Norse version that the Right wasn't related to the treatment in the previous period that we got a new Norse version. It is an earlier discussion, which did not belong to that period, and neither have I affected it during our work on the matter in the Control and Constitutional Committee. Although you might have opinions about that, the right has worked throughout the previous period on the assumption that we should have two equal versions. Then I would also like to remind you that the old text, the one we thought we were going to get rid of in 2014, will live on with those who are going to use the law, because the Supreme Court, while using legal sources, will also go back to previous case-law, i.e. its own case-law, and look at precedents that have been based on the original text. So the original text will – whether we like it or not, whether you prefer the Graver version or the Vinje version or stick to the new Norse version – live with us, at least those who are going to apply these paragraphs in their practical work have to look at it to see if there may have been an undesirable shift of significance, which we otherwise rectify when it comes to ‘taking up loans on the sovereign credit’. I would like to end by saying that when the proposers state their proposal that we should have the Constitution in Norwegian time, we can see that we already have it – we got it four years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e246	The Constitution of 1814 is just one step on the long road Norway has had to build up its own fundamental law. After all, we have traditions that go all the way back to the 600s A.D., with Frostingslova, Gulatingslova, etc., which were subsequently coordinated into a larger text through Magnus Lagbøte's work in the 1200s. This was passed on by the Danes, etc., and we know history around 1814. So this is a long cascade of historical processes. A great deal of what is stated in the Constitution, both the version from 1814 and the one we have today, are also things that have been carried on completely back from the 600s, for example. one thing we're going to discuss later today, the Odelinstitut, and one thing we're going to discuss for the autumn, the ownership of the sea. These are legends that have lived with us for a long, long time. One has always changed the language, one has always adapted the language to its time – opens. Of course, we've left the Old Norse. Of course, we have left the 1814 language – already in 1903 one left it because it had done so much in the Norwegian community in a language that one had to adapt the text of the Constitution to the language in which one works. That's the situation we're in right now. A closed end, four years ago, with a whole new text, a new text, which consists of what might be called a 2010 spelling standard in new Norwegian. But then one was able to do a piece of work that made one more with a book target version of the basic law text that belongs to the home in the 1950s. I still have a good idea of how one managed to get there that the 1950s were a little bit more of a klenodium, while 2010 was not. I'll get to the point. So we have a constitution today that consists of two texts that are not harmonised. This involves certain linguistic differences and, in some cases, differences in the structure of paragraphs and paragraphs, and of course it creates some plunder for those who are going to use these paragraphs and the joints actively in everyday life. In the Basic Law Selection proposal, several paragraphs are simplified by dividing long and difficult sentences. There is no current version based on Vinje's solution, which means that references to the two language versions will be different for some paragraphs. For example, there are different breakdowns in Grundlova § 6, first paragraph, § 13, second paragraph, § 21, § 26, second paragraph, and § 64. Over time, this might be quite interesting, when these laws are to be developed. It can just be a chaotic relationship. It is clear that the Stortinget – at least on a later occasion – must harmonise these two texts. It's just not this big thing that's going to do it, we're going to leave it to the relatives to take care of it. We also have the rarity that the evidence of human rights, which came in at a later time, has a more timely book measure than the other features of today's constitution. Then we can go to battle and refute Tetzschner's claim that this is a foundation law that one with a normal schooling will understand, because here it's very strange. The word ‘businesses’ has been preserved in several paragraphs of today’s Constitution, for example: in the third paragraph of Section 15, which limits the tasks of the Council of State following a decision of censure. It says: ‘Where the Storting has taken a decision on mistrust, only the operations necessary for the proper performance of the duties may be carried out.’ The word ‘business’ is ambiguous and today gives associations to business – that’s how we use it today – while one in the Grundlova my ‘todo’. It is also what the proposers propose as a new text – simply a ‘todo’. But in order to preserve the klenodi, one must therefore preserve ‘business’, which is increasingly understood in the context. Paragraph 17 of today’s resolution states: «The King may provide and remove devices relating to trade, customs, economic routes and public administration and regulation; however, they may not conflict with the constitution and the laws given by the Stortinget in accordance with the following Sections 76, 77, 78 and 79. They apply on a provisional basis until the next Storting.’;» The word 'device' can be used for sitting and thinking. This word is contained in today's text, although it has been abandoned for the most time, including in legal terminology, which also means that my friends who are lawyers and who are working on it use the new version when looking up in the Constitution, for a match of such words. By «arrangements» mean a promise here, as the King's decision under Section 17 has an effect as law. In the draft Constitution, such as: SV representatives are behind, it is proposed to replace the word ‘arrangements’ by ‘laws’. To continue to use the word ‘device’ means that it will still be difficult for people other than legal schooled — by the old school, well to note — to understand what kind of competence the King has given according to § 17. Then we can take a look at Section 22, second paragraph, about dismissal for officials. The Constitutional text today states that ‘officials who are dismissed shall be directly sued before the courts’. In this context, the word ‘prosecution’ is misleading, as today it is used for formal complaints in criminal proceedings, whereas in these cases there would normally be a case in a civil case claiming to be dismissed. The draft constitution, for which there is not sufficient plurality, proposes to replace ‘appealed’ with ‘prescribed’, which is the normal use of words and incorporated terminology for civil matters. Furthermore, the first paragraph of Section 26 states that the King has the right to ‘enter and terminate covenants’. The word ‘bund’ refers linguistically to cooperation agreements between countries or other types of associations. In legal terminology, the word has been widely used, and in modern Norwegian languages the word is used primarily for different types of private associations, for example. Sports Association and Norwegian Nursing Association. In conjunction with Grundlova, the word ‘bond’ is also unpresisting, as the King’s competence under the first paragraph of Section 26 goes further and covers all types of international legal dispositions on behalf of the State of Norway. We can also find the word ‘bund’ in Section 75g, but here the meaning is more easily available from the context. One can understand. Paragraph 74, first paragraph, second sentence, states: ‘No deliberation shall take place in the presence of the king.’ It would be interesting to right what definition people in this room have of ‘debate’. As a philosopher, I happen to have a good knowledge of what a deliberation is, but I don't think it's something that most people know what it is. The word «deliberation» helps to make the contents of this mentioned section 74 incomprehensible to today's readers. In the proposal for an amendment, which is not given a number today, the word «debate» has been changed to «debate». And then we got the answer. The word ‘deliberation’ is also used in the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 76 and the third paragraph in connection with the legal proceedings in Stortinget. Finally, Section 100, which is one of the tab paragraphs of the Constitution, says today: ‘Freedom of expression should take place.’ The word «should» in the Constitution must be understood as «should». Of course, that's also the meaning of the new Norwegian version. In the proposal that today does not have an adequate majority, this has been changed to ‘shall take place’. Why should one have this kind of ambiguities, ambiguities that were not necessarily perceived as ambiguities in the 1950s or earlier, but that is what it opens today – i.e. it's a little bit of an opening for it to "take place" but not "shall take place"? So to some of the things that have been said: A klenodium is something old and nice, something we've loved. In this case, it's a national clenodium, the people's clenodium. Then I thought it was funny that one could find that the language norms from the 1950s are the place where the klenodia is to be placed. I just can't really understand how a person can figure it out. I'd like to praise the Storting for introducing a new Norwegian version. He's written in accordance with a modern spelling standard. Why didn't one here also take the starting point in the 1950s, so that there was a certain match, at least in terms of time, when it pertains to this klenodi that one wants to preserve? I find it strange – perhaps more than strange – that one is so steadfast in preserving Vinje's proposal, with the problems this will create for legislators in the future and for readers when it comes to understanding content. I think it's weak, just plain.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e307	The representative Michael Tetzschner asked me to turn him off. I can turn off the known, but I do not turn off in my political argument against the linguistic conservatism that we are presented, among other things. in what the representative Tetzschner says. Then I don't turn anything off, because he, and to the extent that the case-rapporteur, says several things that are a little remarkable, and I hope the debate can settle. They say that this is really not important because it is so understandable what is in the existing book measure version, that is, the Vinje version. But now we heard a very good review by the representative Knag County of how many ambiguities that the version actually contains, and how many challenges it presents, including for Stortinget, in order to understand all the words. I have read this in my own time – well, of course – and I struggle with a good part of the understandings that Knag Fylkesnes also explained, and there are others. I'm sure the representative of the Knag County agrees. So Michael Tetzschner says it's about normal schooling. I think that's a very special statement. Because that's not what it's about, it's difficult things, legal understandings of the meaning of words, which belong to a different time and another setting, which is to be used in modern Norway. That's why I don't turn off too familiar. Because it's actually in that way an important political matter that relates to what I had as my main point in my first post, namely the understanding of democracy and the people's access to understanding the Constitution, and thus understanding their rights through the Constitution. That's the important thing in the case, of course. It goes on to say, again from the representative, Tetzschner, and from the case-rapporteur, too, that the Constitution has its own cultural value. Yeah, I totally agree with that. The Constitution has three functions: one is to regulate the governance of the state; the other is to protect the individual citizen; and, of course, the third is to lay the foundation for the entire democratic development of a society. So it's of great cultural value, I totally agree with that. Maybe we'll have a little bit of a discussion about it, but the understanding of history here is in and of itself quite important to bring with us: in the last round, when we dealt with all of these things, the representatives of the Right also thought that the Constitution, as it was originally, was of such cultural value that we shouldn't have it in neural terms. I just remember it -- that it kind of had nothing to do with the newnorse. Finally, the vote was in favour, but it was finally, after long, heavy discussions along this track: that the Constitution should not be touched because of its cultural value, i.e. the hundreds of thousands of people who have a new Norse as their main objective should not have access to the country's most important law in their own language, having regard to the cultural value of the law. Then I ask – and that’s not rhetorical: Is today’s language not culturally valuable enough? Is that the language that the people speak, that we use in all our documents, and in all our daily talk, not of great enough cultural value that the most important law can contain that language? That, I believe, requires an explanation in this debate, quite simply. Because you can't just use the expression 'cultural value' without actually going into it and looking at it in the context that I've just said. The term'superfluous simplifications' is also used for the gravers' proposals, which were not only the gravers' proposals, but were supported by a heavy committee set up by our own presidency in the previous period, which concluded exactly with the field-by-field language. Wine didn't want it, and the Right didn't want it. Finally, it was not adopted – no well – for political reasons that I have explained, but it was quite clear what the Workers' Party thought about the need to get a timely book measure, just for the reasons that I have now said. And there's no question of over-simplification. It's simply going to the language that we have, which is explainable. I therefore do not think that such characteristics should be used in the very good work done by the Graver Committee, which brought with it the full width – the entire width – of Norwegian language research and Norwegian language council, which stood behind that version. It was not adopted last, and it is not adopted now. I think that's sad. It is then that the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, said: we are going to leave it to the coming big ones, because we are not going to give up on this, of course. It is a political struggle, it is a cultural struggle, and it is a language struggle, and it has always been important in Norway, and the Labour Party clearly shows where we stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e322	As a co-rapporteur on the proposal for the Basic Law on time-booking, and as a member of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in the previous period, I find it necessary to provide brief information. As the representative Kolberg said, there was a heated discussion on the topic in the previous period. We were then given a decision by the necessary majority who gave us the Basic Law in time-new Norwegian, but not in time-booking. I was then very surprised by the argument from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, where there was very little willingness to get the Constitution in timely language. It was, as the representative Kolberg said, only in the last, final phase that there came support from those parties to a timely newnorm. What was very interesting was that the bar of argument was this about the basic law being a klenodium. One argued against a time language and a Constitution in New Norse with that basis. And just as at the time, we now experience that the Right draws its legs and does not want a current, important law in everyday life to have a form of language that more people are interested in understanding the depth and content of. I have noticed that the Right Party that we are experiencing today is not very concerned with the Constitution of Norway, and I have wondered very much about why the party that initially had a very anchor in the Constitution – it was the Constitutional Associations that were part of the foundation for the establishment of the Right Party – is no longer concerned with the Constitution. I have found no other logical and real explanation for this than that our Constitution, with Section 1, where it states that Norway is a free, maritime country, is going to be in strong conflict with an EU membership, where the EU establishes a job over time to get its own Constitution. I have no other explanation than that the Right is deterred from modernising our own Constitution – that one does not want particular attention, especially vitality about it – because it will create a conflict with regard to a Union membership, which may thus become greater. But what's interesting is that the interest in and awareness of the Constitution is growing among people. It's very positive, also because the Constitution is important to our daily lives, and it therefore requires people's information by also facilitating that the Constitution is easier to understand. Not least, it is important for young people’s interest in the Constitution. As everyone has said, these are extremely important paragraphs – not only the state-law paragraphs, but also central flag paragraphs that should be given more attention, § 110 on full employment and § 112 on long-term management of natural resources. These are current paragraphs that need to be much more widely addressed in the daily conversation about how we organise Norway. It is regrettable that the majority of us, who use book goals as writing goals, do not get the Constitution in their – and our – temporal language. This makes new Norwegian more current for several of us book users, and I just want to congratulate Norway's goal layer that one here has a foundation law on their writing goals, while one does not have equivalent in book goals. The time worked for the Basic Law in Norwegian time. The work on time accounting must continue during the forthcoming bottling period. Sickness about today's enlargement does not have the necessary majority for constitutional change, is working on the time for that matter – so be sure that we are not able to establish the necessary majority here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e341	That's probably exactly four years since we had the debate on changing the language of the Constitution. If I don't remember correctly, it was May Day in 2014, around the big anniversary of the Constitution. I belonged to what eventually became a very small minority in Stortinget, who did not want to change the language of the Constitution. I thought we lived very well with the language we had, even though it was called old-fashioned, historical, plural, and other things. I also belonged to those who thought that having the Constitution in one form, and to my good friend and party trap Martin Kolberg, I would like to make it clear that I was finally the only one of Stortinget's 169 representatives who voted against having a new Norse version. It wasn't because I have something against newnorm, it's rather the opposite that's the case for me, but I feared that we would get into a situation where there was no match in the language theme between a newnorm and a book target version. The result of the treatment in 2014 was just that. We are now in a situation where the two versions – Bokmål and Nynorsk – are not harmonised and do not comply. I think that's very unfortunate. I just think that's messy. Regardless of what we meant in 2014, everyone should take responsibility and respect that there is a majority in the Grand Duchy to modernise the language of the Constitution, and respect that there is a majority in the Grand Duchy to have both a new Norse version and a book target version. Then, in respect of that, the great crowd should also, man up and make sure that we have a language theme that makes both versions harmonised and consistent. Today, of course, it could have been tempting for me to say: What did I say in 2014? Of course, it could also be tempting to refer to Ibsen’s ‘A People’s Enemy’, which I think I did in 2014, that the one who is strongest is the one who stands alone. I'm not going to do that either. But I think we all have a responsibility to get out of the somewhat unfortunate situation we've come up with, that there's no match between the constitutional versions of the two objectives. My conclusion is that I want to be with and take that responsibility. I am going to vote in favour of the committee's position, i.e. the proposal from the majority of the committee, to change the language in the bookcase – simply because I think we should man up and make sure that the versions of the two objectives are consistent. Regardless of what we meant in 2014, we should all take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e354	To the previous speaker, I would say that it is remarkable when you first put so much emphasis on the original text and on what it means, both culturally and linguistically, that you end up with a conclusion where you choose a prose that is slightly lower than the high prose and the style that was offered to the Stortinget through the edited proposal that Professor Vinje was behind. To the representative Kolberg: I have to come back to this by turning off a little too familiar. Of course, there is no question in his mind that something is better than anything else, but I think with this I could point out a number of exaggerations about the difference between the two texts, and therefore also an exaggeration in describing any adverse effects that the texts are not exactly the same. At the same time, I don't think history writing, especially from the period we worked on these issues in the control committee, was quite comprehensive. It may have been comprehensive for earlier periods, I think the representative must have been injured in order to mix up several periods, because there is a development in the discussions in several lots. When it was just the book-keeping version that was offered to us from Graver, who also made a great effort, it was not possible to get past that it was an over-simplification when you describe what is the Storting's task and competence – otherwise even a ambiguous word. Then it's a fact that we have to rectify it today, precisely by getting closer to the original text. If we're going to solve the harmonisation problem, if we're not to get an unwanted displacement of content, we're going to have to re-select Vinje's starting point and a new Norse version that matches it. Or you can also see it differently and say that you choose a new Norwegian version that is closer to the original text from 1903. I don't think you should exaggerate these differences. I think it would be a great institutionmaker if the Stortinget now – four years after a very thorough debate and process in the committee – by so clearly a majority have decided what should be Norwegian in time, for that is what we now have in the Constitution. Then I have to say to Knag Fylkesnes' review: if it is such that any foreign word or any multilingual word of a certain length used in a context to which you are not accustomed should be removed from the text – you have to assume that the reader does not go into the context of the text – you will get a big problem. I must also say to this with business and tasks – which the representative had in mind – that precisely by keeping the name, that, after a government has resigned, it is supposed to be responsible for the operation of Norway, and one describes it as carrying out necessary business, i.e. on-going business, should one call the Council of State at this stage a Ministry of To do? One sees how one choice of words will definitely eliminate the understanding of other terms we use on such occasions. Then I have to tell the representative Lundteg that first to attack the Right to be less concerned with the Constitution, and then to attack us not to change the Constitution enough, I don't think I'm completely connected. The interpretation of a secret motive from the Right to make it easier for EU membership because we choose the Vinje version rather than the Graver version should be an unusually good imagination – at least to add other motives to this. I can assure you that this page has not been promoted in our group rooms. Finally, Lundtigen also stripes something that is a problem in the Constitution, namely that we have a flag paragraph – as he called it – § 110, about full employment. It should be borne in mind, both when giving laws and when giving basic laws, that if provisions are made that are intended to be flags, which are agreed not to be able to have legal jurisdiction or trigger legal remedies for those who would invoke the paragraph, and are introduced in the context of an anniversary or modernisation of the law, before the last anniversary, and the Stortinge is aware that concrete benefits should never be triggered, because it is part of the ongoing social security debate and business discussions we have, for full employment, of the Constitution does not help us. It is not the constitutional provisions that make us happy to have low unemployment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e373	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e379	I was a little in doubt if I should take the word again, but I just don't want it to be said that the representative Tetzschner says that I have been hurt to mix the Right's position in the Nynorsk question with the previous position and what happened at the previous crossroads. I have not been hurt to remember anything wrong. The right was opposite it almost until we got into the hall. I just want this to be said, so that it doesn't stand, what Michael Tetzschner said about me getting hurt to remember mistakes, because I don't remember any mistakes at that point. In addition – in the last few seconds – to the fact that we should not exaggerate the differences: No, but why in the world are you so very opposed to going to modern books, if there are no major differences and big realities associated with this? Then it's just a linguistic conservatism that's going and going, and it doesn't belong in 2018 for any parties in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e386	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e402	I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation. The issue we are now going to deal with is two draft constitutions – proposal No. 20, promoted by Martin Kolberg, Jette F. Christensen and Gunvor Eldegard, on linguistic adjustments in some paragraphs of the Basic Law in Nynorsk, and Constitutional Amendment No. 15, by Eivind Smith, adopted to produce Michael Tetzschner and Sylvi Graham, on the amendment to Sections 17, 49, 50, 75 and 109, which correct language errors following the constitutional amendments in 2014. When the Stortinge adopted the Basic Law in new Norwegian in 2014, it was subsequently found that the adopted new Norwegian Constitutional Law provided by the proposers was identical to the new draft law of the Graver Committee, differing from the selection’s draft on a number of points. The differences have no legal significance; they are only linguistic differences and do not alter the content of the Constitution. The proposers, Martin Kolberg, Jette F. Christensen and Gunvor Eldegard, want the correct version of the Draft Constitutional Act of the Graver Committee to be adopted in neo-Norwegian, and they have therefore proposed amendments to the Constitutional Provisions where there has been a discrepancy. Reference is made to the linguistic amendments made in proposal No. 20, which the Committee unanimously supports. In Section 75(b) of the Constitution, proposers propose an alternative proposal for ‘to borrow from the State’. The proposal is to replace it with the wording of the book measure version, i.e. ‘to open loans on the national credit system’. The reason for this is that ‘to raise loans on the credit of the State’ represents a change in reality compared to ‘to open loans on the credit of the State’. It is not the Storting itself, but the Government, that practically takes up the individual loans under a given mandate framework. In proposal No 15, from Eivind Smith, made by Michael Tetzschner and Sylvi Graham, there is talk of correcting linguistic errors in the Basic Law § 17, 49, 50, 75 and 109 following the constitutional changes in 2014. It concerns linguistic corrections in both language versions, and the proposal must be seen in the context of proposals Nos. 11 and 20. The proposers invite the Stortinget to complete the 2014 reform by correcting the basic text on some points where the content of the two language versions does not entirely match, or where linguistic errors reflect a different content of opinion than that contained in the older text. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party recommend that the Constitution be corrected on the proposed points. It is not about changing the intended content of the sentence in today's text. The proposals are comparable to amendments to bring the text of the Constitution into line with the 1903 language code, which was adopted on several occasions before 2014. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre do not agree with the proposal for amendments to proposal No. 15th They refer to their comments at the Innst. 249 S, which we have just dealt with, and consider it necessary to fully harmonise the two texts of the Constitution, i.e.: that they wish to reverse the decision taken in 2014, because they will have the Book target version of the Constitutional Commission, or the Graver Committee, instead of Vinje’s version and will not support proposals that are contrary to the proposals of the Constitutional Commission. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is sad that we cannot deal with and respect the decision taken by an overwhelming majority in 2014. The Constitution, as I have said before, is not something we should make big changes in and change in time and out of time. It is, as I said, a national clenodium, and we should treat it with caution and respect. That is why, in my view, it is regrettable that we cannot complete the 2014 reform by correcting the constitutional text where there are blatant linguistic errors, where the constitutional text – contrary to the objective of linguistic modernisation – reflects a different content of opinion than that contained in the older text, or where the natural content of the two language versions does not match. I'm addressing the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e427	The representative Bente Stein Mathisen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e432	Thanks to the rapporteur for a thorough review, also in the light of the fact that the setting has been split with regard to I. The discussion we have here needs to be seen, of course, in the light of that discussion, or the delibration – which I understand is still to be called – that we had in the previous case. For our part, of course, we agree on the subject of Constitutional Amendment No. 20. I agree with the rapporteur's presentation. We also agree on what was also mentioned in the previous debate, regarding Section 75, that we will get this in place with borrowings. When we, the majority of the committee, propose that proposal No. 15 is not acceptable, it has its background in the discussion we just had – and not all of the paragraphs. Let me underline that. Some of those paragraphs we could like to discuss. This applies to § 49. We agree on Section 75. We could have been with and discussed § 17. But in the case of Section 50, on voting rights for women and men, there is an example of the fact that the present proposal is opposed to the modern form that is now in bookmaking and that we believe should also be in neonymous. That is why we have chosen to be faithful to the general way of dealing with Constitutional Law proposals; where they are promoted in one proposal – with several paragraphs – we do not go in and out of the individual paragraphs. That means that we don't have the opportunity to vote for the paragraphs that it could have been right to change, but we vote as a whole. The reason why we recommend that this is not accepted is that parts of the proposal go in the opposite direction of modernisation, a common form of language in bookkeeping and new Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e441	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e457	This draft constitution has not created a great debate, and I do not think so here in the Chamber today either. Nevertheless, we're changing a text that's all the way back from 1814, which has survived for 204 years. Paragraph 5 is a provision which is a key wording concerning the responsibility of the executive. While the king enjoys absolute legal immunity, the king’s counsel is the responsibility – that is, the government. In today's provision, it says, "The King's person is holy", and then it continues. Those words must be seen in the light of the time they were written – that is, unchanged since 1814 – and the term has survived other cleanups in the Constitution, which have removed these ties to the Lutheran Church. There is nothing to suggest that this should be there today. Neither did the king's position as head of the Lutheran Church until 2012 require any perception of the king's personality as sacred. So it has remained standing through these up-to-date reviews and has no significance for the meaning of the paragraph. So that means that the king's legal immunity will be exactly the same. Since there is a proposed simplification and it will not change the legal content of the opinion, the Committee sees no reason to maintain today's wording. Now we have discussed several issues here about modernising the language and being in line with the efforts of 2014. This is such a cleanup. Therefore, the Committee agrees that the first sentence of Section 5 of the Basic Law is to be replaced by the following: ‘The King’s person cannot be loaded or accused’ and in the new version: ‘The King can’t be loaded or blamed for anything’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e470	Let me first make it clear that the proposal we are debating today – in so far as it can be called a debate – to remove a sentence in the Constitutional Act § 5 which states that the King’s person is holy, has the support of the Left. The wording is in many ways a fuss and should, in my view, have been removed in connection with constitutional changes related to the revision of the Church System. Nevertheless, there is reason to recall that a majority of 18 out of 20 members of the Gjønnes Committee, who investigated the state church system as late as 2006, felt that the wording should remain because ‘holy’ had to be understood as ‘incredible’ and therefore had nothing to do with religion. The size of the sample subsequently agreed with the conclusion of the sample. But the world, including the Storting, is moving forward. Even if you were to base such an interpretation, i.e. an infringement, in my view, there is every reason to remove the sentence. The concept of ‘infringement’ has emerged in recent times as being so controversial and ambiguous that it may hardly have anything to do with a constitutional text — at least not without explicitly attaching a content to the concept. Furthermore, in dealing with this matter, it may be fruitful to make some remarks about what seems to be the remaining part of Section 5 – that is, the question of the king’s immunity – ‘he cannot be charged or accused’. This has been interpreted as being protected from personal prosecution and from personal punishment. The original reason for such a rule of law may appear to be twofold. One relates to the principle of power-sharing by providing a State power with specific legal protection against sanctions from another. The other is of a more subtle nature and has to do with the dignity of the king: the king, in our state form, constitutes the very embodiment of our democracy, and a prosecution of him will weaken his dignity or trust – thus undermining the authority of the state form. Now it must be said, however, that the king's immunity appears to be composed of the relationship to two rather separate identities, one linked to the king's position in capacity as head of state and one to his role as private person. Constitutional distinction is not made between these – so the king has immunity even if he does not carry out his official duties. Now the king is a person of considerable wealth, which in some cases it may be necessary to protect by going to court. The King's private interests were the subject of a case on grazing rights in Vestmarka and a subsequent judgment in Borgarting Lawyers' Law in 2002. The situation arose in the time there were still cows in the Skagum. The king was in this case no. 43 out of a total of 112 appeal parties. The King and the other plaintiffs lost the case, which in itself does not have to trigger any constitutional problem. On the other hand, what became a challenge to the court was the imposition of costs, as the parties to the appeal were sentenced to pay a total of NOK 676 000 – a claim that the court thought would affect the question of the king's immunity. Civilizing the law solved this challenge through a legal trick, by taking His Majesty out of the list of the defendants. What should lie the Biggest on the Heart is the question of what would have happened if the King were the only defendant. Could His Majesty then, in such a case, be judged to pay the costs? Or should the costs of the case be covered by the public – which, in such eventualities, had to bear the procedural risk for the King's actions in matters that are strictly private matters? The original proposer, Professor Eivind Smith, has himself affected another side of the king's immunity that should prompt thought. It concerns the treatment of the Statutes of the International Criminal Court, the so-called Rome Statute of 17 July 1998, ratified by Norway on 16 February 2000. According to the Statutes, Norway has undertaken an obligation under international law to participate in criminal proceedings ‘without any discrimination on the basis of an official position’. Article 27(2) of the Statute establishes: ‘Immunities or specific procedural rules which may be linked, where appropriate, to the official position of a person, whether under national or international law, shall not prevent the Court from exercising its jurisdiction over that person.’;» In other words, through the Statute of the International Criminal Court, Norway has committed itself to contributing to the appointment of the Head of State to international law in given situations. Of course, this is about the most hypothetical situations, but there is hardly any reason in itself to fail to correct an obvious logical flaw in our constitutional law. In discussing this issue, Professor Smith concluded that Norway has committed itself with open eyes to acting contrary to the Constitution. When Stortingen dealt with this matter 18 years ago, it was obvious that there was no contradiction in the fact that the country adhered to any demands for criminal prosecution relating to the heads of state of foreign countries without adjusting our own legislation accordingly. According to Smith, there was nothing to suggest that the theme was discussed in detail during the course of the matter through the Stortinget. Paragraph 5 of the Basic Law also relates to Section 37, which potentially guarantees the immunity of princes and princesses, in that they shall, as it is called, ‘not answer to their persons other than the King, or to whom he presides over them’. Of course, the argument about the Rome Statutes also has its validity in this case with regard to the heresies, but it is another aspect of princes and the legal position of princesses that are of greater interest, as the Constitutional Immunities rule in a case has actually been applied in a specific case. This is a case in 1993, when the Department of Justice considered Section 37 to be an obstacle to a princess’s being tried as a witness in a case before a British court. Was this in line with the general opinion of the Court? On this basis, it may appear that the time may be ripe for an assessment of the immunity point in the Constitution in a broader context than the present proposal bears the mark. Does it really make sense today that the members of the royal house should benefit from immunity protection in cases where, for example, it is. are their own private and/or financial interests at stake? But why stop here? For example: I notice in the setting that the proposers suggest the comic in Section 5 as it appears today. It is apparently a source of «motherhood», it is said, that the King in the sense of the Basic Law is to be regarded as «holy». In a time when, among other things, from this pulpit has been given great emphasis on getting arranged marriages and social control to live, it appears today – at least for this representative – something comical, not to say tragic, that in our constitution we have a provision in Section 36 that assures the nation that no hereditary prince or princess can marry without the permission of the head of state. The Constitution is to be the leading force in the development of society itself, said the representative of Kolberg in the first case we are dealing with today. That's right! But it is not the theme today. We'll take that up at the next crossroads – if that's what's the correct expression in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e507	As the Advocate General put it, Section 5 deals with the king’s immunity and is a key wording in terms of responsibility for the executive. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal for a change that we are now considering. As the proposers refer to, constitutional provisions on certain forms of immunity for the head of state are very common, not only in monarchy but also in republican states. It is not a matter of removing immunity in this case. We assume that the Constitutional Law on Immunity for the Head of State of Norway will last as long as we have a monarchy in our country. Otherwise, the Christian People's Party has no plans to change that. So today's wording in Section 5 is: ‘The King’s person is holy; he cannot be charged or accused.’ Of course, today's formulation of the king's holiness has a historical background. I'm not going to go into the history and details here, it's already done, and I'm referring to his good review. The point is that the concept is read into a historical context. The term has remained unchanged since 1814, which of course means that a person is filled with reverence when the text is to be amended, but it is obviously right to do so now. And we do it with the necessary respect required from a value-conservative party like the Christian People's Party, where respect for tradition stands high. It is true, as it is written, that the king's position as head of the Lutheran Church until the 2012 Constitutional Amendment was not based on any perception of personal holiness. The term “holy” has remained alone. The proposers therefore believe that the characteristic ‘holy’ is irrelevant to the content of the sentence of Section 5 of the Basic Law and that the king’s legal immunity would be exactly the same if the first sentence of Section 5 simply read: ‘The King’s person cannot be charged or accused.’ The Christian People's Party agrees with this assessment. Simplification of the text of the Constitution in line with the proposal does not alter the legal content of the provision. The Christian People's Party agrees that there is no reason to keep today's wording in the first sentence, which has a reference that is not relevant in today's legal text. At the same time, it should be said that it will be a long way to change a concept that is deeply anchored over time. It's about symbolism, tradition, and not least about healthy conservative instincts. But a change in the text at this point does not cause any loss to us who support a monarchic form of government in Norway. On the contrary, this is about changing to maintain an important institutional function. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the Committee's recommendation – option 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e529	As one of the proposers, I just want to record that the proposal has been dealt with in accordance with what the proposers hoped, and I look confidently forward to the vote. It is one of the proposals on the table today that have the prospect of being adopted by the necessary majority. I also wanted to thank the representative Grimstad for a very interesting post, which, however, does not affect this change – I think the representative himself was in the process of doing so – because what we are taking out now is a reference to what in its time could have contributed to justifying a one-off plot of violence, which was being built up on Eidsvoll. One occasionally stumbles at the notion that it was on Eidsvoll that democracy was founded. It's true that without the Eidsvolls Assembly, we wouldn't achieve a state of justice so quickly, but it wasn't the spread of democracy that was at the heart of the Eidsvolls, it was to reduce the king's power from being a single force to become a king's power in interaction with other institutions, on the basis of the principle of power distribution. Fortunately, then, we got within – and partly outside – the Constitutional framework a development of our democratic institutions and habits. «Holy» originally comes from the north-eated «holy» and is derived from «whole» in the meaning of «unharmed». So it kind of reminds me of immunity. But it is also this that the linguistic has been associated with the divine or divine power, which is then to be treated with a religious awe. In our time, we are content with a more civil respect for what the king does, and what the king is, and the symbol that the constitutional monarchy gives us. This is no more than the intention of the proposers. So it's to get out what had to be a reminder that the kingship was metaphysically justified, not as part of a democratic constitutional kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e540	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e556	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its cooperation. The Old Norse word for soil, field and meadow is «nodel», but in particular the word was used for land which has been the subject of the peculiar desserts of pre-emption, right to redeem, and qualified legal protection. You can read this in Jon Skeie's 'Odelsrecht and the Court of Appeal' from 1950. In the book, he gives a background for how the nobles and the hostages have worked here to land. Although no written sources were found, Scheie believes that both the Civil and the Swiss Act had rules of extraterritorial law. After Frostingslova, there was no part in the fourth imitation. Why is it so important to bring these old sources forward in a debate in 2018? Yes, because it sees in a good way how we as countries have valued the earth and the food production we have had here to land, through generations, in changing times, in war and peace. It says blood is thicker than water. Does a blood bond between family generations give us better farmers? Of course, I cannot claim that a person must be born on a garden in order to drive him. In many cases, new blood and new meanings may be healthy. But at the same time, there is the experience and knowledge that goes on to new generations, a lot of knowledge that new owners and new drivers don't get. But it's so important that with the odelslova, the one who wants to take over, has the time to set out, get the education and experience that is suitable for running the garden, so he or she is safe to take over. It is also not that a guard must be taken over if a guard is not willing or equipped to continue. Odelslova assures us a scattered ownership with self-owning peasants who have seen it as their goal to develop the garden and deliver it to the next generation in better condition than when he was drawn over. This has also helped to maintain a variety of farms throughout the country. In the 1998 book «National strategists» of Rune Schlagstad, the author takes us on a journey from the state of office to what he calls the Left State and finally to the Labour Party State. Slagstad sees the country’s first agricultural engineer, Jonas Smitt, who was appointed as an expert consultant in the Ministry of Interior in 1874. His mantra was that gardening should be "the work of thought, based on scientific principles." According to Schlagstad, the idea was that instead of taking care of a traditional way of life, it was more important with higher productivity and more rational agriculture. He felt that knowledge was a means of progress. In the same book, Schlagstad wrote that it was the same rational efficiency policy the Labour Party made up after 1945. It should be a rational industry, a rational fish and a rational agriculture. It was probably natural in 1945, when increased food production and self-sufficiency were one of the big goals after the war. But eventually the challenge is that Norway is Norway. How much to spin and turn on, Jären will be on Jären, Valdres in Valdres and North Norway in North Norway. Yes, it is as Rolf Jacobsen writes in the North poem: ‘Most of it is north.’ So it's decisive that evolution is based on the area and the topography that we have. Norwegian agriculture has not been harmed by the right to vote and the right to vote we have had until now. On the contrary, it has made us feel good. Gardening and property have gone from genealogy to genealogy, and with it we have developed a culture of agriculture in line with what the first agricultural bureaucrat from 1874 thought was important: knowledge and progress. It is only to look at the efficiency figure for Norwegian agriculture, so one sees the tiring developments we have had in varying governments and different political wills to take care of food production. It's not like we in the Center Party or the plural in the Committee want to keep the noble laws as they always have been. No, we want to change it in time and society. Difor has the right of nobility and the right of residence would be in the process of being completely renewed from 1821 until today. The changes have been relatively extensive, not least since the large conversion in 1974 and until today. We, as big politicians, will always have a responsibility to make sure that our laws are in line with the time we live in. Law on the right to vote and to sit down is one of the laws we think it is important to take care of – not least when we see how developments are in countries without no law. Larger parts of the area are land leased to land with no ostrich law than it is in Norway. It is said from a number of quarters and in previous debates that the parties that have proposed the removal of the fundamental rights of the nobility and the occupation do not want to do anything about it now. There's something we have to bring in a pinch of salt or two. The Right Programme states that they will: ‘Remove the odel rule from the Basic Law and modernise the odel law’. The Progress Party will liquidate the concession, construction and operation obligations and the no partial regulation. The left will remove the odola law and the constitutional protection of the odola law. So the reason for the proposal is reasonably clear to us. The three parties that smoke to remove the protection that the nodel law has today want to leave the agricultural market entirely different from what today's laws and regulations open. The majority believe that the right of nobility and the right of residence has given a high degree of stability in terms of who is to take over the garden. This has also helped to give the one who had the best right to vote, time to change before the takeover, etc. by being able to take education. And as I begin with, with knowledge, agriculture is to be built. At the same time, the right of residence has enabled the person to take over the garden to make it at a price that can be remunerated by the operation. When the Control and Constitutional Committee last year invited to a seminar on the right of the nobility and the right of residence, it was one of the themes of what the law had to say to women in agriculture. In 1974, following the changes in odelslawa, which equated girls and boys in the case of odelsrights, there was also an equality reform. Today we think it's natural, but that time it wasn't. Yes, even in Norway's Bonde women's team, there was a bad deal about the change that time. Only four counties voted for equality. Thirteen others voted in favour of the old system. But when the change came about, the Bonde women team – the current Building women team – begins to work in a targeted way to change the grips of the no-parties. 15 years after the changes, i.e. 1989, numbers showed that only every third of the people benefit from their rights. The size of the garden and the economy was decisive. It was clearly easier to take over the small customs than the large ones. There's still a way to get more of the girls with nobility to say yes. Figures from 2016 show that 8 958 agricultural properties were translated. Of these, the number of female owners was 3,300. Six out of ten, both women and men, were related to the former owner. I think that the number of women farmers would be considerably less if it weren't for the right to vote today, and it actually protected him in the Constitution. Norway is between the world's highest proportion of women's owners and users of agricultural property, something we should be proud of. Odelslova and the protection she has in Grundlova, have been well-lit. Lova has made a good impression in the form that today we have self-owning farmers who have our protection against the capital forces, and tended to ensure that people in close families with an interest and determination to do so have managed the agricultural estates and beetreign for reindeer Norwegian food production. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee and here in Stortinget will continue to secure such a development, despite the fact that the proposers in both Document 12:16 for 2015–2016 and Document 12:33 for 2015–2016 will do something else. I propose that this committee adopt its proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e600	I thank the President-in-Office for the presentation of the majority voting and agree to his description of it. Instead, there were people swinging to the great heights when it came to the importance of tradition not to modernise the constitutional language too much. But if there's a tradition in the Constitution, and that's been with us from the very beginning, it's nobility and right of residence. What one has to ask is, why in the world should a repair something that works? This is a matter in which the political divisions in Norway are evident. There is no doubt that if one removes the basic law, it will be easier to change the law of nobility and other provisions that help to ensure that we in Norway have the agriculture we have. And it is really part of Norwegian culture and tradition that we don't have a situation where properties around the countryside can become investment objects for people who have a loose – if anything – relationship with the property and the area in which they are to own. There is no doubt that in Norway we have a rather special agricultural policy, and that is why Norway is special. It's one of the contributions that we have growth, that we have activity and that we have housing around the country. The fact that we have the right to vote, but that we build on it, and that we have a channelling policy that has made us want to use this whole country, is precisely one of the reasons why Norway is Norway, and that Norway differs from a country as close as Sweden in terms of activity and life in the countryside. That is why I fully endorse the rapporteur's statement. I fully agree that the law must follow developments. Yes, we'll change it if necessary. But the fundamental law protection that ensures that we continue to have the responsibility for a farm through oodel is also for the future incredibly important to ensure that farms do not become an investment object. The basic principle here must be – whether in the case of soil or in the case of forests – that through a comprehensive policy, where price control is one of the elements, we can ensure that those who take over the uses can finance the cost of the takeover, through the production for which the use has the capacity. We don't want to erase that relationship. In it, the protection of fundamental rights is an important element. So in this case, we – and the majority – stand for the traditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e613	Today, when we consider the proposal to repeal Section 117, there is a proposal that has been debated many times in this Chamber. I would assume that the political divisions will go where they have always done. Let's say that the right to vote has been with us as a nation for hundreds of years and is thus well established in our cultural heritage as well as in our constitution and other legislation. But anyway, maybe it's just that this has been part of our legislation for so many years, an argument in itself that the time has come to see if this court hits as it was originally meant to. Society has changed significantly in all these years. Odel law is an important part of our legal cultural heritage, but this in itself does not provide sufficient basis for maintaining the odelrights of our societies, as the Progress Party and the Right see it. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee organised a seminar on the law of the land as part of the work on the constitutional proposals. I would like to say that I think this was a good way to work on the matter, and a good way to work on the matter in the committee – that you just have that kind of professional seminar attached to an important constitutional proposal and get both sides of the case clarified. This gives you useful information and perhaps a broader understanding of the proposals. I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur who took the initiative in this matter, and to the committee that organised this seminar and this way of working on it. I could draw up several arguments from the seminar, but the most important thing I think is that it is quite clear that many of the reasons that have justified the law today are better addressed by other legal provisions, such as: the law of concession. This applies in particular after the ring that is not partially justified was significantly reduced in 2014. Odel law has been debated for many years, and today it is in many ways a strange phenomenon that is not similar in other Western countries. Odelsrecht hinders, as I see it, the development of the farm as an industry and place of residence. If agriculture is to have an important place in future Norway, it requires modernisation. It has been recognised by most, therefore, as mentioned, significant changes have also been made to the right to vote in 2014. It should therefore be recognised that the next natural step is to complete the exercise of the right of attorney. The future of agriculture depends on the initiative-rich, progressive and creative people who are given the opportunity to settle on agricultural properties and develop them in the light of the opportunities they see. In order to ensure settlement and increased diversity in rural areas, it should be easier to purchase small farms so that those who wish and are committed to farming can do so. A more active housing policy for those agricultural properties that are essentially a place to live is much more important for a living agriculture than maintaining the right to live. Several of the considerations that today's right of nobility and which are expressed by adherents of the law of nobility, as I have already pointed out, can be pursued through other instruments of an economic and legal nature, including the law of concession. Agriculture has a completely different function in our society today than it had at the time of the exercise of the right to vote. Many years ago, the right to vote had no doubt been justified, but in recent years there have been extremely large changes in agriculture and society – which means that we need to be able to ask questions whether it is still a practical institute to have. We agree that it should be possible to get professionally qualified people to establish themselves in agriculture. It must also be possible for a person who today leaves the agricultural school, who wants to invest in agriculture and who does not have the right to own or otherwise obtain agricultural property, to obtain an agricultural property on the market. The Progress Party and the Right argue for our proposal in the vote. So we're a supporter of helping to strengthen the ownership of farmers, so that they themselves can dispose of their own property by, for example, owning, renting or renting out all or part of the property at a market price. The Odel Act no longer contributes to an agreement between the owner and the user. Today, the area rented out amounts to 50 pst. Without the law, there may be greater convergence between ownership and user relationships in agriculture. A landowner is expected to take better care of the earth than a tenant. Furthermore, the Odel Act makes it difficult for an operating organisation other than an individual enterprise, since it is in practice impossible for impersonal users to obtain agricultural property. The law of the day keeps other new owners out and does not let go of those who could be interested in developing active ownership. This prevents optimum use of resources in society. But let me also point out that relative reasons are probably so strongly inherited for owners of agricultural properties that it will in any case be a long time before we see real changes, even if the law of nobility was to be repealed. Although the right to vote and to vote has long traditions in Norway, the time for change is overdue. The Odel Act in its present form is one of the many special property regulations that, as we see it, hinder future investment, natural structural changes, more profitable operation and increased investment capacity in agriculture. A more flexible odelslaw is one of the measures that can help modernise and increase profitability in Norwegian agriculture. Agriculture has been served by removing the ostrich provisions from the Constitution. On behalf of the Right and the Advance Party, I would like to address our proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e636	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e641	The question of the right to vote and to stand as a good or a bad idea is a question that touches on the long lines of Norwegian policy. There are in particular two things the odelinstitut has been decisive for: food supply from Norwegian resources and power distribution. In modern times, the Odel Institute entered the Constitution in 1814, but it has much longer traditions than that. Since the 1960s, Norway has had the right of nobility, which links the garden to the peasant family as self-owners. We decide on this already in the first Norwegian laws, such as Gulatingslova and Frostingslova. In most other European countries, we do not find this tradition. Here, the peasant family became more attached to the garden as a living property, and this slave-like system evolved into feudal communities and a strong concentration of power and wealth. In Norway, the Odelinstitute has, among other things, helped us to have a much smaller classed society — something that the government that always beats its chest for at different intervals. So Norway has become what it has become, for example. Thank you for this – a society of small differences. This different tradition – which the representative Leirstein thought was strange, then in a negative sense, understandably, based on his position – has had a significant impact on the social development of the different countries. We can see the difference in the concentration of food production and in the concentration of power in general in countries like France, large parts of Germany, England, etc. It is an effective barrier to capital deciding who owns the land – it prevents concentration of ownership. He is an effective guarantee that agriculture will be managed on its own — for example, in rural areas. through the construction and operation obligations — and for the entire concession system, on which the laws are based, with which he must be seen in conjunction. In our time, after important adjustments, he has also worked effectively to get more women into the peasantry. Norway is one of the world's highest female farmers. Furthermore, he has proved to be an effective mechanism for keeping knowledge and competence in the claims between generations. By moving the earth directly to the next generations, there is also an additional motivation to keep the earth fertile and to invest in the long term. At the same time, the Odel Institute is also limited — which makes it possible to get into agriculture without bulging. It cannot, therefore, be compared to the monarchy, which SV opposes. Without the Odel Institute, it won't be easier to get into agriculture, but it'll be more expensive to get in. The right-hand side has never been like the nobility institute, nor have the Danish during the Union period, nor have the Swedish. The Odel Institute has been attacked in various waves through history. Sometimes the two-thirds requirement has just prevented change. That's the idea behind the Constitution, that a scarcely multiple can't change some basic decisions – it needs more than that. So the Odel Institute has its legal place in the Constitution, that's part of the long lines in our history, not part of the short political lines. For conservatives, it should be easy to provide support to this Constitutional Decision. For socialists, it is easy to assume that the option is market liberalism — and that it has actually proved to be a success to prevent class division and power concentration. But for market liberals, who are neither concerned with the distribution of power and wealth nor want to learn the lessons of over a thousand years of historical success, there is only one thing to say in this case: neither did there become multiples this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e662	The proposal to abolish the protection of the fundamental rights was last addressed by the Stortingen exactly two years ago. The matter was also up in the winter of 2011, but none of the proposals received a majority, either a simple majority or a constitutional majority. The Christian People's Party has opposed the proposals earlier, and so are we today. We still want a special protection under the Constitution. We believe that this is important for Norwegian agriculture, and we believe that it is important for the country as such. The content of the Law of Goods has changed over time. The circulation of people with the right to vote has been adjusted from time to time, but there has not been a majority to remove the protection of fundamental law, which we think is good. The Christian People's Party will keep the law. It serves us well, in our opinion. Both the right of residence and the right of residence have long traditions in Norwegian history. The Odel Institute is a protection against capital forces and ensures that persons with interests and prerequisites for managing agricultural property and food production are able to do just that. The Fundamental Law Protection of the Odel Institute contributes to ensuring long-term sustainability. It ensures predictability and long-termity of the management responsibility of Norwegian farmers. This is a responsibility that goes beyond generations and over time. There is an important value in Norway. Odelrecht has long traditions in our country. At the same time, international law has been attacked several times. Nevertheless, it has survived, and it also survives the coagulant treatment today, and we think it is good. In Norway, we have independent, self-owned and free farmers. It is a characteristic of Norwegian agriculture that we have independent, self-owned and free farmers. The Christian People's Party believes that the Odel Institute is just contributing to the good management of agricultural property and food production. At the same time, it is also about the spread of power. By spreading the ownership of the land of the many, we get a spread of power. This is also a characteristic of Norway. It's been an important value for generations. The Christian People's Party wants us to continue to protect this. We believe that it is necessary to respect the wording of the Constitution. We therefore have a healthy, conservative position on the issue of osteoarthritis. We will maintain important values related to the operation of Norwegian agriculture, including: spreading the power and distribution of ownership of land is one of the important values we want to preserve. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring good recruitment to the agricultural industry. In that case, it is essential that the professional can have a viable income from his/her work. Secondly, the farmer, like everyone else, must be able to have a leisure time and a vacation. It is necessary to provide for good arrangements for generational change and for other acquisitions of agricultural property. New owners need to be stimulated to active ownership, operation and housing on the farm. But these are policies that come out of the foundation that we have in the Norwegian model of society, which has been developed through generations, with administrative responsibility as the guiding principle. So we see no reason to repeal the Constitutional Law as it stands today, and we therefore vote against the proposals and for a living agriculture with independent, self-ownership and free farmers all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e679	It was said by the rapporteur and others here that this is an old system, and that is true. There is also no new debate, and the Left has contributed to the debates in many majorities and in many proposals relating to constitutional changes. It has certainly been debated ever since the dawn of time, when it was laid down, because it is about principles that violate ideals. For the Left, as a liberal party, it is a fundamental idea that positions should not be inherited. The ability to carry out inheritance and an ever narrower succession as a distribution of positions in a democratic perspective is difficult to understand. Here it is argued that if the firstborn has a right of inheritance, it will lead to stronger democracy and better governance than if everyone in society has the opportunity. It's an argument we're not using in any other area of society, no matter what resources we manage. The former leader of the Left and Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim initiated some of the changes we have had in recent years in relation to agricultural regulations. In connection with the establishment of the Odel Law Committee, he stated that: ‘My scepticism to the law is that it can prevent the most motivated to live and live in the countryside. The Odel Act is an old-fashioned way to arrange the takeover of farms. Now we need to get motivated young people to the village of Norway. Then we have to have a debate on the law of nobility that is not just about timing and how many family members it covers, but about whether the law plays a role in modern society.’ It was in the Evening Post in 2003. When the representative Dag Terje Andersen asks why we are going to change something that works, we have to ask ourselves if it really works so well – when we see developments in Building Norway today and in my areas in Uppland. We have many inhabitants in many rural areas, but fewer and fewer people have a job related to agriculture. We see a highly ageing population, and it's hard to recruit young people back, or to recruit young people there. It is difficult for many young people who want to enter the industry. There's a lot of people out there who want to. I miss a lot of that debate in the speeches so far. How in the world are we going to get more in with energy and motivation? For someone who has a cultivated right, it also becomes a question of whether it is an obligation. Many go through that debate with themselves and the family — whether it is based on internal motivation or related to the behaviour of fathers and families. We must have great respect for that. But in Sweden, which does not have a law of nobility, we see that many farms are still being handed over within the family, so having a law of nobility that predicts the order of inheritance is not necessarily important. But the big challenge here is that it doesn't give others the opportunity to get in. It is one of the important debates relating to this matter. As far as the left is concerned, we are distinguishing between the right to vote and the right to sit down, and we are not going to remove the right to sit down. The most important thing for us is to remove the constitutional right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e699	Our agriculture is a jewel of Norwegian society. Agriculture is one of the cornerstones of what makes Norway Norway Norway, as the representative Dag Terje Andersen also said. There is often a lot of negative discussion about agriculture. However, what is important to say in this discussion is that agriculture as an agricultural sector and as a manufacturing industry in Norway are effective. It produces a lot of food. It produces good food. It represents food safety. It is important that Norway remains a decentralised society, as it ensures settlement and thus what is called the culture of society. That's why I start this article by saying that Norwegian agriculture is a jewel of Norwegian society. I record in this debate that the right parties are walking along their traditional historical line – the resistance to odelsrecht. That is, in the past — in the real past — they were not notorious opponents of it. But in one that can call modern Norway, there is a clear historical line in the right hand parties and on the right hand side of the struggle of Norwegian society against odelsrecht. What's the engine in that? Well, we hear some of the arguments here. But I think we should hang the so-called political bell on the cat. For what's the engine in the argument from the right is that they want the private ownership of agriculture, of course. So will we. But they don't want any regulation that puts capital outside the possibilities of buying up and taking over, so Norwegian agriculture can become an industry instead of a part of Norwegian society as a food producer and a cultural institution. That is what they are doing, including in this debate here. It's the historical attack – it's their intention. Family farming is to be eliminated. Funds and non-resident participations shall be collected. The protection of title in the Constitution must therefore be removed as a first step in changing the law of title in such a way that this can be done. I understand it very well from their point of view. If you have a liberal view of how to organise the social economy, this is one of the scandals that have to fall. So from the right-hand side, I understand why they're doing this. But then they should say they could. For example, I'm registering. that the representative, Mr Kjeseth, is talking about the weakness of agricultural employment. It is true that it has fallen, because agriculture manages the transition and manages to make itself more efficient within the current framework. But what was not said – but as I say – is that in those countries that do not have the right to vote and where agriculture is a major industry, they have even fewer employees than in Norway. It is a fact — it can be read from all the statistics in those countries that have a different model than the Norwegian one. And of course, this has a different purpose. It is the centralizing purpose, namely to create large units as part of the centralization project, so that the fight against osteoart falls into the great liberalist pattern for which the right parties stand. I've stopped wondering that the left throws itself on that line. They've accepted the right hand parts, and they've in a way become a right hand part, just like that. They say they're a liberal party, and a liberal party can be good enough, but they're essentially a right party. The point of view in this case is just a new example of where the Left is in its own historical development. They have always been against this – that’s right as it is said – but, with the arguments we hear now, we see where they are in the Norwegian political picture. It's just to register, but there's no reason why it shouldn't be said. I will conclude by saying that I am really very pleased and proud to say that Norwegian social democracy and the Workers' Party historically and today protect Norwegian agriculture. I am proud of that, because it has something to do with the large Norwegian construction works, and we do not want it to be demolished. Therefore, it is nice that what the right parties and the right side of Norwegian society want is not adopted today either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e716	Odel and tax havens are the main legal basis for ensuring a culture of ownership that provides long-term management and use of agricultural land. This occurs when the law is linked to statutory obligations for persons who are to acquire ownership of agricultural property. Very many decisions by the owner of an agricultural property are linked, for example, to: fertility in soil or for forestry. The decisions take place because it benefits the next generation. Investments are in many cases made despite agricultural policy, not because of agricultural policy. The person to take over, i.e. the one who has no part in many cases, will benefit from today's investment and use of agricultural land in perhaps 30-50 years' time. Odelslaw is therefore a law that promotes organic thinking. It's a forward-looking law, it's a modern law, and it's a thought we should have more of in several areas of society because it inspires to long-term. What is the issue of the right of attorney and of liability? Yes, the right to repurchase is granted to the descendants of a non-resident the right to purchase agricultural property from strangers in accordance with detailed rules. The purpose of the right of establishment is that the descendants of the nobility shall be able to remain in possession of the property, giving a discount to enable them to obtain a reasonable income from agricultural work. So it's directly related to the income of work related to soil and forest. The importance of title is that there is a fixed law that determines who can claim the property when the owner dies or the property otherwise changes its owner. So it gives predictability as to who is to be taken over, and predictability gives the one who has the best right to vote, the opportunity to prepare for the transfer through experience and education. It's not that the one who has the best right of nobility has an obligation to take over, but one has a right on the assumption that one fulfils the obligations – well, then there's a possibility. The title also provides for the possibility of retaining the property for the next generation to take over at a price that can be remunerated by the operation. So one can have the property undistributed when the income is so that an economical one can drive the farm forward. All persons in Norway may acquire agricultural property if they fulfil the obligations relating to ownership and all such persons may earn no part, regardless of age, sex, ethnicity, orientation or religion. So the odel right is not comparable to the monarchy's inheritance order, it's fundamental error. What is the greatest threat to the law of nobility? Well, it's a no-thing right, that is, we only have a right law without social obligations for the new owner who acquires ownership. Thus, the law can become an exclusive right for the few, and thus it also becomes a barrier for the many young people who are interested in running the farm and wanting to fulfil the obligations. Therefore, it is important to link the rights of nobility and the obligations of nobility, and it is the responsibility of the Storting to follow this up at all times. The second main threat to the law of nobility is a lack of profitability for the owner of the farm in operating the farm for his own account and risk. The consequence of the lack of profitability is that you go from owner to user to owner only, and that gives a large amount of rent. There is too much rent today, and what is the situation is that many large farms are also rented out, farms that no one a few years ago would think could not be operated for the owner's sake. There are farms that have names like Berg, Ås and Dal, what are the vineyards around Norway, the large farms that have all the prerequisites for running for the owner's account, and that until the rich time we are now, have also been run for the owner's account. When the Right, along with the Advance Party, says that there can be a better match between ownership and user relationships in agriculture without a law, it is a claim. It is an incorrect claim that does not have empirical evidence from other countries. It's just to look at the rest of the world, where the amount of rent is larger — and that's natural, because in very many of those countries, the payment for the use of land is also worse, and thus you get such property, combined with the law that has been there through historical times. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left are opponents of the odels- and the Right Party of the Odels Act, and the Right Party and the Progress Party are also opponents of the Agricultural Property Concession Act. Taking away the nobility and concession law means that there will be no claim for personal private ownership. So it's going to be an equal treatment with the impersonal companies, for example the limited companies, it's going to get one away from the tradition we've had with family agriculture as a form of ownership and use, a family agriculture that has a great ability to adapt to situations, a great ability to think long-term and a great ability to take responsibility for its own situation at all times and to cultivate important values in society at all times. By removing the law of nobility and concession, one also takes away the social obligations, such as personal living and personal suitability through education or experience. So the obligations are gone, we're getting rid of the personal private ownership, which many people set out as an example when talking about agricultural development in Norway versus other countries. The debate on the future of the law clarifies the ideological differences in Stortinget. The adherents of the law of no part are for personal private ownership with farm duties, and elected representatives in this system may affect the content of ownership. We have now established an important alliance between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party in the Committee, and I believe that the Red Party and the Green Party will support the proposals in the Chamber. It hasn't always been like that. It has not always been the case that the red parts of Stortinget have been the followers of the law of nodels. That's why it's a joyous development. In particular, the green parties have contributed to this because they have had a modern view that ownership must be linked to social obligations. Thus the alliance has been forged between the green and the red pole in the Stortinget. Those who are opponents of the Odel Act are represented by the Right Party and the Advance Party. They have a view that ownership of agricultural property may also be acquired by impersonal companies, even international companies which cannot be imposed on social obligations, whether personal or professional. That is why we are faced with an important ideological distinction in this matter, which shows the view of those parties which are based on economic liberalism, such as the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, who wish to remove the law of nobility. There are parties that historically promote participations differently. It's a long tradition that the party on the right has stood on this line. The Progress Party is now fully involved, and the Left goes further and further in the same direction – away from a tradition where one corrects ownership with a law, and there is no partial law and concession law central.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e742	On the brand days in May, we celebrate our democracy, the distribution of values in the country, and not least the importance of work. That's why I want to start just working. As the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, was so brilliant in saying, the law we have on how to manage the natural resources, and how to distribute the values, is one of the best and strongest instruments we have to prioritise the value of work rather than financial speculation. That's the truth, that's the core, and that's the essence of this debate. Because we see what economic liberalism leads to in countries by country, where the value of work is degraded, while more and more values are gathered among a few of the richest. And we see how important our laws are to make sure that young people too can have a future of work. When Sylvi Listhaug was Minister of Agriculture, it was one of her most prominent points to change how to determine the prices of properties. It turned out that it was more expensive to get an entrance ticket to work. When it becomes more expensive to get a farm to live on, we know what the result is – there are fewer who can have this kind of work. And as I said, we also celebrate our democracy in May. In many countries it has been seen that it has not been possible in practice to develop the same living democracy that we have in Norway, and it is also about the fact that ownership of natural resources has often been collected in a few hands and in a small elite. In Norway, we had no part; in other countries, we have no part. That's the practical difference. And if we think of an area of the world like South America, it's just the concentration of power over property that has made it very difficult for ordinary people to participate in social development, rule over it and have a legitimate share of the values created. The representative, Leirstein, said something interesting in his article. He believed that the concession laws could in practice help to provide the points that I brought here. But then the representative forgot to say that the Progress Party will also remove the concession laws. So this is not just a debate about one part of our legislation relating to natural resources and soil – no, it's a fundamental ideological debate on how to manage our natural resources and how to distribute their values. This type of legislation will only prove to be more important and more forward-looking than ever at a time when multinational companies are increasingly trying to take control of values across our borders. It is then worrying that a party like the Left does not see that there are some important Norwegian values that are actually at stake in this debate. There must be many former members of that party who are asking great questions about where the struggle for democracy and the distribution of natural resources actually went, in everything we have seen of the liberalist development of the Left Party. In Norway, we have had personalities like Johan Castberg, who represented the Workers' Democrats, but who were very ahead of their time in fighting for the allocation of values from the natural resources. We need more of that kind of forward-looking thinking, not a market liberalism that has failed in more and more parts of the world, and as we see, there is a shortage of work and, not least, increasing differences between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e759	I feel it's very natural to start at the last speaker's rounding, with the father of the concession laws, Johan Castberg, who was from my hometown, Gjøvik. He was in government with a Left Leader and Prime Minister, Gunnar Knudsen, who was also concerned about keeping resources in check. It was also Castberg. He did not go in front of establishing the concession laws, which the left would still retain, so that the resources would not be in operation. He didn't go in for it because Norwegian towns were going to grow again. The same is true today: what we have to manage must be in line with the time. This also applies to policy. From the left's point of view, this is more about having a law that preserves, than a law that helps to develop. That's exactly what we're seeing right now. That's when the post from representative Martin Kolberg comes to the heart of what it's all about: the more frozen pizza and the fewer freshware dishes we get in Norwegian food shops, the less right the representative will get Kolberg. It is in the middle of the debate we are having on governance and how we are going to organise these resources. Now the three major major players are about to gain enormous power over Norwegian agriculture, and there is a development we cannot sit and watch. We're going to have to introduce concessions soon to drive wholesale links. So the three have all the outlets for food in Norway. There will be fewer and fewer fresh dishes and more and more refrigerators. We will soon see only such large ‘racks’. This is also part of the trends we have in agriculture, because there is too little innovation and too few ideas for development. Thus, the centralization of itself happens when we're in the path we're in now. From a Norwegian cost level, we see that it keeps prices down – of course – but it also has to do with how we organise trade policy. For the left, we're still going to keep the concession laws. It's important. With them, we can regulate a lot of what this debate is about. If we go back to the 1990s, I was quite committed to this, from a youth policy perspective. We then asked many of the municipalities about how many were put off for the five-year period we had at the time on the accommodation and duty of service and on the concession. Quite consistently, we got the answer that it got many very easy. Then it goes 5, 10 and 15 years without anything happening on the farms. This means that the older and older drivers are waiting for a transfer, while the younger generation also sits and waits for more income outside agriculture. This is part of what we now see out in the countryside – the knit is made longer and longer, waiting for something. But no one wants to take any major steps to secure investment — what happens to agricultural technology now, where there is quite a huge investment gap associated with using new technologies. This is a major challenge for the traditional channelling that structural policy has had in Norway, which I fully agree is very important, but which is now drawing a lot of production out of the districts and down to the central agricultural areas, because there is a lot of land in play, there are many resources that are not run by them as owners. So there's a structural change outside our control, and that's what we have to hang in again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e772	There are good reasons, on both sides of this case, to agree on something with the blue and the dark blue and the light blue, because there is a point that many very agriculturally interested people have problems getting a use. However, this can be partially addressed through concession requirements for use on sale. Nevertheless, there is a small point; we shall honestly admit that, but the disadvantages, the dangers of removing the pillars of Norwegian agriculture, more than offset this. Let's compare a little bit with Denmark. They are members of the EU. It doesn't make matters any better, because here it's been free for a structural change and a system change that has made the old farmer a farm boy on previous property. A farmer in Denmark said this: Danish farmers can become tractor drivers for non-resident capital funds. About 1970 was 55 pst. of Danish food sold abroad. Now it's closer to 90 pst. We have seen a large-scale industrialisation and capitalisation in Danish agriculture. In January 2015, Danish agriculture debt amounted to 371 billion. kr. The profitability of small and medium-sized applications has fallen sharply. The question then is: how much has the absence of the right of nobility and the right of residence, as we know it in Norway, had to say in this picture? I see it as the removal of the right to vote and to sit down is part of the measures that the right parties are trying to get through in Norwegian agriculture. We are seeing this time and again in relation to the positions in the agricultural sector. They think quantity more than quality, social responsibility for self-sufficiency and production, sustainability and long-term sustainability, which should be the goal. That is perhaps the very word – the keyword ‘long-term’ – that is the very bearer of agriculture and odelsinstitute, as we know it in Norway. It's nice to tell you to give up the farm in a better constitution than when you took it over. Of course you do. It should almost just be lacking that the farm should not have increased in value, improved, improved during a generation. It is precisely this principle and the saying that the odelinstitute ensures and fulfills. I could not agree more with Mr Kolberg in his analysis. We don't want funds investing in Norwegian agriculture to get an industrialisation development. Here, in some ways, the right parties break with the classic property, the right to run their own land. Now they don't defend ownership, but the right to trade with land gradually, trade with use as with property in the city. Then I think quite simply that for those agriculturalists who want to dig in the ground, they want to develop their interests and get a piece of land, they don't get any easier, but actually harder than today, even without no good. Norwegian agriculture's unique model of family farming would become history if the draft Constitutional Amendment had been adopted. With all the weaknesses we can see in agricultural development in Norway, it has been a success for a long time, for the districts and for the settlement. I have to say, I think it is a bold proposal, and I think it is very little in line with the general opinion of the people and not least with the feeling of rural and of course of the farmers themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e787	It is entirely permissible to have a different view of the nodel law, but when the argument is as it is today, that one has to remove the nodel law in order for other rules to secure agriculture, the dilemma is that both the Right Party and the Progress Party have gone to break away many of the rules that guarantee a farm with a varied structure of use throughout the country. Left says no new ones will be added to the channel. It is not odelslova that is the biggest problem for young people to get into the industry today. There are actually four out of ten uses that are sold outside the genus. Today, the big challenge for those with an interest and a desire for education, but not economics, is that there are other interests behind the purchase of many of the gardeners coming on free sale. It's because one has opened up. It was a matter of getting an exemption. In that case, a person must do something about bus and bus and bus and bus and coaching obligations, and with the concession law, to make stricter requirements for those to take over. There's something that can help with this, not to remove the laws of nobility. It must be profitable so that those who want have the ability to drive the garden. When it is said that there is less in freshware disks because of the laws of no part, I have to cheat on where the representative has been. The challenge today is concentration in the commercial sector, in the distribution industry. Today, one knows that many of those who run stores have both capital and a desire to go all the way back in the value chain and to manage and control the value chain from the use of the garden and all the way forward. At least it won't give you any greater variety, it'll give you less. There are enough farmers who have invested in niche production, local food production and other things, but they have to come out. Their challenge is the struggle with the big chains that rule. Would the Left really be willing to agree to a greater degree? Take Gjøvik as an example – there has been a local initiative on stimulation packages on the initiative of the Center Party. This has led to a small drop-out of gardeners there. But it has to be profitable if you're going to be able to lift this. I would have appreciated if one was a little bit more honest in the approach. That one has a fundamental resistance to the nodel laws, I think I'm quite fine, but one has to try to be clear about what one wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e802	I just want to make a brief comment. We deal with two proposals to abolish the right of nobility and liability, § 117 from the Right and the Left. From the Right there were six representatives who were behind it, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Michael Tetzschner, Svein Flätten, Anders B. Werp, Olemic Thommessen and Ingjerd Schou. Three of them are representatives today. What is very special is that no representatives of the Right have spoken in this debate. Perhaps the proposal to repeal Section 117, the right of no part and the right of residence, will not be repeated for the next major period. The force against the law of nobility in the Right is at least not present in today's magnificence. The rapporteur, Mr Tetzschner, does not take the floor and has left the Chamber before the debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e809	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e825	I refer to the present position and the majority there, which I also represent. It concerns the use of the State's defence power on foreign land, where it is a majority opposed to the proposed constitutional amendment. The background for that is that we have a system that has worked for very many years, and as many people say works fine. Nevertheless, I would say that the majority's position is not an arrogant rejection or a denial of any of the background to the proposal being raised, and that is also stated in the remarks in the vote. It is noted in the comments that there is a consensus that there is a topical issue to discuss whether today’s practice meets the requirement for consent — or rather whether it can be adequately demonstrated that the Storting has given its consent. The consent of the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is what is going on and has worked – when it is not a liner, which does not require consent. DUUFK takes a decision and agrees with the government's proposal, but it cannot be documented. It is a problem that is worth looking at, whether a citizen can come up with a form that makes it possible for a citizen in Norway to ask where the decision on the consent of the Storting is, in fact, to be documented. That's a democratic question. Then there are several questions that make it relevant to discuss the Constitution § 25. In the case of both ‘lined-up’ and ‘land protection’, there are terms used in the relevant constitutional paragraph but removed by the adoption of the Defence Act in 2016 from the vocabulary currently used by and about the Defence. It's important, of course, to mention previous discussions on the updating of languages, that we actually use terms that make it clear what is the government's responsibility unabated, and what the Storting is going to give its consent to. Some would argue that there could generally be a basis for a more open debate, in plenary, than what we have had in Norway. That's another discussion. The fact that the military concepts have changed makes it possible to discuss the wording of the Constitution, whether it is relevant for the future in the sense that the concepts used there are no longer in use in everyday life and in the defence law. Whenever we go against the change that is proposed here, there are several reasons for that. First, to the extent that you want to make a change in the real relationship between government and greatness, we must at least be aware of what kind of foreign activity we are talking about, and get clear boundaries in that regard. Another thing is that the proposers have said that that kind of debate should take place in closed meetings in Stortinget. If I were to propose to change that paragraph, I would rather suggest that there should be a meeting in Stortinget, and then the Stortinget defined whether the meeting should be closed or not – to take some examples of the reason why the proposal we are considering today is not supported. I stress that there are parts of foreign activity to which consent from the Storting must be given today, and that that practice has worked until today. But for the sake of what I have now referred to, changing the use of words and the question of documentability on the consent of Storting, I would like us to have a discussion about it in the future, either in the form of discussing Section 25 of the Constitution itself and more modern and precise wordings there – not necessarily to change practice, but to clarify practice – or possibly also in the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, which says something about how the Storting should deal with its matters. One could also imagine that one specified what was agreed from Stortinget when it is relevant. In conclusion, however, the position is that the proposal is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e838	One road usually has two ditches. If you don't have a bad course, you can risk getting in both. If you say that starting a war based on text messages is one ditch, you can argue that legitimizing the procedure is the other ditch. The parties behind the proposal were even in the government when we sent bombers to Libya in 2011 and started that operation on SMS. We were also the best in NATO at the time of the bombing, we said, something that delighted me since I normally worked in the Defense and have done it since I was 17 years old, when I don't have the opportunity to meet in this house again and again. Now we're at risk of going into the other ditch and basic law case, when there's probably a lot of good solutions in the middle of that road. We have a well-established practice, which the previous speaker had in mind. It can be expanded, and it should definitely be thoroughly investigated before we make any decision. There's a lot of alternatives. It can be done in law or perhaps more topically as part of Storting's Rules of Procedure. It gets a thorough investigation to give the answer. War is serious, but I've never experienced politicians, or military leaders for the cause, who haven't looked at what we're doing, with the greatest seriousness, but sent soldiers into battle and risked their lives for Norwegian security interests without it being very thoroughly treated. In a few cases, I have seen that it makes a deep personal impression on the decision-makers who are behind this. So I'm not worried that we're not going to treat it seriously. The use of military forces is under the executive power and the prerogative of the government. It is clearly stated in the Basic Law § 25. It is also an important point that we need to be able to support our allies and participate jointly in NATO and in other contexts quickly when something happens. The possible consequences of this proposal should be carefully assessed in view of such a procedure and the need for a rapid response in crisis situations. The proposal is unclear on a number of points. I'll mention someone to illustrate that. It is true that the proposal will not rock our NATO commitments, but there is nothing about how these NATO commitments are to be interpreted and how we are to deal with them. There will be an innumerable case where we have to go into what this means in practice. I can give you some examples. What if the Norwegian intelligence service provides information to an operation that is the basis for attacks by other nations? Is it covered by this bill, and is there at all a matter that should be discussed in detail by the Storting? We should take a closer look at that. There are a lot of variations of support you can give. If we provide logistical support or technical support, is that part of this proposal? I don't know, and I'm pretty sure no one else knows for sure. How large should such support be? If we provide support with individuals or experts, is it covered by the proposal? Everyone might have a clear picture when we send ground forces fighting, or we send fighter planes as bombs. Then the matter is very clear. What if we just send information? I mentioned the intelligence service. It could be radar information, it could be any kind of information. In these days, information wars and fake news are a quite significant threat. If we contribute to dealing with it, are we part of it? I don't know. So I'm a little uncertain about what types of operations this proposal covers. A former government for many years denied that we were at war in Afghanistan, despite the fact that we had great forces there, and these forces were participants in the most serious struggles we have been involved in since World War II. But it was not a war after that government's assessment, and I am still uncertain whether that kind of activity should be covered by this proposal. I could probably still quite long with this listing, but I can well conclude that the idea behind the proposal is good. The proposal as it says is not good, and we should discuss the matter further, because this is serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e857	I take the floor to argue against the view of the present Constitution expressed by the Committee in its comments. I aim for what has been inserted on page 2 of the setting, column 2. This is the provision, as the Committee sees § 25 today. It says: ‘The provision states that consent of the Storting is required if troops are to be sent abroad’. The well-established consultation system that we have between the Government of the Council of State and the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is then discussed. But it's also pretty unexplained. And again, at the bottom of the remarks, having regard to the consultation system I referred to, it follows that ‘this does not make visible the consent of the Stortning in the form of a protocoled decision’. The Committee has therefore assumed that there is a system of consent involving the Storting and that the Storting should take a positive decision to consent to foreign operations. This is not how the Basic Law can be read. It is originally a rule of competence between the government as the leader of the defence force and a restriction on the use of this defence force, saying that if one were to provide for the ten oldest classes of years, which were then the protection of the land, the consent of the Storting had to be given. Historically, the intention was that the Swedish king would not risk having Norwegian forces in foreign operations, which might serve Swedish interests more than Norwegian ones. For this reason, it has always been argued that the youngest classes of the year, what is called the ‘lined forces’, have been applicable to the defence force. By the 2016 defence laws, this distinction became meaningless, but it does not mean that it would be right for the Committee to refer to a general system of consent that does not exist. Then you can discuss whether to give clarifications that will enable you to realize the purpose of the original constitutional regulation in a better way today, which is consistent with the current organisation of the defence, but that's another question. I must also say, from this pulpit, that it is unsatisfactory that the Committee cannot use any more force to present what is today's law, the meaning of the Constitutional Law, before we have to have a meaningful discussion on the amendments to the same paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e873	Few things, if any, are as serious as when a country decides to use military action against another nation. Such decisions are fortunately far apart. However, like the proposers, I think it is necessary for us in Stortinget to have better control over the use of our Norwegian defence forces. In 2001, when Norwegian soldiers were sent to Afghanistan in the U.S.-led operation Enduring Freedom, it happened after the Storting had discussed the matter, but not settled. Nor was it the case when Norwegian troops were sent to Iraq or Libya. In Norway, a government does not have to go about the Storting to go to war against someone or participate in military operations. The reason for this is that in Norway it is decided to go to armed conflict or war one of the few royal prerogatives that are left without the Storting being able to interfere. That is, of course, the Storting can interfere. They may know what they want about the decision, and they may be against it, but a decision to go to war does not come up to resolution here in the Storting. This is what this is all about: should we, like an open, democratic country, which is otherwise debating and adopting most of what is possible or impossible to adopt here in the staging room, have a practice in the future in which the government actually has to enter the top elected body here to the country in order to have a decision on which military use is anchored? When the U.S. went into action against Syria in 2013, something new happened. President Barack Obama had taken the decision that he would use military power and other methods to engage in action against Syrian targets. At the same time, he said on 31 August 2013 that he would seek authorisation for the use of power by the American people via the representatives of Congress. He thought the country would stand stronger by anchoring this in Congress, and he said that those who were sent out in the war would become stronger when they knew they had the people in their backs. In relation to the proposal put forward by the Central Party in this matter, the plurality suggests that contacts between government and magnification have been established, but nowhere can find a written link to this contact. There are no protocols to see if they were mixed or not. I think that as a country it would have strengthened whether we had had a formal anchoring and a practice that allowed the Stortinget to also have made decisions when we send Norwegian women and men into battle. Yes, because I think we owe this to our troops. Every soldier we send out into war and armed conflict should have the backing that a decision can give from us in the Storting. Every mother, father, or spouse who sees her daughter's or her son being sent out to serve the country should know that the mission comes from Stortinget. Each representative of the population who argues against or opposes participation in war and conflict should be aware of the responsibility we have for our citizens, and that is what this is ultimately about. With that, I take up the proposal from the minority in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e890	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has drawn up the proposal he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e895	First, I want to say it's positive, the signals that come from both the Labour Party and the Advance Party, that one wants to look at today's practice. There is no formal link between the Storting, which is the elected body, and the government when it is determined to go to war outside the country. It's problematic. That's the way it is -- in a democracy, it's problematic. Other countries have rules for this, they can handle it. It is obvious that there should be a clear solution here, because since we have democracy in Norway, one should see it as constitutionally problematic that such an important decision does not have any form of formal democratic anchoring. So that's whether this is after the intention of the Constitution. Then you can go into a proper reading of Sections 25 and 26 of the Constitution and the various discussions that have been around it, for example. The discussion of Norwegian participation in foreign war falls within or outside the constitutional one-right of the government, the prerogative, to command the Norwegian defence, i.e. whether the government has a constitutional foundation in the practice established. Here's a lot of different opinions. Paragraph 25, second paragraph, states: ‘Land protection and other non-linear clusters must never be used outside the national boundaries without the consent of the Storting.’ There have been some significant clarifications of this question. For example, on 27 November 2001, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave a ruling to the Government of Bondevik II on Norwegian participation in the Afghanistan War. They concluded that this had already been an established practice since the 1950s. Therefore, a Basic Law had to be seen in that light. It was also stated on questions to the Constitutional Department here in Stortinget that there was a practice that we now had to adhere to. So we can stand in a situation where the purpose of the Constitution is not followed up by practice. If, in addition, we might be a few that there is a constitutional problem in itself that such important decisions do not have a formal democratic anchoring, it is very good that the Workers' Party and also the Progress Party are now opening up to a discussion in this process of enlargement which hopefully will lead to a new proposal that can bring together a multiple. We are all certain that the formal system should not prevent an effective response to some situation, but it should ensure democratic anchoring. Then I think the point that we owe Norwegian soldiers is big. To the situation we're in now, looking at the head, we can end up in a situation where a minority, like a minority government, decides to go to war without the people, that is, the Stortinge, supporting it. What is a practice? We can't live with that. When it comes to it, – with the consent arrangements that we have in Norway – can hardly happen, but formally, there is nothing in the way that can actually happen. If the Basic Law is the most important instrument we have for the long lines of Norway, one must be able to take height for all such eventualities. Something else is simply not to live with. So to the more technical around the proposal. The proposed basic law proposal is not SV's primary solution to this problem. We want both a decision and an open debate in Stortinget. That means that – as I believe everyone can be with and sign – there is hardly a more important and more serious decision a country can take than going to war, and we are a democracy. We must then facilitate that decision to go through an open, democratic debate, with the following decisions. It's SV's primary policy. This proposal only opens up for adoption at Stortinget. But we support the proposal, which is the right step on the road. We believe this is definitely the right way to go, where the minimum must be a democratic anchoring. Then it's in another area that -- he or she who reads notes closely, will see it -- SV and the center part separate layers. It's about the Center Party making an exception for NATO, i.e. that, if war is intended by NATO, no decision is necessary. What we think is an unnecessary erosion of the democratic principle. We disagree with that -- we're not on that note. We can only show that other countries, including NATO allied countries, have these kinds of arrangements in the Constitution and follow this up in practice — even when they are related to NATO. At the same time, we believe that there should be a security valve in the Constitution that guarantees that the government has the opportunity to act quickly even outside the border, if it would be necessary in an explicit intention to ensure the defence of Norwegian borders, such as one. it is in the Danish constitution. So this security valve does not apply if Norway is called to participate in operations that are not explicitly related to the defence of Norway's borders. We believe that today's proposal is somewhat controversial. I have tried to understand the implications of the counter-arguments, but this is a constitutional property, and the constitutional owners are followed up by establishing rules. Not all eventualities can be provided by the proposal itself. We do not write any laws or regulations when we have a constitutional treatment. It is necessary to follow up on this in practice. I think the proposal is a little controversial. Our Nabolanda have such legends, a number of our NATO allies do too. The proposal is a way of ensuring the democratic anchoring of a serious decision and giving soldiers who are abroad on a Norwegian mission a guarantee that they have democracy in their backs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e930	The use of foreign land defence is a symbolic debate to have in this Chamber today, on the 8th of May, on the day of liberation and veto – the day of release from the fighting actions on Norwegian soil, the day of veto for all those who have made an effort on behalf of Norway abroad, on foreign land. Yes, it's one thing we're going to treat with great seriousness always, and just today on this important day for our country. It is now established practice that the government can send Norwegian soldiers abroad without a formal decision on the basis of which the decision was taken. This is a problem for the proposers, and the proposal argues that it is the Stortinget and not the government that will take a final decision on such a matter. Today's practice has a reference, as has already been said, in the Constitutional Law, Section 25, which states that the King has the highest command of the state's land and sea power and Section 26, which states that the King has the right to summon troops and start war in the country's defense. For the purposes of the second paragraph of Section 25 of the Basic Law: ‘The protection of the land and the other troops that cannot be attributed to the liners must never be used outside the borders of the State without the consent of the Stortinge.’ The provision states that consent of the Storting is required if troops are to be sent abroad. However, contacts are currently established between the government and the Stortning regarding the use of the country’s defence power in armed conflict abroad. There are procedures for this that work today. Nevertheless, the proposers are right – in our opinion – that one of the practices we have today does not make visible the consent of the Stortning in the form of a protocoled decision. The proposal we are discussing here today is therefore aimed at establishing a permanent procedure that ensures popular governance and control through protocol-based decisions. I agree with the proposers in what is an important principle of principle here, the principle of popular control, and not least that it is important to have clear procedures when dealing with issues of such importance. The decision to participate in the war is very important, and it is not least important that the soldiers we send out on mission should know that they have the whole country in their backs. They need to know that they have the Storing and the government in their backs, and that we fully support our troops in the problems we put them in. It's important to underline this. It will in any case be that when we send Norwegian soldiers on missions abroad, it is anchored both in the Stortinget and in the government. That's the way it is today, and that's the way it has to be. The formulations proposed by the minority raise a number of questions. It's e.g. unclear how the provisions are to be dealt with in the light of Article 5 of the NATO Treaty and the extent to which participation will be required before the consent of the Storting. Questions may also be asked as to whether it should be laid down in the Constitution that the Storting's treatment of any participation in armed action should be carried out in a closed meeting. It may well be appropriate to decide this on a case-by-case basis. The system and the procedures we have today for resolving the question work well in our opinion. We don't see any serious reasons to legislate a change in today's practice. The Christian People's Party believes that we should follow the constitutional practices established and recognised by both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Constitutional Department of the Stortinget. We therefore support the Committee's recommendation and vote against the proposal of the Central Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e954	I would like to thank the Central Party for an important constitutional proposal to amend the Constitution § 25, on the use of the State's defence power on foreign land. Red will support the proposal, and we will do so for several reasons. Firstly, the proposal means that governments can no longer send Norwegian troops to war abroad without the consent of the Stortinget by formal decision. The derogation will be when Article 5 of NATO is triggered by an attack on a NATO country. Getting a formalized government-enlargement relationship in connection with Norwegian warfare abroad is an important step forward, because going to war is a serious decision. Norway is a country with limited defence capabilities. We have to use that capacity primarily in defense of the country. In addition, we are a very small country. It is of vital interest to Norway as an independent country that we are committed to ensuring an international system where the threshold for militaryly superior states to resort to the small is as high as possible. And today, May 8, is a good day to remember that international law is Norway's first line defense, and that any military use of power that violates international law also undermines the defence of Norway. Today, an easy military round goes primarily beyond the countries under attack and the neighbourhoods that are being destabilised. At the same time, a policy that normalizes the abuse of major powers against small states will quickly hit us in the next round, as we saw in 1940. Therefore, the day of release is a good opportunity to support the Constitutional proposal, which provides a more thorough decision-making process and better opportunity to ensure that Norwegian military missions abroad do not contribute to undermining Norway’s first line defence, namely international law. There is also another important reason why this draft constitution is more necessary now than before. During the first 50 post-war years, Norway hardly participated in a single war of aggression. We were known in the world as a nation of peace. In the last 20 years, there has been a dramatic change in Norwegian foreign and defence policy, which has taken place without anchor in the opinions of the population, and often has also been based on misinformation from our allies. A little illustrates the need for better decisions on the use of military power better than the cases where the United States has invaded Norway abroad, as we have seen in the last 10–15 years, in several countries. Most people here remember the lies about Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, which were the pretext of the extremely destructive, destructive and illegal war against Iraq. The rise of the Libyan War was also marked by similar war propaganda, which has since been refuted by both the United States military and the British Parliament's Libyan investigation. When Norway was drawn into the Libyan war, the United States vowed highly and sacredly that the intervention against Libya would not at all mean taking care of the conflict, and would certainly not contribute to a change of regime. Unfortunately, the opposite was true. It is likely that the government of Norway and Norway were never told that the insurgency with which NATO cooperated to conquer the Libyan capital was led by an Islamic terrorist leader with a background from Al Qaida. Documents from the U.S. Embassy in Oslo, released by WikiLeaks, also show that the United States led Norwegian politicians when they tried to lure Norway into increasing their war participation in Afghanistan with claims of military and political progress that the Americans knew did not agree with the reality. In the last few weeks, it has also been revealed that the government has not provided the Stortinget and the population with the correct information on the premises of Norway’s risky interference in the unbridled and dangerous Syrian war. Red wants a responsible Norwegian security policy that puts Norway’s security interests, international law and solidarity ahead of military intervention adventures and the US geopolitical interests. That's what we wanted to share with a majority of the population in Norway, whether there are different opinions about how we best achieve that goal. In our view, the best way to ensure the responsible use of Norway's defence power is, in line with our interests and international law, to demand open wholesale treatment when decisions are to be taken. So the Central Party's constitution does not guarantee that the population is given full transparency. However, the proposal ensures that participation in war must be anchored in the Storting and allows for a debate in which arguments for war can be tested against other facts and judgements. It provides a better decision-making process so that decisions on war and peace are taken on the best possible basis and in line with Norway’s interests and international law, and it should therefore be for all those who take Norway’s security seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e979	When Israel invaded South Lebanon in 1978 in response to terrorist acts by Palestinian groups, the UN acted very quickly. Tuesday in the Easter week, the formal request for Norway was able to contribute with soldiers. King Olav and Prime Minister Odvar Nordli were on Easter holidays in the mountains, and the foreign minister was in China. Neither the king nor the prime minister had a telephone call on the cabin. After all, it was 1978. Already the next day, Wednesday before the cutthroat day, ten out of fifteen state councils were in place when the Council of State was set at 1 p.m. 11th@item: inlistbox On Thursday, the first Norwegian officer traveled to Lebanon to get to know the situation. Already on the first Tuesday after Easter, the officers and soldiers of the Norwegian emergency battalion met up on the Gardermoen. One week later, the first Norwegian soldiers in Lebanon were ready to solve their mission — an impressive effort taking time into account. The war between Israel and the PLO was in addition to the Lebanese Civil War. So there were two warriors in this country at the same time. The situation of the Lebanese was critical. Paragraph 25 of the Constitution allowed the government to put the Norwegian United Nations Battalion at the disposal of the United Nations at very short notice. If the Central Party's constitutional proposals are adopted, it will not be possible for Norway to participate as quickly as possible in international crises. I agree with the Central Party that sending Norwegian soldiers to war abroad is a serious decision. I also agree that there should be a general understanding of the mission as far as possible. But to legislate that there should be a debate in advance is not lucky if we are to help where crises arise. Most of the 40 operations that Norway has been involved in since World War II have been marked by crises. At the same time, we have to bring with us the constitutional distinction between big business and government. Today it's May 8th. This is not only the day of release, but also the national veto date, which is to honor all Norwegian women and men who have served Norway abroad. Sending Norwegian soldiers – young women and men, our sons and daughters – to war is a very serious decision. Someone's gonna die. A good deal of people get mental problems from the strong experiences of war. It's important to me that the accumulation and government constantly have the people who are going into international operations with them in all their judgements before the decisions are made. If we can't afford to give the soldiers a good follow-up when they get home, they won't be involved in international operations either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e995	As several speakers have said, this is an unusually important discussion of one of the biggest and most important decisions that can be taken, and I am pleased that we have this debate. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee is so clearly in favour of not supporting the proposal that has been put forward. The reason for this was not least brought forward by the case rapporteur, Dag Terje Andersen, also from the Workers' Party, but I would like to stress a little from the experience I have myself. As Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence and in other roles, I have followed that dialogue and the way it is done, quite closely. I don't think it's always completely understood by those who haven't been there. Because there is a fairly solid and proper communication between the government at all times and the opposition at all times, where the government is given the opportunity to share views, judgements, insights and information that it has by virtue of being the executive authority, and listen to the advice and input given in a confidential context, where one can also talk about things that will not be suitable for a larger assembly – not to talk about in public – and it is very often about processes that take time, where there is not a single decision that suddenly arises, but where a situation develops over time, and where action is taken over time. I have experienced it as very reassuring from a government post, and I think that when you experience the same thing from an opposition post, you feel that you have an intervention in what is happening. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that when this is described as a discussion of participation in war, it is only extremely rare it makes sense to say that Norway goes to war or participates in a war, if war means war between states, which is the more traditional legal definition. There are many other things we do. Sometimes we are in sharp, dramatic, dangerous assignments in internal conflicts. Many will call it war by popular concept, but it's not war by lawyers' opinion, because we don't have another state on the other side of this. In other cases, there may be a preventive deployment in a situation that has not yet evolved into conflict or war, a kind of confirmation of future support. There may also be intelligence operations which, by their very nature, are not suitable for wider dialogue, and it may be training for other countries' forces. So it's a wide range that's being discussed in this format. So it gives the government a sense of security about where you're related to the other parties on the Stortinget, a kind of understanding of what kind of support is there for some of the most difficult choices to make, but it happens at the same time without binding on the Stortinget. I believe that when it comes to thinking about this – and there are many reasons to think about it further in view of the future and new challenges – I would at least say quite strongly from this speaker that respect for the difference between executive and legislative power is quite important. If it gets messed up, the Storting will apparently achieve at the same time being a kind of executive, but without being able to keep the control function that you want, because you also have to be set to control yourself. What if the decision taken with the consent of the Storting is wrong – who should point it out later? So to the important questions that the representative Moxnes raised when using military power. There are many questions there that are also asked by others. But I believe that it is clearly up to the government to ensure that, first of all, one is in line with international law, that is, what can be called jus ad bellum, in view of when it is right to go to war – it is a responsibility the government has internationally, but also a responsibility the government can be said to have towards the people of Norway, through the Stortinget – and, secondly, of course, to follow humanitarian law, namely in bello, in view of how war is being waged. You don't strengthen it by moving the decision to Stortinget. What I'm saying is that, like the Workers' Party, I strongly, clearly and clearly support the majority vote that the proposal is rejected. I would like to welcome the debate, and I mean to send a little signal to the further consideration of this that we must bear in mind the fundamental distinction between big business and government in such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1012	What we are discussing now is a proposal from three representatives of the Central Party and a former representative of the Progress Party, Helge Thorheim. The background to the proposal is the use of Norwegian defence powers abroad in recent years, with examples from Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya. The aim of the proposal is to clarify the current section 25 of the Constitution. That paragraph says, as the majority also says, that it requires the consent of the Storting if troops are to be sent abroad. The majority point to the fact that there is today an established contact between the government and the Storting regarding the use of the country’s defence power in the armed conflict abroad, but that it does not make visible the consent of the Storting in the form of a protocoled decision. Yes, it is precisely the wording that has contributed to the proposal being raised. We can't have it like that. That's not how we can practice the consent of the Storting. The centre party is a strong defence party, no one is in doubt about it, but we may also be the defence party that has the greatest respect for war. That's something we've learned. We are a strong defence party with great respect for war. Some of us have learned that through the inheritance we have received. This is a very serious matter, and therefore the proposal has been taken up. We have promoted the draft constitution in two variants. It's option 2 we're now proposing, which is: ‘The defence authority of the Kingdom shall not be used outside the borders of the State without the consent of the Stortinge in a closed meeting.’; With that proposal, we will have a much stronger democratic anchor. We will have a major debate which will give the resolution the seriousness it deserves, and each representative will have to vote and support his view. I would say that it would give a whole new situation in relation to today's practice. If we had had such a paragraph, Norway's participation in war, for example in Libya, might have another outcome, a participation in war which, in my opinion, was a major error. We in the Center Party see that this should naturally be a closed conference. It is also within our democracy situations where our elected representatives must take the debate in the closed forums. If we had not proposed the closed forum, it would have been strongly argued that there is a need for it in the situations we are facing, because there are crisis situations. I am pleased with the support given to the proposal, in the sense that the committee chairman, representative Dag Terje Andersen, said it was worth looking at. The representative Karlsen of the Progress Party said that the idea is good, the proposal is not good, it has to be investigated in more detail, and then it was a problematization about what is war, and what kind of operations we're going to have within what we're now talking about, i.e. who should be covered by that definition. In short, the proposal is very clear in this area: it is the use of defence power beyond the borders of the country. One can maritimely problematize it in the knowledge and the broad, but I think there's a fairly clear understanding out there among people of what it means to use defence power beyond the borders of the country. Erlend Larsen said that with the proposal of the Center Party it is not possible to participate as quickly as necessary, because it is a matter of crisis. Yes, precisely – it is important to have clear rules in crisis situations. That's when it's important to keep your head cold. That's when it's important to make decisions that have the necessary anchoring, because in retrospect we see many situations in which decisions have been made in crises that were not wise, because one did not have such clarifying rules. The representative, Knag Fylkesnes, said that the Central Party's proposal has a different view of NATO than the SV has, and that's quite natural. SV is against NATO membership, and it is natural that SV does not agree with the Center Party in our formulations at that point. The central party clearly clarifies our position regarding the obligations we have after our NATO membership. Finally some words to the representative Barth Eide said. The representative said, with full pressure, that one would not support the proposal, it was very reassuring what we have now had, and we have, in his opinion, had a solid and proper communication between government and opposition. Who knows this? Who knows that there has been a solid and proper communication? Yes, a few people. That is exactly what we are going to do about this proposal. When the representative Barth Eide says that this proposal confuses the executive and the legislative power, I would say that it is to shoot completely outside the blink. The installation to Barth Eide shows that Stortinget should take this matter further, because it is a practice that is not solid and proper after the judgment of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1036	I fully agree with what the representative Barth Eide said, for reasons that I shall immediately come back to. The most uplifting thing in the committee setting is that it implies that the Storting does not make any changes to the Constitution § 25. This does not mean that the opinions and observations of an indicative nature on the current state of law which the Committee may have had at some point are of importance because the proposal is simply being downgraded. Once again, from this pulpit: there is reason to stress some of the main points of the debate. There is currently no general requirement for the consent of the Storting Group to enable the government to engage in foreign defence capabilities. On the other hand, there was a purpose behind the current Paragraph 25 of the Basic Law, which was a limitation on the quantities that could be considered from Norway without the defence of their own territory becoming too weak. In the last case, the current Constitution, which we're not going to change, says consent from the Storting, i.e. an ordinary plenary decision. At the same time, we can see that no such situation as has required consent has arisen in both historical and modern times. In historical times, perhaps the Constitutional Law has helped to ensure that the kingship was just aware of the limitation that existed, and respected it. It is therefore not surprising that there are no procedures to record such consent. For there is no consent given when the government has used a previously incorporated consultation mechanism. The day on which the Storting may have to adopt consent in plenary, the minutes will normally resolve themselves. The proposal of the proposers is, of course, a transfer of competence from the executive, the government, to the Stortinget, which is also a controlling power. The current consultation mechanism is not a procedure for obtaining consent from the Stortinget. Despite the sound and tone of the consultations, the government will have to work under its own parliamentary responsibility even after the consultation has been carried out. Similarly, the Storting will be free to assess the measures that the government has found necessary to take in a crisis or war situation or an operation. They have to do that afterwards. It is also a great advantage for the control activities, because then you will have access to material and information that could not be provided to the Stortinge in advance of an ordinary discussion. It should say itself. I would also like to point out again that the representative Barth Eide had a good reflection on the weakening of the control function of Stortinge if there is a doubt about the functional distribution between the state powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1049	I will be allowed to thank you for a – I think – good debate on an important topic, one of the most serious decisions the Stortinget takes. I want to start with – whether you believe it or not, President – being accommodating to Michael Tetzschner. Now you've got to come with me! Because when he pointed out that in the setting on page 2, in column 2, it is stated that it requires the consent of the Storting if troops are to be sent abroad, it would be more precise if it were «except line troops». But I believe that it is clear from both the text and the setting. Nevertheless, that is the important principle. There are two approaches to the issue we have now discussed. One is to clarify the legislation with regard to the division of responsibilities that exists today between government and accumulation, and some believe that that division of responsibilities should be modified by taking a decision in the Stortinget. So it's changing the relationship between the two constituent powers. Regardless of that, I have also called for this to be an important debate that we should continue, because when, in the Constitution today, we say that there should be consent from the Stortinget, and when, at the same time, in the Constitution today, we refer to liner troops, and the protection of the land and the other troops – i.e. except line troops – it is concepts that, after decisions here in the Stortinget, are no longer relevant to defining what the Storing should consent to, and what the Storing should not consent to. So what either one thinks that the division of responsibilities should be changed, which someone here has raised, or whether one just thinks that one should continue the division of responsibilities we have, but clarify where the boundaries go, I believe that there is a basis for further discussion of how we should follow it up, and that in the future we should at least not have discussions about when one is inside and when one is outside the borders. We have a responsibility to make sure that the Constitution is up-to-date. So we don't think that the alternatives that we're dealing with are precisely enough, and that's why the setting is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1062	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1078	The issue we are now going to discuss is a proposal to include a wording in the Constitution § 25, on the prohibition of the production, introduction, use and deployment of nuclear weapons in Norway. The proposal was promoted in the previous period by the representatives of Kirsti Bergstø, Audun Lysbakken and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. Since the 1950s, Norway has had a clear line on the issue of nuclear weapons in Norwegian soil. Einar Gerhardsen’s proclamation at the 1957 NATO Summit in Paris on ‘no nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil in peacetime’ is well known. He also stated the following at the same meeting: ‘We also have no plans in Norway to have nuclear weapons stockpiles established in the Norwegian territory or to install medium-range rocket launch bases.’ This line has remained since then, and there is a broad political consensus in Norway that we should also have a driving role for international arms control and disarmament. There is no political dispute or disagreement in the Stortinget. With regard to the inclusion of concrete wording in the Constitution, for which there are proposals, a majority of the Committee considers that the proposal should not be accepted. The majority of the Committee consists of the members of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The fact that we believe that the proposal should not be accepted is not that anyone is to allow the production, introduction, use or deployment of nuclear weapons in Norway. It's important to be clear. But as the majority express in the comments in the case, it is believed that an explicit and detailed prohibition, which this is about, will constitute a violation of the constitutional tradition and practice that we have. The majority also believe that there will be concerns about the precedent through the constitutionalisation of other types of weapons of mass destruction and weapon types that must be said to be particularly inhuman or harmful to the civilian population. The majority of the Committee clearly states that there should be no doubt as to which Norwegian policy applies to nuclear weapons. It's stuck. The minority in the Committee, consisting of the representative of the Socialist Left Party, recommends that the proposal be adopted. I expect that the minority itself will explain its view. By doing so, I recommend the Committee's setting and assume that this will be the shortest article in the world today – listen and learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1098	My post may not be much longer. The world is bad and difficult. We can't have it that way. That is why it should be banned. Unfortunately, that is not all that can be adopted or banned. Socialists, in general, have no faith in this. Nuclear weapons are so cruel that we need a constitutional change, and it will bring the world a step further – a step on the way to peace and tolerance. I wish. The proposers forget, or ignore, that in a potential world without nuclear weapons is not the alternative of the absence of war. There will most likely be even more dissatisfaction and even more war. In a world without nuclear weapons, warring parties will deal with increasingly advanced, high-tech attack systems that in seconds will kill thousands of people. However, nuclear weapons are not used. It sounds like a paradox, but it's actually the truth. Nuclear weapons are 'weapons of last resort', weapons that in an extreme case can save lives. Let's not fool ourselves. The technology and the knowledge needed to produce nuclear weapons exist, and it will never be erasable. But countries will be able to be wiped out without access to nuclear weapons. Many would argue that there is just the certainty that the State of Israel has nuclear weapons, which means that there has not been a coordinated coup in the country. The attackers know what the consequences will be – if Israel's existence is threatened, nuclear weapons will be used, and that is fully understandable. Many would also argue that the reason we haven't experienced a great war between India and Pakistan is that both nations have nuclear weapons – tragic, of course, but still a reality. Nor should we forget the deterrence of nuclear weapons between East and West during the Cold War. There was no nuclear war, there was actually peace. The world is not simple, and the question of nuclear weapons is not about going ahead with a good example. It is not like picking plastics or other reasonable measures. For Norway, it is a matter of being part of an alliance, based on democratic principles and values of freedom, and of being willing to protect them at all costs. Of course, there is no doubt that if you were to win by removing all nuclear weapons, you also had to remove the knowledge that people possess to produce such weapons. Then even more advanced conventional weapons would develop, and the threshold for using them would be lower. Then you won't get any less war. That'll give you more war. You also get the chance that war will succeed, and then there will be no potential counterattack to nuclear weapons. Then war could succeed and tempt those who want to start a war because of territories, to start a war. So when the proposers claim that a constitutional proposal to ban the production, introduction, use and deployment of nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil must be seen in a wider perspective than Norway alone, I fully agree. And on our day of release, it's wise and useful to remind each other of that. But this is about something else. It's about solidarity. We cannot go alone in this fight. We're part of something larger. It's about solidarity. Sociists tend to be very concerned with solidarity, and this is about solidarity. In the 2010 strategic concept of NATO, it was established that the main responsibility of the alliance is deterrence. It's made with a mix of conventional and nuclear weapons. The concept further states that NATO does not perceive any country as an enemy, while the alliance will at all times match existing capabilities and any new threats. These are wise words, which have guaranteed us peace, freedom and democratic institutions for 70 years – wise words, to which SV in position joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1115	The representative of Tybring-Gjedde was very concerned with the socialists and what the socialists think. Here comes our own variant. For a long time, Norway has practised a policy that we do not have nuclear weapons, and among other things. shall not store or permit it on ships going to Norwegian ports. Since Einar Gerhardsen proclaimed «No nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil in peacetime» at the NATO summit in Paris in 1957, this policy has not only had unison political support in Norway but also clearly accepted among our allies. However, the majority do not want a constitutional change that prohibits the production, introduction, use or deployment of nuclear weapons in the kingdom. They give the following reasons in the setting: ‘there should be no doubt that Norwegian policy in this field is clearly firm and that it is therefore unnecessary to establish legal frameworks by means of a constitutional amendment’. While there is no majority for a ban in the form of Constitutional Law in Norway, a majority of the same size has previously said otherwise. The Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party, Left and SV expressed support for the work of a world free of nuclear weapons. I refer you to the Foreign and Defence Committee on the full abolition of nuclear weapons, Innst. [[2015-2016]] 199 S ‘The Government is asking the Government to work actively for a world free of nuclear weapons and to contribute to the implementation of the Non-Proliferation Agreement’s obligations, to play an active role in non-proliferation and in disarmament with a view to a balanced, reciprocal, irreversible and verifiable abolition of nuclear weapons, and on this basis to work long-term for a legally binding framework to achieve this objective.’ [[NPT]] In July 2017, 122 States adopted a UN ban on nuclear weapons which prohibits States from allowing other countries to station, install or deploy nuclear weapons on their territory or under their jurisdiction or control. Countries by country are now implementing this ban. I also want to spend some time on a book that was recently relaunched. It is Bishop Emeritus Erling Pettersen, who was the bishop of Stavanger, who published a new edition of his book. Then he interviewed Rogaland's newspaper, where he said the following: ‘My main criticism goes to the government. More than 120 countries signed last year's UN Treaty, which imposes a legally binding ban on nuclear weapons and the abolition of existing weapons. That Norway says no, and reasons why we can't do anything that weakens NATO, I don't like it». A majority in the United Kingdom has decided to investigate the impact of this ban on Norway, and in particular: provide an assessment of possible Norwegian accession to the Treaty. Nevertheless, a clear majority does not support the proposal to include the proposal in the Constitution. It's a paradox. A unequivocal ban on the stationing of nuclear weapons in Norwegian territory would support Stortinget’s expressed ambition for a long-term ban on nuclear weapons. There is no reason Norway should not adopt a ban on nuclear weapons. It is located among others. in the strategic concept of NATO, which obliges the alliance to facilitate a world without nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons are the most dangerous and inhuman weapons man has invented. It was used over Hiroshima and Nagasaki at the end of World War II. Tens of thousands of people died momentarily or in months afterwards. Today's nuclear weapons are far more destructive than those they had at the time. It is not possible to use nuclear weapons without massive and irreversible humanitarian consequences and consequences for the environment. There are fewer nuclear weapons today than there were a few decades ago. But there are several countries that have them, and there is a greater risk of them spreading. There is a real basis for claiming that nuclear weapons pose a greater threat today than they did at the end of the cold war. There are other weapons of mass destruction — chemical and biological weapons. There we have international conventions that prohibit their use. We don't have that for nuclear weapons. We believe that this provides a good basis for a separate constitutional ban that clarifies that Norway will not produce, introduce, use or deploy nuclear weapons in the kingdom. I would like to quote again Bishop Emeritus Erling Pettersen, who explains why he has renewed his commitment to nuclear weapons. It happened when ‘Hiroshima Survivor Setsuko Thurlow spoke during the December peace prize ceremony. I was deeply touched by her. At the same time, I saw the passive attitude of the Prime Minister, and then I thought that enough was enough." I'm proud to stand on this pulpit and represent a party that has a long history in the fight against nuclear weapons and for a nuclear-free world. It's an important part of SV's history, and I'm very proud of that. With that, I would like to address the proposal of the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1153	The representative Eirik Faret Sakariassen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1158	I must add a comment to the last speaker Father Saccharissen's posts. He said that international conventions ensure that no biological or chemical weapons are used. Syria - chemical weapons are used elsewhere. So these international conventions have limited value, but of course it's important that we have them. But they are absolutely no guarantee against the chemical weapons being used, and they are used against the weakest in a terrible way. That wasn't what I had in mind. My main post concerns a comment in the setting, written by SV. It says: ‘This member indicates that Norway has had a clear stand against nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil since Einar Gerhardsen proclaimed his ‘no nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil in peacetime’ at the NATO summit in Paris in 1957. This policy not only has unison political support in Norway, but it has also been clearly accepted by our allies.' This is a pretty impresis production. SV is trying to create an image of a non-existent unity. It is the left wing around SV that has been responsible for the greatest disagreement in Norwegian foreign and defence policy. The 1957 Land Meeting was valid for four years. Therefore, the debate continued until 1961. In 1958 there was an Easter uprising against alliance and nuclear policy in the Workers' Party, as one example of precision, which was mentioned. In St. Report. No 28 for 1960-61 it says: ‘It is the Government’s view that, in the current situation, the common defence will not be able to maintain its war prevention effect without nuclear weapons.’ This was at a time when we had a pretty big and strong defense. The quote is broken by the agreement SV makes in the note. Then I must also make a comment to the case rapporteur, who initially said that it was decided in 1957 that it was not to be built warehouses for nuclear weapons or stationed medium-range rockets in Norway. This is probably not true either, because during the four years between 1957 and 1961 a number of preparations were made for the storage and use of nuclear weapons from Norway. The Norwegian defense used planes and rockets that could carry nuclear weapons, and they needed to deliver these cruel weapons. It was, of course, on the mission of political leadership. Some of the weapons systems were phased out when the Workers' Party again said no to nuclear weapons in 1961. However, the majority of the Labour Party national meeting agreed that nuclear weapons could be stored if Norway faced a crisis or a war situation. The conflict led to the exclusion of a party fraction from the Labour Party. They formed the Socialist People's Party, which shows that there has not been such a unison of political support for this policy in Norway, as SV writes in his remark. It is precisely what was adopted at the National Labour Party meeting, which is important here. In a phase leading up to a conflict, political leadership in Norway will hardly implement the necessary mobilisation of fear to further escalate the conflict. There is no doubt that nuclear weapons are cruel, and we wish they were never invented. At the same time, there should be no doubt that the balance between the Soviet Union and NATO led to none of the parties ventured to go to direct war against each other in the conflict-filled years of the Cold War. We can't expect to get support from our allies in NATO if the Stortinge adopts SV's constitution. I understand that the SV's proposal only intends to weaken our membership in NATO, just as SV has been running since they were established some 55–58 years ago. We have to work to reduce the amount of nuclear weapons on this earth, but it has to happen through a balanced disarmament of trust. An imbalance between the large countries could lead to an overpowering, as the Swedes did to Norway between 1814 and 1905. Then they had a great military overpower that led them to force the Norwegian magnificence to change their decisions three times. It wasn't with nuclear weapons, but the example is there. We're not going to put ourselves in a position where other powers override Norwegian democratic decisions, as we risk with the SV proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1188	Nuclear weapons are the most dangerous and inhuman weapon humans have invented. Tens of thousands of people died either instantly or in time shortly after the nuclear bombs were used over Hiroshima and Nagasaki in World War II. Today's nuclear weapons are even more dangerous than those we had at the end of World War I, and nuclear weapons have great irreversible humanitarian consequences, and great consequences for the environment. There are probably fewer nuclear weapons today than there were a few years ago, but there are several countries that have nuclear weapons, and there is a greater risk of proliferation. In many ways, we can say that the nuclear threat today is greater than it was before. The left believes that the fight against nuclear weapons is primarily fought internationally, and that Norway must be part of this fight. And at the same time, we believe that we should be clear here at home by legislating that Norway is a nuclear-free territory. Until recently, nuclear weapons have been the last weapons of mass destruction that have not been the subject of an international ban. In the past, the world community has banned biological and chemical weapons, despite the fact that it was at a time when it seemed unthinkable that the countries that had these weapons should get rid of them. We have seen a disarmament of biological and chemical weapons over many years, but this spring we again experienced the use of chemical weapons in Syria. The left is for Norwegian NATO membership. At the same time, we believe that Norway must be able to operate as an independent nation in the UN context and vote in favour of the treaties we believe are right and necessary. On 7 July last year 122 UN countries voted in favour of an international treaty prohibiting any use and possession of nuclear weapons. Norway’s chair was empty in these negotiations, and Norway chose not to participate in the vote. The signing of the agreement was opened last autumn and, once at least 50 countries have ratified the agreement, it will be governed by international law in those countries. In the fall, we rejoiced that ICAN, International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, and it was justified by the campaign's struggle to bring about the humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons and their efforts to put in place just a UN ban. NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy. The left therefore believes it is important that we now have a thorough investigation into the possibility of Norway agreeing to this ban as a NATO state. The non-proliferation agreement must be a cornerstone of the international work of the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons. We believe that international laws matter, but we also believe that national laws mean something, and that is why we are voting for the Constitution that Norway will not produce, introduce, use or deploy nuclear weapons in the kingdom. There has been a broad political consensus that we do not want nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil for decades, through the cold war and afterwards. The left considers that the value basis represented by this broad agreement on Norway as a nuclear-free territory should be enshrined in the Constitution. The consequences of nuclear weapons are so disastrous, and the threshold for changing this long joint agreement on nuclear-free Norway must be high. Therefore, this fundamental law should be laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1207	Nuclear weapons have the capacity to destroy all human lives. It can trigger severe climate change and it is a serious threat to international peace and security. Let it be clear: the Christian People's Party is strongly committed to preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to carrying out a thorough, committed and verifiable disarmament with a view to a world free of nuclear weapons. We therefore support the long-term work on a real ban on nuclear weapons. The central multilateral instrument of this work is the non-proliferation agreement. It obliges the original nuclear powers to work for nuclear disarmament in order to create a world free of nuclear weapons. At the same time, other signature countries undertake not to have or attempt to acquire nuclear weapons. It is important that Norway is a driving force in international work. We therefore support the work on balanced and reciprocal nuclear disarmament within the framework of the non-proliferation agreement, including a long-term objective of an international ban on nuclear weapons. In the short term, it is essential to prevent further proliferation of nuclear weapons. The question now is whether a ban on the production, introduction, deployment and use of nuclear weapons should be enshrined in the Constitution. That question is as much about the nature of the Constitution, and what you think is natural to add to the Constitution, as the matter itself. However, the underlying issue of the proposal is very important: how to deal with what this type of weapons of mass destruction represents. The theme is increasingly topical. Nevertheless, we would argue that it is not in our constitutional tradition to enter objectives of the kind that it is added up to here. These kinds of issues are best addressed, in our view, through other policy instruments and initiatives, in line with what I mentioned in the introduction. In our view, the nature and purpose of the Constitution do not make it right to impose a ban on one particular type of weapons of mass destruction. Other weapon categories are not mentioned in the Constitution, and in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it is not right from our point of view of the nature of the Constitution and its permanence to introduce that kind of provision. Should such a provision be introduced, natural questions such as: What about other types of weapons? What about other categories of weapons that are particularly inhuman or harmful to the civilian population or the environment? These are completely relevant questions that we had to decide on. At the same time, the Christian People's Party is quite clear that the work of a nuclear-free world must continue. Unfortunately, several countries have acquired nuclear weapons after the non-proliferation agreement of 1970 was concluded. It's a dangerous trend. We must prevent terrorist groups from getting hold of nuclear weapons or other nuclear material that can be used in dirty bombs. Efforts that must be international through the forums and bodies relevant in that context are required. At the same time, nuclear powers must intensify efforts to reduce the number of nuclear weapons. Only in that way can we achieve the goal of a world completely free of nuclear weapons. The Christian People's Party's position on this issue is clear and clear: in the short term, we are going to work actively internationally to prevent further proliferation of nuclear weapons, and we are going to work for a ban in the long term, among other things. in close cooperation with our allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1230	This proposal is unsolvable, immoral and dangerous – very dangerous to Norwegian safety. We're at an exposed edge of Europe. Norway is strategically important, and we are totally dependent on allied support. Our security is fundamentally based on NATO helping us if we are in a crisis or under other threats. It is also absolutely necessary for Norway to stand united with its allies. The representative Tybring-Gjedde was involved in NATO's strategic concept and the fact that nuclear weapons are an integral part of the way we intend to defend ourselves. It is neither solidarity nor moral to entrust all the difficult, expensive, political, and moral tasks to all the other allies and not to take that burden for themselves. Unfortunately, the world around us has become more dangerous in recent years. Let's start with Russia, which unfortunately has gone in an increasingly authoritarian direction. They are most likely to break the medium-range rocket agreement, i.e. rockets with a range of between 500 and 5500 kilometres. They're still practicing and demonstrating with nuclear weapons. We saw it at the latest in the so-called Sapad exercise, the great exercise against the Baltic region and also against Norway last autumn. And we see that the president himself is still using atomic weapons for various types of demonstrations. The last thing we saw was the launch of the new fantastic high-speed nuclear torpedoes to be able to drown coastal cities in radioactive tsunami. This is our closest neighbor. Then we can go a little further away, to countries like Iran and North Korea. Then we're not talking about authoritarian states, we're talking about fundamental dictatorships. North Korean rockets can actually reach Oslo today, and we're obviously worried about whether they can be equipped with nuclear charges and now equidistant. A ban provides none of these countries I mentioned, any incentive for disarmament or restraint. On the contrary, authoritarian states and not least dictatorships invite more escalation, greater pressure and more threats. It would be a great shame if we were to put ourselves in a negative position and contribute to a ban that would impede NATO's nuclear strategy, which, to those degrees, is dependent on allied support. Unfortunately, I have to say that we have never had greater need for nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, it is only the harsh fact that we face when we look at the reality of security policy that we live in. A ban is optimistic, and a lot of people might say naive. These opponents are not stopped by words, they are only stopped by deterrence. That's why, as a nation, we've always had to stick to a defense -- that's to deal with such situations -- and our defense also includes NATO's nuclear weapons. The representative Faret Sakarisassen was at the threat level and the challenges we face, but the SV's answer is completely wrong. The correct answer is to deal with and continue working with the non-proliferation agreement, which is the only real international agreement that is a foundation for further disarmament in this area. And then it has to build long-term trust between nuclear powers and major powers. I and everyone in this room are of course fully aware that there will be a long-term and very difficult work, but there is unfortunately no easy way around that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1247	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1259	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1275	Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Left, the Greens and the Reds have announced support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1289	The decision did not reach the constitutional majority and was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1298	During the debate, Bente Stein Mathisen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Document 12:15 on the Draft Constitution of Eivind Smith, adopted by Michael Tetzschner and Sylvi Graham, amending Sections 17, 49, 50, 75 and 109 [[2015-2016]] [[correction of language errors following the constitutional amendments in 2014]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1313	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1318	Then it has been corrected. The proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party was not accepted by 86 votes to 80. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1338	The Committee's position on the I lapses as a result of the vote on the minority proposal. All parties have indicated their support for the Committee's recommendation for II. The draft Constitutional Law was worded as follows: The following provisions shall be inserted in new Norwegian: The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6 is replaced by the following: Only children of the queen or king, or of someone who has the inheritance of himself, can inherit, and the child must be born in legal marriage. Paragraph 6, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: The unborn also has inheritance rights, and the child takes his or her place in the succession as soon as it comes to the world. Paragraph 15 third paragraph is replaced by the following: Once the Storting has taken a decision on mistrust, the State Council can only carry out the necessary actions for defence. Section 19 is replaced by the following: The king sees to it that the estates and regimes of the state are used and administered as the Storting has determined, and in the way that is most useful to society. Paragraph 21 third sentence is replaced by the following: Officials who are not Norwegian citizens may, by law, be exempted from this obligation. the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 22 is replaced by the following: The Prime Minister, the other members of the Government and the State Secretaries can without judgment be dismissed by the King after he has heard what the Government thinks about it. the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 23 is replaced by the following: The King may give orders to whomever he wills, to pass over for profit, which must be made public. Paragraph 25, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Land protection and other non-linear clusters must never be used outside the borders of the kingdom without the consent of the Storting. Paragraph 28 third sentence is replaced by the following: However, exceptions may be made to the treatment of actual military command matters by the State Council of the King. Paragraph 29, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: If a council of states is prevented from meeting and targeting matters that belong to her or his subject area, matters shall be determined by another council of states, which the king constitutes to it. The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 30 is replaced by the following: The king has the duty to right the opinion, but can make the decision according to his own reputation. Paragraph 31, second sentence, is replaced by the following: In military command matters, decisions shall be countersigned by the target but otherwise by the Prime Minister or, if the Prime Minister was not present in the Council of State, by the principal of the members who were there. Paragraph 36, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: If she or he acts contrary to this, she misses the subsequent right to the throne of Norway for herself as well as for her successors. Paragraph 41, first sentence, is replaced by the following: If the king is outside the kingdom without being in the field, or if he is so sick that he cannot take care of the government, the closest heir to the throne shall be to the government that temporarily exercises the king's power, then she or he has reached the official age of the king. Paragraph 50, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: In which Norwegian citizens on the election day are resident abroad, but otherwise the above conditions shall have voting rights, shall be laid down by law. Paragraph 51 is replaced by the following: Rules on man-counting and on the introduction of voice-to-person numbers are laid down by law. Paragraph 53 is replaced by the following: The right to voice is missing (a) the person convicted of criminal offences, in accordance with the provisions of the law; (b) the person in charge of a front-end power without the government's consent. Paragraph 57, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: The Kingdom is divided into 19 electoral districts. Paragraph 57, fifth paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: The number of large-scale representatives to be selected from each constituency will be calculated on the basis of the ratio of population to area in the district on the one hand and the population and area in the whole kingdom on the other. Paragraph 67 is replaced by the following: The representatives selected in the above way make up the Kingdom of Norway Storting. Option 1: Paragraph 75 is replaced by the following: That's what the Size belongs to. (a) to give and abolish laws; to fix taxes, duties, customs duties and other public prices, which, however, do not apply after 31 December of the following year, if they are not expressly renewed by a new increase; (b) borrowing on the credit of the State; (c) to supervise the financial system in the State; (d) to authorise the sums of money needed for the public expenditure; (e) to determine the amount to be paid to the king's court every year, and to determine the royal family's apension, which cannot be in permanent possession; f) to obtain the minutes of the Council of State and all public messages and papers; (g) to be notified of the international agreements made by the king with the state's leading powers; (h) to be able to command anyone to meet separately in matters of state, as close as the king and the royal family; however, they may be called in by the royal princesses and the princes if they have office; (i) to revise lists of temporary salaries and pensions and to make the changes that the Storting believes need; k) appoint five auditors to review the state accounts each year and publish extracts from them in print; the auditors shall have the accounts sent within six months of the end of the year for which the Storting has given the permission; and provide information on the arrangements for the delegation of powers vis-à-vis the accounting officers of the State; (l) to appoint a non-member of the Storting, who, according to the law, shall exercise control over the public administration and all those in the public service, in order to prevent any wrong being committed against the individual citizen; (m) granting a right of origin. Option 2: Paragraph 75 is replaced by the following: That's what the Size belongs to. (a) to give and abolish laws; to fix taxes, duties, customs duties and other public prices, which, however, do not apply after 31 December of the following year, if they are not expressly renewed by a new increase; (b) to open loans on the credit of the State; (c) to supervise the financial system in the State; (d) to authorise the sums of money needed for the public expenditure; (e) to determine the amount to be paid to the king's court every year, and to determine the royal family's apension, which cannot be in permanent possession; f) to obtain the minutes of the Council of State and all public messages and papers; (g) to be notified of the international agreements made by the king with the state's leading powers; (h) to be able to command anyone to meet separately in matters of state, as close as the king and the royal family; however, they may be called in by the royal princesses and the princes if they have office; (i) to revise lists of temporary salaries and pensions and to make the changes that the Storting believes need; k) appoint five auditors to review the state accounts each year and publish extracts from them in print; the auditors shall have the accounts sent within six months of the end of the year for which the Storting has given the permission; and provide information on the arrangements for the delegation of powers vis-à-vis the accounting officers of the State; (l) to appoint a non-member of the Storting, who, according to the law, shall exercise control over the public administration and all those in the public service, in order to prevent any wrong being committed against the individual citizen; (m) granting a right of origin. Paragraph 77 is replaced by the following: When the Storting has made the same law decision twice in a row, the decision goes to the King with a call for sanctions. Paragraph 79 is replaced by the following: When two greats with one choice and at least two greats in between have made the same law unchanged without the Stortinge in the meantime having made a discrepancy in final law, and it is then submitted to the King in the words that His Majesty will not refuse to sanction a law which, after a thorough assessment, the Stortinget is too beneficial, then it will be law even if the King does not give punishment until the Grand Ring divorces. Paragraph 80, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: In accordance with the rules of the Order of Stortinget, the negotiations may be resumed, but they will end no later than the last working day in September. Paragraph 80, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: Before that time, the King of the Great announced his decision on the law-enforcement decisions that have not already been passed. [[(see section 4.4). §§ 77-79)]] Paragraph 81, first sentence, is replaced by the following: All laws are issued in the name of the King, under the Norwegian national seal, and in the following words: "We N.N. [[as close as they are to § 79]] make known: that We have submitted a decision from the Storing Date which reads as follows: [[here comes the decision]] Paragraph 86, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following: Those who have taken the seat of the Riksrätt who have been elected by the Storting will be seated even if the time for which they are elected expires before the Riksrätt has ended the case. Likewise, Supreme Court judges sit in the Court of Justice even if they resign as members of the Supreme Court. Paragraph 90 is replaced by the following: A court-martial may not in any case attack. Paragraph 91 is replaced by the following: No one can be appointed a member of the Supreme Court before she or he is 30 years old. Paragraph 100, second paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: No one can be held legally responsible for having received or presenting information, ideas or messages if it is not possible to defend itself against the fundamental freedom of expression in the search for truth, democracy and the free expression of the individual. The second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 100 is replaced by the following: Can not get message: %s %s Paragraph 105 is replaced by the following: If a person needs to give up his or her fixed or movable property for public use, he or she shall receive full consideration from the Treasury. Paragraph 114, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Only Norwegian citizens who speak the language of the country may be appointed to the State; and (a) either was born in the kingdom of parents who were then Norwegian nationals; b) or were born abroad by Norwegian parents who were then no citizen of any other country; (c) has resided in the Kingdom for 10 years; d) or is granted the right of entry by the Stortinget. Paragraph 115, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to participation in an international relationship where the decisions only have a purely international effect on Norway. Paragraph 117, second sentence, is replaced by the following: The conditions under which it will be used to the maximum benefit for the state and the benefit of the land wealth will be determined by the first or second accumulation. Paragraph 119, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: The manner in which this principle is to be implemented and the exceptions to it are laid down by law. Paragraph 121, first paragraph, third sentence, is replaced by the following: However, such a change must never go contrary to the principle of this Constitution, but only apply to modifications in individual declarations which do not change the spirit of that Constitution, and two-thirds of the Storing must agree on such a change.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1575	In line with the tradition of constitutional proposals, petitions will be made by roll call. The plug starts with representative No. 2 for the tribe of Hedmark, the mighty battle of Vedum. Those who vote in favour of the Committee's position on II shall reply yes. Those who vote against answer no. The President will ask the representatives to reply in a loud and clear manner for the purposes of registration, and it shall remain silent in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1591	The 167 representatives who voted in favour of the draft Constitution were: Strygve Battle violence Vedum, Nils Kristen Sandtrøen, Kristian Tuning Riise, Tor André Johnsen, Emilie Enger Mehl, Karin Andersen, Ove Trellevik, Magne Rommetvei, Helge André Njåstad, Peter Frølich, Jette F. Christensen, Torill Eidsheim, Kjersti Top, Silje Hemdal, Audun Lysbakken, Eigil Knutsen, Tom-Christerist Nilden, Knut Arild Hareide, Liv Kari Eskeland, Ruth Grung, Terje Breivik, Nilst Björke, Helge Placen, Sylvi Listhaug, Else-May Botten, Jenny Klinge, Janny Klinge, Jan Steinarj Engeli Johansen, Fredric Holes Bjärdal, Vet Wang Sjörsen, Eitten, Eitten, Margunn Eitsen Ebbesen, Willow, Willfrieden Nordlund, Kjellow, Kjelig, Kjelut The following 2 representatives were absent: Marianne Synnes and Tina Bru [[forf.]] [[forf.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1598	This means that the Committee's position on II is adopted by a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1607	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1615	The draft Constitutional Law was worded as follows: ‘The first sentence of Section 5 shall be replaced by the following: Option 1: The King's person may not be charged or charged. – The king personally cannot be loaded or owed for anything. Option 2: The king cannot be charged or accused. – The king cannot be loaded or owed for anything.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1637	All parties have announced their support for the suspension. This vote will also take place on roll call. The plug starts with representative No. 5 for Troms County, Martin Henriksen. Those who vote in favour of the Committee's position shall reply yes. Those who vote against answer no. In turn, the President will ask the representatives to reply in a loud and clear manner for the purposes of registration, and it shall remain silent in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1655	The 167 representatives who voted in favour of the draft Constitution were: Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gålde, Gälde, Gälde, Gälde, Gälde, Gälde, Gälde, Gälde, Gälde, Gälde, Gälde, Gälde, Gälde The following 2 representatives were absent: Marianne Synnes and Tina Bru [[forf.]] [[forf.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1662	The Committee's position is therefore adopted by a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1671	During the debate, Mrs Leirstein put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:16 [[right to vote and to stand]] The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1703	The Committee's position on the I lapses as a result of the vote on the minority proposal. Behind the Committee's position is the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1723	During the debate, Nils T. Bjørke put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:45 [[use of the State’s defence power on foreign land]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1740	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1748	The Committee's position is based on the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The left has indicated support for the configuration. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1766	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Eirik Faret Sakariassen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Document 12:6 [[prohibition of nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil]] The Left, the Greens and the Reds have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1785	Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Document 12:6 [[prohibition of nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil]] As a result of the vote on file No. 5 lapses this proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1802	As a result of the vote on file No. 5 and minority proposal No. 1 In this case, the Committee's position shall also lapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-08.ana.ud429e1816	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
