ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e54	The representative of Mazyar Keshvari, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Click to close the curve The called alternate of Oslo, Zaineb Al-Samarai, is now taking the seat. Click to close the curve Two permit applications are available: on the leave of the representative of Mr Carl-Erik Grimstad on 12 and 13 December to take part in the meeting of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Strasbourg from the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative of Kirsti Leirtrø from 13 December to 19 December On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. Click to close the curve The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For South-Trundellag County: Kristian Torve For the Westfold province: Kari-Lise Rørvik
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e102	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's Storting meeting continues beyond noon. 16 until the current map has been completed. Click to close the curve At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Click to close the
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e144	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, members of the government are given 5 minutes each. Click to close the curve Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three lines with replies from the main figures of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Click to close the curve – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Click to close the
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e157	Good for Norwegian jobs, good for Norwegian districts, good for environment and climate, good for value creation, good for people – these are five ways to describe the Centre's alternative budget, and at all these points I think our alternative is considerably better than the government's budget. Click to close the curve When the oil price fell, the government was clear that this was not something for which the government could load. When we now experience rising oil prices and that the economy is going well in the world, we feel that the government's government party is taking this into account for the government's own policy. Click to close the curve In the case of solar parliamentarianism, rhetoric is more important than reality. It's a shame, because it covers the possibility of having an open and honest debate on how to secure the value creation in Norway in the future. Click to close the curve A first step the government could have taken was to stop prohibiting industries or implementing targeted measures to eliminate Norwegian jobs. And there's a lot of examples going on. Svalbard's coal industry is being shut down without knowing the price of cleaning up or the consequences for the Svalbard community. Click to close the curve Another example is the imposition of a food ban on fur nutrition. Pels are still to be sold in Norway. It can be produced anywhere in the world without any animal welfare requirements, only if it is not produced in Norway, with the best animal welfare in the world. Today and every day until 2025, there will be mink and reefs on Norwegian gardens that have poorer animal welfare than they would have had on Storting's decision when a treat the pet message was firm. Click to close the curve A third example: the government would allow Color Line to replace at least 700 Norwegian seafarers with cheap foreign labour. For years, the Minister of Industry has fought for this. Yes, the Right has been far more eager in business than the Color Line itself. Arguments after arguments from the Minister of Industry have been rejected by trade union movement and opposition. Fortunately, now the government is getting ready to notify the Size: Do not do this. Click to close the curve A fourth point is the charging policy, which is useful in attacking individual industries. The sharp increase in the chocolate and sugar levy and the levy on non-alcoholic beverages last year has been damaging the Norwegian food industry. The year’s reversal of the sugar levy is, of course, a good one, but it is still a crown example of an unprincipled and poor industrial policy. Click to close the curve The central party will have a targeted enterprise policy, where we build up under industries where we have special arrangements to close down. We want closer cooperation between private and government to develop future jobs. Our business needs perseverance. Click to close the curve The centre party of my ownership will become more important and important to secure Norwegian business, Norwegian businesses and Norwegian jobs. Therefore, we say no to the further stately hall. The government requests a salsa authorization for Telenor. It is difficult to see what is better with such a hall, but it is easy to see that the Norwegian ownership of the company can be weakened. Click to close the curve In agricultural policy, we are now beginning to see the results of the policy pursued since 2013. The Party of Government and the Christian People's Party must take a considerable responsibility for the fact that we are now in a situation of overproduction. A premise for the Norwegian agricultural model is that there is a balance between supply and demand, so that the farmer can get a proper price for his goods. Overproduction is married to Norwegian agriculture. Click to close the curve With today's plural we have lost a tool to regulate the market. At the same time, measures to increase production have been taken. Everybody's losing on this. Although in recent years the Christian People's Party has stopped some of the proposals from the government, I think it is quite appropriate to say that the Christian People's Party has a significant responsibility for the loss of income that agriculture is experiencing. Click to close the curve I am pleased that the majority of the votes give clear leadership for the climate negotiations between agriculture and the government. The majority of the committee rejects the use of fees on biological processes, and I expect the Minister of Agriculture in the debate to confirm that this is something the government will base on in the negotiations. Click to close the curve Norwegian seafood is fantastic and has enormous possibilities. It applies to both wild fish and farming. The centre party is clear that the marine resources belong to the Norwegian people together. This means that in future we will also have a common fishing fleet. This means that we need measures to ensure the smallest fish recipients. Not surprisingly, the government proposes to cut the money for the so-called leadership. This is a centralization concept. And we know that if there's something government is good at, it's a centralization act. Click to close the curve The Intergovernmental Party will have a lot of speaking time in this debate. The committee has been consulted, because in addition to the party's own speaking time, government councils have been given 5 minutes each, which one does not need to withdraw from the party groups. That is good, because hopefully we will hear what the Minister for Fisheries thinks about the important policy area for which he is responsible. It has been strangely silenced since the Council of State change, it is, above all, the outgoing Minister for Fisheries we have heard and seen in the media. Click to close the curve In its alternative budget, the centre will strengthen the leadership, have a targeted effort to develop and automate the fishing industry, and we want to re-establish Norwegian self-anguish, which has been systematically built under this government. Click to close the curve The Centre Party's alternative budget is bad news for all those who are concerned with symbolism policies and who are concerned about charging people with climate taxes and other measures that do not reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Our budget is created by and for people who are busy with a policy that actually reduces greenhouse gas emissions. The climate crisis hastens us to re-establish a working climate policy. Click to close the curve Many have used strong words in an attempt to undermine the climate profile of the Centre Party's alternative budget. There is no basis for that. There is a far more offensive budget in the climate field than the government's proposal. The difference is that the Centre Party does not look at business policies and climate policies against each other, but says that there are two things that must work together. Click to close the curve To give some examples: the central party is providing the renewable fund Nysnø AS 400 million. kr more to invest in new technologies. The centre party does something that the government doesn't do, we're betting on agricultural research, because we think it's important to bring down greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture. The government's budget is alarming that all areas are growing in research, excluding agriculture. The center part wants a forest bet where we're going to manage and use the forest, rather than protecting it. Click to close the curve This is a centralisation budget, and we have a centralisation government. In the nations today, we can read that four directors of state companies have postcode 0260. We believe in Norway, promise Right in the election campaign. And yes, it's right that post number 0260 Oslo is Norway, but the difference between the Right and the Center Party is that the Center Party is in whole Norway. When I saw this matter in the nations today, I experienced a Minister of Economic Affairs who does not take the criticism seriously. He speaks disparagingly of those who criticize him, saying that they don't know the good systems one has in the ministry for this. But the result is that we are getting an ever centralization of who is being appointed to the board. Click to close the curve Then there will certainly be a matter that concerns Jovsset Ánte and a proposal to suspend the use of coercive measures, such as: Centered game is behind, turning into a theme today. I'll come back later. Click to close the curve Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the Budgetary Setting. It has been a smooth and good process, in which all parties have contributed constructively in order to achieve an understandable position that reflects in a good way that the parties their policies, and where there are some pluralities that will have meaning for Norwegian policies ahead. Click to close the curve With that, I'll take up the suggestions that the Center Party is either alone or together with other parties. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e208	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Click to close the curve It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e215	The EEA Agreement gives us access to a market of 500 million people. It makes the Norwegian economy stronger, it guarantees our well-being, and it helps us to change quickly. We are many who live in communities where the corner stone company is dependent on selling its goods and services to a market, or who depend on outside labour. All of this we get access to through the EEA Agreement. Click to close the curve The centre party has often been called upon to terminate the EEA Agreement and in its draft budget they have reduced the transfer to the implementation of the EEA Agreement by 1.4 billion. kr. Then, internationally, we see the concern about the referendum in the United Kingdom about withdrawing from the EU. We also see the unrest within the country. I wonder what the centre party has in the sleeve that says it won't be the same trouble here in Norway if you cancel an agreement. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e222	I thank you for the question. This is a known question from the Right side. The centre party is very clear that we want to replace the EEA Agreement with an alternative – an option that is less political in nature, but that safeguards our commercial policy interests. And there are back pages of the EEA Agreement that I would like to see Right also interested in discussing, for example. when a constant increase in quotas is imposed on imports of agricultural products into Norway. So it's not relevant to cancel the EEA Agreement without having an alternative in place. Click to close the curve The centre party also has the voice of a number of free trade agreements in the Storting. They think we can stand in front of, smoke us up. We don't think we can stand in the way. And then I'm glad that the representative mentions brexit, because I'm worried that the government has such a passive attitude to what happens with brexit. I think Norway should be more offensive on behalf of both our own interests and our good neighbour United Kingdom. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e229	The Central Party believes it would be right to await the UN Committee on Human Rights’ assessment before the Supreme Court judgment is enforced. Opinions of the United Nations Committee on Human Rights are, as you know, not legally binding on Norway. Click to close the curve ‘People elected should be held back from giving more power to supranational bureaucracies, organisations and courts.’ This is a quote from the Central Party website. I am therefore surprised that the Central Party is comfortable asking the government to set aside a Supreme Court judgment in order to await an assessment by 18 experts sitting in Geneva, representing a body that is not responsible for elections. Does not the Norwegian right to rule on Norwegian resources and Norwegian sovereignty undermine? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e239	Human rights are incorporated into Norwegian law, it is very clear from Section 2 of the Human Rights Act that it applies. The centre party supports the reduction in the number of votes, we support the need for national policy management. When it comes to this matter in concrete terms, it's a little surprising to me that the Progress Party is so upset on behalf of the system – when we engage in an injustice that we see frame a single individual. I have to say, after all, that it is the Storting that is now discussing – not the cause, not the judgment, but the implementation of coercive measures, before we have this verdict from the UN Committee on Human Rights. That means we're going to take the time. Besides, it is well that these reindeer are now on the verge and are not possible to coerce slaughter. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e244	The representative Pollestad says that the Centre Party is predictable and targeted in its policy – and in its industrial policy. Yes, it is predictable, also in the light of what Margunn Ebbesen said in his reply concerning the EEA and what would have been the consequence if the Senter party had got through. But he goes on to say that the Center Party does not stand for symbol politics. I find that interesting when I look at the Central Party's alternative budget, where the government's consultancy is used as a balancing post. Could it be interesting to hear from the representative Pollestad, who is so concerned about being both predictable and focused, about employing more permanent staff, or are the projects that are currently being prepared to be just standing? This will also have major consequences in many cases for a business life, but I understand that it is also predictable for the Center Party. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e249	The centre party believes that it is possible to slim down the bureaucracy in Norway. We've done that in the areas where we think it's a basis for that. I think it's a better approach than a cheese mat, which will hit everyone. Click to close the curve So I think that if we're going to take a given with the bureaucracy of society, we have to have the will to force regulatory changes, too, and with fewer rules, we need fewer people to fit the same rules. One of the things that's always surprised me a little bit, regardless of government, is that one is operating with some huge numbers for simplification. So I challenge today's government on: Have they made any distortions? Then just say, no, we haven't. But we see a number of areas where there are new rules that will lead to more looting and embossing. So I think we have a common responsibility at Stortinget to reduce bureaucracy in this country, and that fight is what the Senter Party intends to join. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e256	That's the line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e262	In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, we address the major challenges. For us, it is about work, strengthening the community, and not least about halting climate change. Increased value creation and more jobs are the most important job. We therefore set ourselves at sea as one of the basis for future value creation. We focus more on agriculture's ability to produce safe food and more food in response to climate change. We are spending more on the fisheries. We are putting more emphasis on digitisation. We spend more on start-ups. We focus more on technology, support and development than the four parties have achieved in their budgetary settlement. We will ensure lifelong learning for workers and update employees for business. We focus more on the community because we believe that safe people are more awake, and we believe that good welfare schemes such as common school, kindergarten and health care help to make people both more efficient and more productive. Click to close the curve The Workers' Party's alternative state budget is a clear priority for making use of the many possibilities, facilitating more secure jobs and, above all, ensuring increased value creation and more power for conversion. The budgetary position we are discussing today clearly shows that the offensive business policy is in the opposition and not among the solutions launched by the right-wing parties in their budgetary unity. We've heard a lot of celebrations from the Right People, both before and after the big elections in 2013, about the need to convert the Norwegian economy. Yes, after the election, conversion became a kind of mantra for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry at the time. At the time, Monica Meland told the magazine Sunnhordland on 4 September 2015 about the oil industry: ‘Industry must change. We shall move from an oil-based industry to a more knowledge-based industry.’ First, a most remarkable statement, but what has been made? Nothing. Where's the transition gone? Where did it come from? Taking a historical perspective, history shows very clearly that right-wing policies function very poorly in response to societal challenges and are particularly weakly historical in relation to key industrial challenges and in facilitating the creation of added values in society. The growth we now have is due to increased activity in the oil and gas sector. The State Council, Siv Jensen, in its financial statements on 8 October, said: «Today the sun shines again – throughout the country. Good growth in the economy.» Yes, fortunately, Norway is very good, but self-satisfaction can reveal important challenges. Click to close the curve Last spring the NHO was out with a clear warning. We build housing and roads, but not forward-looking jobs, said Øystein Dørum, pointing out that the level of investment in businesses must be significantly raised. Even in the NHO’s last Economic Review 4/2018, which was published as late as yesterday, the figures from mainland investment have been slightly adjusted from the third quarter. This year, LO's chief economist, Roger Bjørnstad, is out warning us that we are vulnerable, and that resources are placed in property and low-productive jobs. I think it's valuable to listen to these chief economists. There should be concern that Norway has fallen to 16th place in the rift of the world’s most competitive countries, seven places behind Sweden. Click to close the curve Last Friday, I was a participant in the NHO's ambassador program for business leaders in Vestfold and Telemark – an interesting meeting place. I believe that there was a representative meeting and a conversation for the business community and what they are concerned about. There was no desire for general instruments or for a reduction in taxes on wealth. No, they wanted a more participatory public sector in terms of both public acquisitions and risk relief. They wanted more for innovation. They were frustrated by how difficult it was to get capital, when most of the money was placed in property, as they saw it. It was a strong prayer to make arrangements that relieved creative heads for all public tasks. These are the feedback we meet — after meeting with the business community — and it should lead policy development. Click to close the curve Norway is the country of opportunity. We're highly educated, we have skilled labour. We have a low level of conflict. We're strong, and we're enriched with great natural resources. We also own large strategically important companies, but unfortunately the policy does not facilitate the use of these opportunities. It has become so that tax cuts to those who have the most have been answered, no matter what the question is. We've seen in the last five years that it doesn't help much in industrial policy. Click to close the curve The government seems to be the lamb of action, empty of initiative and willingness to act. It's the Storting doing the job. It is the Stortinget that instructs the government, as was done in the industrial notification, the bioeconomy strategy or the commercial industry notification that was submitted on Friday a little over a week ago, which was imposed by the Stortinget following an initiative and a document 8 proposal from the Centre Party, a communication containing some and thirty measures, where most of the majority have already been imposed by the Stortinget. After five years with the management of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries, I cannot see or remember a single matter that they themselves have initiated, with the exception of the notifications or propositions that result from normal annual cycles. Click to close the curve Enterprise policy is about the future prospects of business. Let's say yes. At best, the government says well. Click to close the curve One expression I like well is that the future is coming faster now than it used to be. There is evidence that things are going faster, and that is not least the case in business policy. If we are to succeed in the future, we need to make tough and right decisions now to have a sustainable industrial and business life in the future. But the government refuses to make the right decisions about the future. I would therefore encourage the right parties to follow the Workers' Party, so that we can ensure, for example. a CO 2 fund for industrial transport, further strengthening Enova to strengthen its industrial and industrial activities, prioritisation of carbon capture and storage, so that at least two projects can be realised and investment decisions taken in the near future. We will, of course, recommend the right parties to vote in favour of our proposal for an enhanced environmental technology system. Click to close the curve I would also recommend the right parties, and not least the Minister of Industry, to follow us in the desire to realise an industrial strategy in which the aim is to transform hazardous waste into an industrial added value. But the answer here from the government parties is no. The four right-wing parties, who agree on the budget, say a big no to just such a forward-looking proposal. But it's interesting to hear what the Minister of Industry thinks about this. Is it right now to start a clear effort to reduce the landfill demand for hazardous waste, or should a person just wait or delay it and not address the issues, as it has been for many years already? Click to close the curve When we stand dry on land and look out over the sea, a natural reflection is that the government talks a lot about the sea, but what do they really do? The budget is a gray budget, which appears to be a large yeast, wrote the Fisheries Bulletin. It hasn't happened much, but it should quickly happen much more with the amazing opportunities the sea provides. We in the Workers' Party are therefore betting on our own value creation programme for the sea. We are strengthening the maritime sector and putting more emphasis on green shipping. We want to have more knowledge of the coast and the fjords to ensure sustainable economic development, and we want to ensure that the fish come ashore, so that it can be transformed and create added values, and not least we ensure Norwegian seafarers on board Norwegian ferries. Click to close the curve We have now received an agricultural minister who has so far only talked about local food. I agree with what the Minister of Agriculture says about local food, because it is important, but what does the Minister of Agriculture really think about climate change in relation to our ability to produce food? What does the Minister of Agriculture think about that? Or what does the Minister of Agriculture really think about Jovsset Ánte Sara having to slaughter 275 pure while he is waiting for his case to be settled in the UN Human Rights Committee in Geneva? What does the Minister of Agriculture really think about that? Is that a good process? Is it worthy, that process? Is it true, that process? What does the Christian People's Party think, which can now choose whether, together with the right parties, they will legitimize forced slaughter, or allow the case to have another outcome and secure a majority in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, which believes it would be right to await the assessment of the UN Human Rights Committee on the matter before any coercive action is taken. With regard to this matter, I would like to congratulate Mr. SV and Mr. Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, who have brought this matter forward and raised it as high on the agenda as it actually is. I think this matter deserves it. Click to close the curve If we are to succeed, the many amazing opportunities we have in this country must be exploited better. The lack of initiatives by the judicial authorities in business policy means that opportunities remain untapped. It doesn't give us increased value creation and greater security for ordinary people. It only produces increased differences. Therefore, a passive industrial policy should have been replaced as quickly as possible by an active industrial policy that had put the country’s fantastic opportunities into practice. Click to close the curve I would like to take up with this the proposal that the Workers' Party has promoted together with SV. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e305	The representative of Terje Aasland has taken up the proposal he referred to. Click to close the curve It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e312	Over the past five years, a number of key messages and strategies have been presented in areas where Norway has a natural advantage and strong technology and competence environments. Business is doing well, thanks to a policy that contributes to this. The representative of Aasland is good at rhetoric, but less good at actual content. Investments by enterprises, both in the mainland and in the oil and gas industries, are rising, according to the NHO quarterly report submitted yesterday. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party writes about its active industrial policy in the sea, maritime sector, oil and gas, seafood, soil and forests, etc. My question is: what really distinguishes the policies of the Workers' Party and the Government in these areas, except that the Workers' Party will significantly increase the tax burden on business? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e317	Let me start by saying that I'm very happy that we agree very much on important things for business. It provides predictability and certainty, not least in some important framework conditions, such as: tax is. This is why the Workers' Party has been involved in tax settlements and tax compromises, such as: corporation tax has been significantly reduced. We are not in favour of the wealth tax discussion that the Right has started, because we believe it increases the differences. But I have also noticed that the right-wing parties have recently stopped the discussion on property taxes. It's no longer that they're going to remove it, it's something they said before the 2013 big shot. Click to close the curve So to the situation. The NHO quarterly report, the fourth report for 2018, shows a growth in the mainland economy of 2 pst. It is worryingly low at a time when the government has been talking about conversion, but is unable to do so. Investment in the mainland economy should be far higher in order to ensure sustainable, forward-looking industry and business that could secure jobs and, in particular, ensure increased value creation in the future. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e324	The Working Party refers in the setting to a Supreme Court ruling on the reduction of the reindeer, the so-called Sara case. They believe it would be right to await the UN Committee on Human Rights’ assessment before the Supreme Court judgment is enforced. Opinions of the UN Committee on Human Rights are, as you know, not legally binding on Norway. It is not a judgment on which the representative Pollestad was present, but only an opinion. Click to close the curve Does not the Workers' Party, which considers itself to be a state-bearing party, believe that this challenges the principle of power-allocation by the intervention of the Storting as legislative power in the execution of a judgment by the judiciary? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e331	For the Workers’ Party, it is essential that people living in this country who are engaged in nutrition or individuals may be allowed to use the instruments made, not only in Norway but also internationally, in order to promote their views and address what they consider to be unfair treatment of, for example: reduction in the pure number. When the actors bring this before the Human Rights Committee, we believe it is perfectly right to await the opinions of this committee before going to forced slaughter. What would you do with a link to this Human Rights Committee if you weren't waiting for the signals from there? It is strange to hear that one should break this line and start the killing before one has received this opinion. To me, it seems strange that the government parties, and possibly the Christian People's Party, are those who allow forced slaughter before the Human Rights Committee has been allowed to speak on this matter. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e336	If you didn't know it better, you could quite agree with the representative of Aasland, who talks well and well about what is predictable for business. We're dividing that. Both come from an industrial community and are engaged in industry, not least its possibilities. We agree that we need infrastructure to enable the industry to deliver goods. But then the unity stops. Last year, the Workers' Party was strongly opposed to machine taxes, which were very good for industry, and not least to the predictability for which Aasland's representative spoke well and well today. But I'm amazed when we talk about business and industry, because the Workers' Party is adding 5 billion. kr extra in the case of taxes on wealth. It's a little amazing if you're interested in predictability for business. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e341	What's amazing is that for so many years, government parties have invested so unilaterally in property taxes as the basis for growth in Norwegian business. It has been shown with all clarity over the five years that it has not worked. That is what causes concern. We believe that some of the quality in Norwegian society is that we contribute through taxes to good welfare solutions, such as childcare, school, health and elderly care, which in turn contribute to giving competitiveness to Norwegian business, we believe. That is why we have other answers in this regard, and therefore we dare, and believe it is right, to increase the wealth tax somewhat in order to strengthen the community and the community's efforts for society and not least the Community's ability to increase the competitiveness of Norwegian business by delivering good results in schools, education and research and by focusing on new, important tasks for Norwegian business. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e346	The cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e351	There is a lot of good going on in Norway. The right continues its ambitious government policy to create and maintain jobs. Labour market developments have been positive over time. Employment has grown faster than the population of pre-employment, and unemployment is falling — it is about 1 pst. lower than it was at its highest winter 2016. There are 56 000 new jobs created in the last year, and three-quarters of the new jobs are created in the private sector. This is about twice as many jobs as the Workers' Party promised would be created if they won the election last year. Click to close the curve It is now in these good times that a policy for the conversion of the Norwegian economy needs to be pursued, in order to create further growth, create more jobs and ensure that more bones are economically viable in the future. Click to close the curve Our policy improves the competitiveness of Norwegian business and provides the basis for higher investments and increased exports. Our welfare depends on most of the new jobs coming in private businesses. We must have more people who contribute to the state budget than who live in the state budget. Click to close the curve The budget for next year is a responsible budget, well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. The use of oil money is kept unchanged as a share of the mainland economy. Click to close the curve For Norwegian jobs and conversion into the Norwegian economy, it is important that a policy is pursued that takes care of the improvement we have had in competitiveness. It assumes that it is retained on public money. Click to close the curve Now, reports coming may seem like government policy is working. The NHO quarterly report, which was recently presented, states that investments by enterprises, both in the mainland and in the oil and gas industries, are on the way up. The same report also shows growth in both oil and corporate investment. The clouds that this report sees on the horizon are the struggle for labour. Click to close the curve The Workers' Party claims that they are engaged in pursuing a responsible economic policy, but as usual increases public spending in its alternative budget. It should be a cross-section of thinking for workers in the competitive sector that the Labour Party's policy jeopardizes Norwegian jobs. And at the top of it all, there's a Center Party that Lefler with the EEA Agreement, which is one of our most important tools to sell Norwegian products and thus secure jobs throughout the country. Click to close the curve The government continues to invest in growth-enhancing tax relief, reinforced infrastructure and good transport solutions across the country. In particular, the appropriations for, and the commitment to, research and knowledge are strengthened. This is a commitment that increases the growth capacity of the economy and supports it in the course of the necessary transformations. Click to close the curve The State budget also contributes to making the tax system more social by reducing the tax on property and electricity. With the 2019 budget, the government has reduced total taxes and taxes by under 25 billion. kr since we joined. A normal family with two full-time incomes receives about NOK 11000 in reduced tax. Click to close the curve In the 2019 budget, corporate tax is further reduced to 22 p.m. Norway has the highest rate in the Nordic region of corporate tax, despite the fact that we have reduced it year after year. The marginal tax rate on labour income is also lower for the vast majority. Tax breaks are important in order to pay off working and investing in Norway. Click to close the curve The right is concerned that the objective of fiscal policy is to create more, not to be taxed any more, as the Labour Party seems to think. When companies have room to invest, hire more and develop their products, they have a positive impact on the economy. More people come to work, providing financial security for the individual and for their families. Knowing that bills can be paid in time, and that unforeseen expenses do not mean family crisis, is the most important welfare that people can have. Click to close the curve In addition, the Right in Government continues to invest in road, rail and ports. This is one of the most important measures to improve the situation for Norwegian business — and for us others. Both people and goods are to emerge safely and quickly. With the Right in Government, investments in transport have increased by 75 pst. This is how we modernise our common infrastructure. Click to close the curve The focus on knowledge also continues, both at school, in higher education and in research. New jobs and the transition to new jobs take place through knowledge, innovation and research. This budget continues the government's clear commitment to industrial research and innovation by over 9 billion. kr in this budget – which is more than twice as much as when our government took over. Click to close the curve Over three billion. kr of this increase is due to the use of the TAX FUNN scheme by enterprises. Is there something I hear from the business managers when I travel around and visit them, there is the glory of the TaxFUNN scheme and that we have a clear priority of transportation in our budgets. I haven't met any company owners or employees who have called for regional development funds – other than state politicians from the opposition, of course. Click to close the curve Another important area for future growth is the marine industries. The aim of the government’s right-wing government is that Norway should continue to be a leading port in the future. Therefore, the sea bet is followed up by 0,5 billion. kr in this budget. This money goes, among other things, for waste management in developing countries. Many jobs here in Norway depend on clean seas, and what happens to marine pollution at global level is shown here in the north. That is why this strengthening is important. But not least, the prime minister's commitment to clean seas is important. The Prime Minister’s initiative for an international high-level panel on sustainable marine economy is central to this. Click to close the curve Another important industry for the country is the mineral industry, which has been central to Norwegian industrial development for several hundred years. In order to reduce processing time and ensure the sustainable management of mineral resources, the government proposes to increase the allocation to the Mineral Management Directorate by 6.8 million. kr. At the same time, 10 million will be granted. kr for increased monitoring of mineral resources. Click to close the curve Norway is the world’s best country to live in. This has not come about by itself, and there is no law of nature that it will be like this in the future. The budget that the Stortinget is going to adopt today is a budget that creates and distributes. This is how we guarantee the Norwegian model for the future. Click to close the curve This is the fifth state budget this government has presented, and which has been agreed upon in the Storting between the non-socialist parties. Over the five years, we have managed two major crises: the fall in oil prices in 2014 and the migration wave in 2015, and we have made small and large changes that mean a lot to the Norwegian everyday life. I hope that, in the future, we will also be able to address the major challenges that Norway is facing — mass and government together. Click to close the curve With the state budget for 2019, we provide a good basis for a greener, smarter and more innovative business life, for more in jobs, for a sustainable welfare society and for a better everyday life for you and me and everyone living in this country. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e393	It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e399	The Brønnøsund Registers manage 17 registers, as well as the Altinn Registers, today. They have been a great success. They have been able to provide both effective services to businesses and businesses and good reporting bases for the authorities, but in particular they have also been able to document how to establish a good and strong professional environment in the districts. Especially when we see the challenges we've had with ICT in Nav, the police and the health sector, it's good to see that you're doing as well as you do with Altin, who's been able to crack the code. Then it is very surprising that the government and the Minister of Industry consider moving Altin and putting it under diffi. It hasn't calmed down, but he says that Altinn's main activity is to stay in Brønnøysund. Click to close the curve What does the Right mean about weakening strong trade unions outside Oslo and shifting responsibility for Altinn to Diffi and thus reducing the Brønn Island Health Registers? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e406	Thank you for a very good question. It is good to get this question in Stortinget. There is no doubt that Altin is, as the representative says, world leader. They have delivered good quality on the job they have done. They have created good jobs and good solutions for business. They're offensive, forward and forward and take on new tasks all the time. Click to close the curve I think it's important, from the Biggest side, to be clear on what kind of message is being given. They're not saying that Altin should go under Diffi. It has never been said as a concrete message. It has been said that you are considering what kind of management solutions you should look at in the future. Moving Altinn to Diffi has never been an explicit wish, either from the government or the Minister of Industry. Altinn’s main activity shall be in Brønnøysund and shall be further developed in Brønnøysund. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e413	I understand that the representative Ebbesen is busy by Brønnøsundregistra and Altinn. This is important — it is important for business and, not least, there is an important job in Brønnøsund. Click to close the curve I just listened to her answer, and I listened to many good intentions and wishes for what should happen and not happen. But it's a fact that the government has seen a need to start a process, and there's been a problem where the Altin should be. What happens then often, and as the Center Party fears, is that when Oslo is one of the alternatives and the districts are another, the districts lose. Click to close the curve My question is: can the representative Ebbesen guarantee that the Right will not in any way support the movement of the whole or part of the Altin from Brønnøsundregistra to Digi? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e422	The representative Pollestad takes the view that workplaces should be moved to Oslo. This government has moved more jobs out of Oslo than the previous government did. Click to close the curve This government is concerned about development and is seeing new opportunities. This may mean that there are new opportunities for the Brønn Island Health registers in the future. It could also mean new possibilities for Altinn. I'm not going to guarantee any of the world's things, but I'm quite clear that as a representative, I'm going to work for the future development of Altin, as a world-leading registry. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e429	I noticed that the representative Ebbesen was at the peace-price distribution yesterday, and like me, she was probably touched by the courage shown by the individuals in the fight against injustice. Human rights were also central yesterday – it was the UN Day for the establishment of human rights. Click to close the curve On the table today, we have a case where we're actually being directly challenged by human rights. A Supreme Court ruling went against the claim of Jovsset Ante Sara and said that one should coerce his flock. This has been entered by the Directorate for Agriculture to take place during the Christmas season. In the Supreme Court judgment, it is clear that the UN Supreme Court Committee on Human Rights is at the heart of this, but there is considerable discussion about the correct understanding of the UN Committee on Human Rights. Why will the representative Ebbesen not support the requirement to wait with the decision on coercive measures until after the UN Committee on Human Rights has tabled a question? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e436	I think it's a little bit important that we separate the roles here and be clear and clear about what we're really talking about. We're not talking about a human rights court sentence. We are talking about a committee to deliver an opinion, a committee – a committee – that has no judicial authority over the Norwegian Supreme Court. We have a Supreme Court judgment that we as a magnification are going to deal with. If you want to change the law or the institutions, the relationship between the Storting as a legislative authority and the courts as a judicial authority, you have a completely different opinion than I do. I'm dealing with the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court judgment. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e441	So the line change is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e446	The government has submitted a draft budget aimed at increasing employment and competitiveness and facilitating job creation in the private sector. Indeed, it is the private sector that is the basis of a sustainable welfare society. The Norwegian economy is on its way up, and unemployment after the fall in oil prices is on its way down. There's a lot of government profits, even though the oil price may not be. Click to close the curve A good food budget was even better after the budget agreement with the Christian People's Party. However, as a result of the budgetary negotiations between the government parties and the Christian People's Party, Color Line will not be allowed to be re-flagged from the Norwegian Ordinary Skip Register to the Norwegian International Skip Register. This ensures that 700 employees in the shipping company keep their jobs. This has been a battle cause for the Advance Party for a long time. We want to protect Norwegian competence on a Norwegian base, and I have great faith that this decision means that we will have Norwegian seafarers in the Norwegian fleet in the future as well. Click to close the curve For the Progress Party, it has been important in this matter to have a thorough review of the information that comes out at all times. That's what we got here, we've had a good process. It has also been important for the Progress Party to reach an agreement on this matter, it would be a consensus that the entire government was in. Click to close the curve I would particularly like to thank the representative Steinar Reiten of the Christian People's Party for a very good dialogue and cooperation in this matter. It's helped to provide a breakthrough that we've been working on together. Click to close the curve Norwegian oil and gas will be important for the Norwegian economy and employment in the foreseeable future. But it's equally important to give the Norwegian economy more legs to stand on. Mineral industry has a particularly high potential. Minerals and metals are part of almost all product production and are particularly important towards the green shift. Stable supply of minerals is a prerequisite for economic growth in many of our trading partners. Minerals can therefore become a major Norwegian export product. The resources are there, and they must be exploited. The mineral industry is a field of activity for the government, and it is a desire to facilitate new activity and growth. They increased the appropriations allocated to the Directorate for Mineral Management by 6.8 million. kr and to Norway’s 10 million geological survey. kr are important signals to investors and mining companies that the mineral industry is a priority industry in the future. As I said, it has a great potential. Click to close the curve However, what is a challenge is not the allocation of geological studies. It is rather that the industry is throughbureaucratic. There are hugely long application processes, and it scares away investors and others who would like to bet. Therefore, it is now positive that the government signals that they want to look at processes and processing time, so that years of waiting and extensive use of resources can be avoided. It is important to give these signals to the industry. Click to close the curve With this government, the peasants have gained greater freedom to determine their own finances, their own property and their own production. This has resulted in increased food production and good income development for Norwegian farmers. Food production has never been bigger than it is now. Self-sufficiency has never been greater than now. Improvements in agricultural efficiency, competitiveness of Norwegian agricultural products and innovation and innovation are being facilitated across the whole sector. Click to close the curve The representative Pollestad stated that the outcome of this government's industrial policy can be seen. Yes, we can see the outcome of the policy we are pursuing. During the previous government there was underproduction of almost most Norwegian agriculture. Now we've had enough and so it's in some areas, even though Nortura is clear that for both sheep meat and beef, it's going to be a balance or a little under-cover. It was interesting to hear the representative Pollestad say that overproduction is married to Norwegian farmers. I will then be told that underproduction is married to Norwegian consumers, because Norwegian consumers are actually buying the food that the farmers produce. Click to close the curve The Government will continue to invest in infrastructure measures in forestry, with the aim of strengthening the industry’s profitability and competitiveness, as provided by the Jeleia platform. It's been granted about 760 million. kr for forest roads and timber mecodies in 2014. This has helped to increase the efficiency and efficiency of the industry. Click to close the curve It is not all that the committee disagrees on. Norecopa, under the auspices of the Veterinary Institute, is doing a very good job of reducing the use of animal testing and reducing animal suffering in the context of procedures. A unanimous committee agrees that the financial framework for Norecopa should be maintained at least at the same level as in 2018. In addition, the Committee believes that sufficient funds should still be provided for a full position in the Norecopa Secretariat and that they should receive operational funds of DKK 250000. It must be said that Norecopa, at least since I joined the committee, has been the baby of the committee, and the committee agrees on the bet on Norecopa. Click to close the curve The party believes that the horse industry is important to many in society and in the districts. Law 1 July 1927 No. 3 on bets by the toalisator states that part of the bets in horse games should go to the State. This levy has no sectoral policy purpose at present, and the Progress Party believes that income should go towards strengthening horse-riding, horse-riding and Norwegian horse-bred breeding. This could help to maintain the offer to many of the country's horse and riding interests. Oslo Economics’ report on the evaluation of Norsk Tippings and Norsk Rikstototo’s organisation and practice concluded that a new device of the toaliser charge could strengthen the economic framework conditions of horse sport. It is therefore gratifying that almost the entire Committee took part in the comments of the Progress Party, where we together ask the government to make an assessment of the totalization fee and its arrangements. I think it'll be good for the horse sport. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e471	It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e476	What frustrates me is when the government does not follow very clear majority decisions, especially as long as the majority decisions directly have implications for the human life situation and their ability to produce food. A decision taken in this way in the Storting is the decision on the management of the wolf, which was taken by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party. In my opinion – and perhaps also in the opinion of the representative Ørsal Johansen – this has not been followed up by the government. I even believe that the government has an arrogant approach to a very clear majority decision in the Storting. The wolf zone now appears more and more as a wolf reserve, something the Stortinget underlined was not to happen. Click to close the curve My question to the representative Ørsal Johansen is whether he agrees that the government has followed up a very clear majority decision in Stortinget in a very poor way. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e483	There have been many discussions about both the predatory and the wolf settlement. The ministry has told them to come up with an assessment of whether these have been followed up, and I look forward, like the Aasland representative, to that very thing. Click to close the curve The question of whether the wolf zone has become a reserve remains to be seen. The answer to that will be given before Christmas, as the matter of killing within the zone will be settled. If there is a positive decision for withdrawal, the matter is in one light, but if the result is something else, we get a completely different discussion. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e497	Use of pastures is one of the most environmentally friendly and sustainable ways we can produce food in Norway. Now we have a big problem in getting it done: predatory game and especially wolf inside and outside the wolf zone. Farmers and the agricultural industry are in despair because there are increasing numbers of predators with the Left in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, which go heavily beyond industries. But it doesn't seem that the business community of the government wants to do anything to stop Left's protection policy. Click to close the curve Now we're waiting for a decision on whether or not to shoot wolves within the wolf zone. It is set to shoot wolves within the wolf zone. It is quite clear that it is necessary to shoot wolves within the wolf zone if you are to approach the predatory game settlement at all. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e504	Ørsal Johansen – please. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e509	I assume that the question is whether the Progress Party agrees that it should be taken out within the zone – or perhaps the question is what will happen if not. I agree with the questioner that predatory game is a major challenge. I myself live in a state and in a region that is plagued by the predatory situation, and that is very concerned about this. Click to close the curve In the case of killing within the zone, I believe that it should be quite clear: it is agreed that as long as the stock target is reached, it is the local predators who are to set the limit of licensing. In this case, the stock target has been reached, and then I expect the council to deal with the decisions made in the predatory wildlife subjects. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e516	The cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e521	The imminent challenge for Norway is two-fold. On the one hand, we have climate change that seems to only increase momentum and speed, and on the other hand, we have a deep oil dependency in Norway, which makes us face a double challenge. We have to do something in Norway, locally, nationally and globally to get out of the climate crisis, and then we have to do something fundamental with the way the Norwegian economy is structured that means that we are not so oil addicts in a future that really cannot be oil dependent. Click to close the curve The situation is that the oil dependency in Norway is increasing. She's not going down, she's increasing. It's just to look at the deficit in mainland Norway, which has increased by about 70 pst, which illustrates this. If one were to become more dependent on other things than the petroleum income, it would have to be a reduced deficit. The bottom's got extra. Emissions under this government have increased. We have also seen industrial decline in recent years. Now industry is only 8 pst. of the gross domestic product and our value added, but one thinks that one has to be about 20 pst. if one is to have a healthy economy. The use of oil money is almost doubling under this government, and the only thing we can see is that the richest have become richer. We don't see any signs of new, green workplaces, which were the whole intention behind it. So you can ask yourself, where was the value creation in this government? When will one begin to care about value creation and industrial development and less about the owners and those who are on the capital, and that they will sit again with even more? Click to close the curve We also know that costs will increase for every year that goes with paralysis. If you don't really start turning now, it will cost Norway more when an actual has to. This is behind the criticism from SV. SV is, something many might be surprised about, the party that has the largest food budget – not because we consider it a Norwegian championship in having the largest food budget, but because it's urgent. We have enormous possibilities that we point to, from CCS to national investment in the bio-industry at large, building up a bio-industry, bringing the seas back and land into use, and single seas, soil and forest in a greater focus on renewable inputs. We want to turn the skills that are in the petroleum industry, into other industries and industries. We're putting up a completely different bet on depreciation in the industry, which makes Norway competitive. We have a focus on environmental technology and digitalisation. All in all, several of the proposals, which are call-for decisions – the minority proposals – are about twisting the effort so that innovation in Norway, the nutrition right initiative of the Research Council and the purchasing policy are about one thing – the big green shift. That's what we're put here to do. Click to close the curve So two singles, first cut into the fishing log. It's quite incomprehensible to me. Take the representative Andre N. Skjelstad's home state: 97 pst. of the trundish fishing fleet is less than 10 metres, hence they are totally dependent on the guide thrusts to get their raw material transported to the facilities. Rørvik Fisk is now afraid for the future, the only facility in the Nord-Trøndelag that has all-year jobs. They're going to lose massively on this. Hitramat, the country's largest crab, is going to lose massively on this. What is the reason why the government is pursuing and hunting the smallest fishing fleet in this country? This weakens the fall of the sea, weakens the use of the coast and, not least, weakens coastal communities. It's completely incomprehensible to me. So there I really hope that the Progress Party comes with the same question that they asked to several others when it came to Jovsset Ánte Sara-saka – just to separate snows and bars, which is a linguistic expression. Click to close the curve Some believe that the UN Committee on Human Rights has no significance in the Norwegian legal system. That's wrong. I refer then to Jens Edvin A. Skoghöhe, a judge of the Supreme Court, who has carried out a major thesis on this issue. First of all, we have laid down the civil and political rights in the Law, Section 2 of the Human Rights Act. The civil and political courts of the United Nations lie there. Then the issue of the European Court of Human Rights and the United Nations Committee on Human Rights is to be treated equally. According to the Official Journal of the European Union of 2008 page 1764, they are to be treated in the same way, and Norway has always adhered to it. So to me, it's incomprehensible why you don't stick to it in this case... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e534	Would the representative like to make proposals? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e539	I'm dealing with the suggestions SV is on its own. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e544	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes then addressed the proposals he referred to. Click to close the curve It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e551	The representative said in his post that we must be more concerned with value creation and less of owners. I applaud that, and I hope SV wants to be in the future. It brings me to an important industry: SV was one of the driving forces behind the kindergarten agreement, and when the job with full coverage was to be done, private operators were applauded by the left side, with SV in the head. That's it. Now these are being presented as a social problem. Owners are described as ‘welfare barons’ and ‘welfare profitors’, and those who work in kindergarten, and the hundreds of thousands of happy children and parents who use the offer are unknown. They just see that SV wants them and the industry alive, not just rhetorical, but real. Perhaps the representative can reassure them by sending them a greeting here and now – especially to women and entrepreneurs who folded up the sleeves and made SV's nursery dream possible. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e556	Firstly, it is paradoxical that the representative initially agrees with SV that we need to focus more on value creation and less on owners, because that is what is at the heart of this issue. We have a government that, over its five years, has unfailingly oriented itself towards the owners, who have unfailingly suggested that they get a better economy, in the belief that it will lead to value creation – and it has not. So keep going the same strategy, and one sees that it actually doesn't have any use. The same applies to the nursery sector. Here we have a system where SV - for several rounds - has wanted to tighten up the ability to make dividends, to reduce the possibility of doing so, and where the right side actually wants to add that these players should be able to take out super profit, as we have seen in many cases. I mean that all money for well-being should go to well-being. There should be no private profit tool. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e564	In order to ensure ecologically sustainable reindeer management, it has been necessary to adapt the reindeer to the grazing basis. It's got an almost total amount of stuff standing behind it. 230 of 231 orders are followed. Today there is only one remaining, and this SV, if I understand correctly, will not implement. It will set the precedent for the 230 who have been loyal and followed the decision to reduce. This would weaken the confidence of reindeer management, as it would be contrary to the principles of non-discrimination and predictability. Is it not challenging for the environmental party SV to be so to the degrees in the tail with, among other things. The animal protection alliance, which is concerned with ecological sustainability and the reduction of the number of tamrein, so as to avoid malnutrition and starvation disasters, as has been seen in some areas of domestic farming? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e569	I think the Animal Alliance would rather be critical of the Progress Party, because they want to slaughter animals unnecessarily – in this case. Click to close the curve We have been strongly critical of the policy we have pursued in the area of slaughter, because it has been completely blinded. He has been a collective punishment of large pastures, he has not framed those who have actually contributed the most to an increase. After all, in many ways it has been an attack on an autonomy that we have committed ourselves to – all the parties here on the Stortinget – through our indigenous policy, through our human rights policy. It is an autonomy that must be exercised by actors locally. Click to close the curve So I've noticed that Strifeldt thinks that one should not comply with the UN Committee on Human Rights. Since we entered that convention, we have always complied with the UN Committee on Human Rights. He's always been important to Supreme Court decisions, that's what we're about to test at an international level, and that's what this representative doesn't want us to check. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e578	Being a magnifying representative leads to a heavy responsibility, sometimes so heavy that it is difficult to bear. But one of the things that is our responsibility is to ensure equal treatment for the inhabitants of the country when burden is to be distributed. It is important to clarify that the individual issue we are talking about here is not unique, but part of the large scale adjustment carried out in Finnmark between 2005 and 2015. 231 side parts were ordered to reduce their purity. 230 did so, with the burdens it entailed — failure of the income base and the problem around it. How does the representative Knag County assess their responsibility to treat people the same according to the law when burden is to be distributed? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e583	Section 2 of the Human Rights Act explicitly states that we should follow up the UN human rights laws, both civil and political. In the event of a conflict, the claims shall take precedence over other laws. Click to close the curve What I'm very excited about right-wing representative Reten's response is the proposal that's in the room now, and that's whether we should await the implementation of that coercive decision after the UN Human Rights Committee has made its assessment. For this is seen in all legal circles as a big signal case, a big principle case, because it is a test of whether the Norwegian reindeer policy keeps water humanely, and there are things that could indicate that he does not keep water. But if one today only implements this coercive decision without regard to it, and without regard to the fact that one takes the living away from individuals by slaughtering many animals, I believe that one really has not taken full responsibility as a wholesaler. Click to close the curve [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e590	The cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e595	The key to Norwegian job creation has always been innovation. Consider an industrial giant like Hydro, who began his journey by developing a method for the use of electricity to bind nitrogen in the air by Sam Eyde and Kristian Birkeland, or Kongsberg Arm Factory’s development of the Krag-Jørgensen gun – if not otherwise. Common to both was that innovation was at the centre. Click to close the curve Today, Norway is not able to claim itself on a daily basis on the basis of competitive pay conditions or central geographic location. We have a small population on the world scale and are scattered across a large and diverse country. On the other hand, what we have always had as a competitive advantage are wise heads and innovative solutions, which have enabled this piggy country to deliver innovation ever since independence from Sweden. Click to close the curve Today, it is still our competitive advantage. Therefore, it is important that the government constantly grinds the tools that build up under innovation. The government’s two possible major changes in next year’s government budget are in such a way that the innovation loan scheme for Innovation Norway is increased by 300 million. kr, for a total of SEK 1.2 billion. kr. Such loans are essential for start-up enterprises, such as: ContinYou from Rogaland, a health technology company that has been able to grow and escalate, among others. because of innovation loans. Click to close the curve In addition to strengthening the Innovation Loan Facility, in particular: 200 million bets. kr more to Nysnø Climate investment, on which the Left has been heating for a long time, not least Terje Breivik, who is the father of the fund in many ways. Now the fund will be strengthened by another 200 million. kr, which means that this is well on the way to becoming a real source of funding for the green innovation products in Norway. These are jobs that can be created throughout the country, which will constitute a support bar in the future economy. Click to close the curve That we'll also bet 40 million. kr to technical-industrial institutes, is a further confirmation that whenever the government thinks about innovation, it thinks about industrial innovation. Norway is blessed with a number of strong technical and industrial institutes that contribute to innovation and innovation. The fact that we do not gather resources in one place, but distribute them to a number of institutions around the country also means that the innovation they contribute to is not being accumulated in one big city, but that instead they build up under an active business life throughout the country. The strong commitment to the Norwegian industry means that the institutes provide knowledge that is relevant and timely to the development of business. We must also bear in mind that it is in an interplay between industry and science that industrial innovation is created. Click to close the curve These are some of the efforts made in the 2019 budget proposal. They build up under the government's long-term investment in small and medium-sized enterprises. In 2019, the government proposes to spend more than 9.7 billion. kr for industrial research and innovation. At the same time, we lower company taxes and taxes on working capital. In addition, the year’s budget represents something historic: we equate entrepreneurs with ordinary access to pension savings. It is historic for a party that has the fight for the rights of entrepreneurs and small businesses in its DNA. Click to close the curve That is why it is a pleasure to defend this budget in the Chamber. A government budget that pays attention to those who run for themselves, those who have new ideas, and those who lay the basis for Norway's next industrial venture, is a budget with a clear left-wing image. Click to close the curve In addition, it is important to remember that there are real differences in industrial policy, including: that the socialist parties wish to significantly increase their wealth tax, the Workers' Party by 5 billion. kr, SV with a total of 9 billion. kr – a struppet roof in Norwegian value creation. The centre party will also be in that harange and would like to notify us out of the EEA. We have previously been in the debate here in favour of the EEA. However, despite the fact that the coast – and Norwegian district work places – gets great, high value from the EEA they will continue to notify us out of the EEA. That resistance they've been crystal clear on, without saying what the consequence is, necessarily. Click to close the curve Fortunately, these parties do not have a majority. What kind of predictability could this provide, not least for a district industry that we have, with aquaculture, fisheries, which would then also be a clear strengthening of the future? This, on the other hand, wants the Center Party in many ways to say that it does not have the great value for the future that some of us think it has. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e616	It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e621	Democracy in Norway, the Stortinget, has decided that the stockpiles target for wolves should be between 4 and 6 young people per year. Now the number is 10,5 – that is, the population has become twice the size of what the Great Britain has decided democratically. In this situation, Trine Skei Grande says that, through the government negotiations, there will be an even greater increase, an even larger population – and that happens right after the summer, with one of the major predatory accidents in modern times, in the north-east valley, and there was also a wolf in Trøndelag. Click to close the curve What will the Left's representative in the Business Committee do to prevent this from becoming an even worse outcome for the grazing industry? Or does he agree with party leader Trine Skei Grande that the stock will grow even more? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e628	There is no doubt that in grazing areas this is a challenge, whether it is wolf or other predators. That's it. There are rare predators and grazing animals go particularly well in hops. Click to close the curve The undersigned relates to the predatory comparisons taken by the Storting. We too, as a party, have to do, regardless of whether the party naturally has the right to have its principal policy. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e635	The left considers itself to be concerned with volunteering and organisational life. The representative of Skjelstad presents a rose-painted picture of historical investments in this year's budget. What is not historical, on the other hand, is the fact that support to organisations has been weakened every year for the last five years. Here, the Left is failing in a case where they could have actually found together with the Center Party. Click to close the curve A review of the support to organisations for the conversion of the scheme from 2020 has now been announced. What will a review of new information when the status today is that organisations are starving? How can the Left be a champion of organisations when they do not have the ability to secure more funds for organisational life? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e642	The short-term memory is not always the best, but we can remember from last year, when the Left and the Christian People's Party – the Left did not join the government then – was put in place in many ways, among others. funds to the organisations. Click to close the curve It is important to have a review just to create the predictability that the representative is looking for here. Because it can't be that this swings from year to year, we have to have predictability. It also means that volunteering will be strengthened, precisely through the predictability that is being called for here. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e650	There is no doubt that organisations such as 4H, the Building Youth Act and others are important for agriculture and for the rural culture of Norway. The only thing that's been good since 2013 with the parties that's been running is that year after year, these organizations were cut, first by the government, and then back to the same level of the Christian People's Party and the Left. But the reality is that support has declined year by year because the crown value is fixed. Click to close the curve In addition, we have a story where 4H lost office space across the county, so they are a significant framework of policy for this plural. Then my question is: does the Left not see that these organisations have an important role to play in developing and developing agricultural and rural culture in Norway? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e657	There is no doubt that 4H and many of these organisations have a very important role. The importance of 4H's role at the County Council can always be discussed, but that 4H, rural youth and many others have a major role both in rural culture and agriculture, there is little or no doubt about it. Click to close the curve But then it's like this, which I also tried to answer to the previous replicator, that if we're going to do this in a way that creates a greater degree of predictability, I think we need to take a real round of it and see what the future brings, precisely because these organizations should have such a proper predictability, even for their future economy. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e664	The cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e669	Today we are going to deal with the food chapter of the state budget, and we have therefore come to that part of the budget where the values are created. These are values that enable us to finance a welfare state and help Norway to continue to be a good country to live in in, with low unemployment and a comprehensive social security network. It is in that context nearby to mention a man who has been an inspiration to many in the Christian People's Party, Hans Nielsen Hauge. Hauge saw jobs as a means of lifting people out of poverty, equipping individuals and building society. It was industry development with a higher opinion, if you will. Click to close the curve The catchwords were soberness and accountability. Capital was used to build the business rather than to increase personal consumption and luxury. Dividends were small, but still went to reinvestment in new enterprises. These are principles for health and social activities that are as valid today as they are then. Click to close the curve This year too, the Christian People's Party has been involved in negotiating a budgetary union with the government, and we have managed to go a good budget for our country. For the Christian People's Party's industry, it has been a major issue this year in the negotiations to strengthen the incentive subsidy to veterinarians. Fewer agricultural units in parts of District Norway no longer provide a nutritional basis for sufficient numbers of veterinarians to ensure veterinary preparedness throughout the year throughout the country. This leads to unwarranted work loads, makes the system vulnerable and leads to impaired preparedness for serious animal diseases and trachea. The Christian People's Party is therefore happy that we've got 30 million in place. NOK to this. We're also very pleased that we've had a positive impact on the grant of $7 million. kr to food centres, which do a very valuable job of reducing food waste. Click to close the curve The Christian People's Party has also helped the government parties to increase the funding for the MAROFF programme by 25 million. kr. This is an important project, an important institution, for many maritime companies – not least in my home state, More and Romesdal. At a time when the arrows begin to point up again, after a hard downturn for the petroleum-related industries in our county, it is very important that fresh funds are made available for research and development. Strengthening the MAROFF programme will therefore stimulate conversion and new growth in a demanding time for the maritime industries. Click to close the curve Furthermore, there is one issue from which it is difficult to come, and it is that a unanimous enlargement today determines that there will be no change in the timetable for foreign ferries. This is a matter which has been going on for a long time, and which has created a great deal of uncertainty in the lives of many employees on board ships who were involved in the conversion from NOR to NIS, and for their families. In the Christian People's Party, we are very pleased that we have now got this matter settled, after good dialogue with the government, both in the context of the treatment of the revised national budget and in the negotiations on the state budget for 2019. Click to close the curve Fishing has been and will be an important cornerstone of Norwegian coastal communities and is one of our most important export industries, which is becoming increasingly important. Not all fishing boats can equidistant. Not all fish recipients can be located right where the fish is landed. Therefore, the leadership grant is important. The Christian People's Party is well pleased that we have put in place an increase in the leadership grant of 10 million. kr. This is a subsidy for the transport of fresh fish and crustaceans from areas with poor reception capacity to processing plants and is important to ensure acceptable delivery conditions for the smallest coastal vessels. Click to close the curve The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the Committee has managed to gather around some important comments. First of all, I would like to mention that Brønnøysund should not be weakened by restructuring in relation to responsibilities vis-à-vis Diffi. It is important for the environment of competence that we have in Brønnøysund, but also for deciding that jobs should not be moved away from the districts and into Oslo. Click to close the curve The Christian People's Party also believes it is important that the Storting reaffirms that the biological processes in agriculture should not trigger greenhouse gas taxes, and asks the government to base this on the climate negotiations with agriculture. It is an important principle, which means that we can still have food production in Norway and prevent carbon leakage. Click to close the curve The Christian People's Party believes that we have made important changes to the budget and the country a settlement that is good for our country in the coming year. With this, we are involved in building jobs and building the safe welfare of future generations. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e690	It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e695	Until today, the government parties and the Christian People's Party have spent a lot of time defending why Jovsset Ánte Sara should not be allowed to use the organs and systems we have to try her case. So you defend why you have to slaughter a whole life base. Click to close the curve Sara is a young reindeer who now faces an uncertain time. All he wants is to try his case on the UN Human Rights Committee. We here in this hall can actually help make a difference. The Christian People's Party can actually make that difference. You can choose to participate and create a majority together with the Centre Party, SV and the Labour Party to wait, or you can support coercion. Click to close the curve There was a strong meeting in the hiking hall instead, not for no reason. My question is, why is it so important for the Christian People's Party to force slaughter now rather than to wait in this matter? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e704	This matter has a personal and human side, but it presents both the undersigned and the representative Myrseth with the heavy responsibility we have as legislators to ensure equal treatment under the law. There is a Supreme Court judgment which thoroughly assesses the aspects of international law within the meaning of Article 27 of the SP. Firstly, it concludes that the provision for a proportionate reduction in the purity of all the 231 side-shares concerned is given in the interest of the reindeer operator, i.e. in order to ensure sustainable reindeer management as a supporting element in the Sami culture. Click to close the curve We in the Christian People's Party have had a dialogue with the Department on this matter. Based on the answers we have received, which are based on a thorough legal assessment of both the Supreme Court and the Ministry, we have chosen not to vote for a proposal that will lead the Stortinget into a grey zone between the legislature and the judiciary. We also believe that the correct address to go into detail on the reasons is the responsible State Council. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e711	I want to follow up on the same thing as the previous one. The representative riding is known to be thorough and accurate in what he does. But in this case I wonder a little bit, because I have read in the press that questions are asked about why this case has not been brought before the European Court of Human Rights. If a person reads the Supreme Court judgment, it is quite clear that the Civil and Political Courts Convention, Article 27, is the whole of the judgment on which it is based. It is not the European Court of Human Rights that assesses him, it is the body of the United Nations and the Committee on Human Rights. That's where this thing belongs. Click to close the curve My question is, why won't you expect the enforcement measures to be carried out? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e718	What the representative Pollestad says is not entirely correct, because Sara complained about her case by referring both to the European Convention on Human Rights and to Article 27 of the SP. As far as the European Convention on Human Rights is concerned, it was a matter of private property, so that track has then chosen not to follow. But then it is up to the Norwegian Supreme Court to interpret SP Article 27. It's the Supreme Court domain. And the fact that the Supreme Court has passed such a judgment, with such a thorough review of Article 27 SP, we believe, and the Stortinge has no alternative but to accept the decision of the Supreme Court. We don't want to bring Stortinget into a grey zone between legislative and judicial authorities. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e723	The riding reasoning is based on a big mistake, because here is a question of whether we should stick to the promise or not. In the laws, Norway has joined the civil and political courts through the UN, and as a source of justice, assessments made by the United Nations Committee on Human Rights are of the same value for states that have acceded to the Convention, such as the United Nations Committee on Human Rights. European Court of Human Rights. We have also introduced individual rights of appeal; we are in line with that protocol in the UN Committee on Human Rights. That means that Jovsset Ánte Sara has filed an appeal against various courts, including the Supreme Court, which refers to the UN Human Rights Committee's previous assessments. Then he complains further to the United Nations Committee on Human Rights. These are natural steps because we're bound by these laws. It is Norwegian case law that we wait until we have received a last assessment. Why does the representative not want to do so in this case? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e728	In the proposal promoted by the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party, there is implicitly an understanding that the Supreme Court may have done something wrong after having stated its opinion. It is the case that it is the judgment of the Supreme Court to make the final interpretation of matters relating to the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights. I am aware of what is stated in Section 2 of the Human Rights Act. We are all, but we choose to relate to the fact that when the Supreme Court has pronounced itself here, it applies until something else is said. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e734	The cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e739	Norway is a rich country – we are rich in natural resources, knowledge, community and capital. And we're a small country -- we have the opportunity to turn around quickly if we need it. Click to close the curve So we have the best possible starting point for an active enterprise policy that is not just related to social development, but that contributes to the social development that we all need, the one that benefits us the most – in Norway and in the world. Click to close the curve But today we're not hanging out. Two weeks ago, the European Commission presented a proposal for a new EU climate strategy. The objective is a climate-neutral EU by 2050, which means a reduction in energy imports into the EU of a total of 70pst. Especially oil and gas imports will be drastically reduced much faster than we and the International Energy Agency have so far believed. This is currently Norway’s gas market, and they would rather invest in their own renewable energy. Click to close the curve From the past, we know that the International Monetary Fund warns against higher unemployment unless Norway reduces oil investment. The Green Competitiveness Expert Committee of the Government agrees. Click to close the curve Direct oil liquidation must be guided by offensive green industrial policy. Innovation Norway has surveyed what businesses in Norway think we should work with after oil. The answer is, as many know, bioeconomy, clean energy, the sea, health, creative industries, travel and smart cities. It's a bug of possibilities. Click to close the curve In the Greens/Greens/Greens/EFA alternative state budget, we make it easier to start and run our own business. We propose targeting innovation funds and supporting maritime and marine industries, bioeconomy, industry and renewable energy. And we take care of the jobs we already have, and make them greener. On the road to a climate-neutral EU, low carbon pressure and high environmental standards, such as the re-use of minerals and materials rather than the continuous exploitation of new natural resources, are a competitive advantage for any Norwegian enterprise. Click to close the curve We're also proposing to set of 2 billion. kr in equity of a ‘Bionova’, following the model of Enova, which is to systematise innovation and increase the commercialisation of bio-based value creation. An example of this is increased efforts for the development of Norwegian protein that can replace imported soya in animal and fish feed. Click to close the curve At a time when climate change and food security are deteriorating, it should be a priority for the Business Committee to increase self-sufficiency – through innovation, but also by taking in knowledge that we already have on all-round and long-term management of the earth. Click to close the curve It takes 2000 years to make 10 cm good food soil. So we have to go back to the birth of Jesus, which many of us are about to celebrate with good food in good food, to see the beginning of much of the food earth still reaps today. But building up food soil requires only a decision in a government with a tight budget that wants a reasonable solution for its new kindergarten – or it requires a government, like the one we have today, which is not willing to give priority to the food soil in large commercial matters, because it costs a little bit extra. Click to close the curve We in the Green Party wholeheartedly support the minority proposals in the position that could have strengthened soil protection. Most importantly, the proposals of the SV and the Senterpartiet to grant access to the permanent protection of cultivated land and to require the County to authorise the re-disposal of food soils. For decisions, the closest possible people should be taken and local decisions should be taken locally. Click to close the curve But soil protection is not a local matter. In practice, local people are today faced with an impossible situation where they need to prioritise between national interests, such as soil protection, and local needs – for a new kindergarten, or for new jobs. It's almost always possible not to build up food soil, but it costs a little bit extra. And there are examples of municipalities in Norway that experience that builders have so much power that if they can't build on flat, virgin land, they threaten to go to the neighbouring municipality and build there instead. Click to close the curve Matjorda in Norway is today exposed to a tragic carnage, where there are no adults at home. And not only does the food soil lack a chair, it falls between absolutely all the chairs in the room: between the Departments of Transportation, Municipalities and Agriculture, and between state, state and municipality. Click to close the curve The size still has the opportunity to give the food soil a fixed chair for Christmas, and vote in favour of the proposal to at least ask the government for the possibility of a real national protection of our best food soil. Click to close the curve We also have the opportunity to give Jovsset Ánte Sara and other young reindeers a Christmas present and wait with the slaughter of the reindeer until the UN has pronounced itself. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e771	That's great. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e776	We use the Toolbox, and we have a lot of tools in the Toolbox. We used the toolbox during the oil price drop, when we experienced unemployment, especially in the South and Western countries, but we are also using it now to equip Norway for the future and to secure what is needed to create a sustainable welfare society. Click to close the curve At the same time, industrial policy and an offensive industrial policy are today different from that of the 1970s and well into the 1980s. It's not about protecting businesses from competition, it's not about maintaining unprofitable jobs, it's not about trying to steer things against what the market requires, it's about supporting up under knowledge, digitisation, conversion and a green shift. It's a good business policy. Click to close the curve A strong, diverse and competitive private business is essential for a sustainable welfare society. Of course, it's not like you don't create values in public. It's not that making a bag of potato gold is value creation, while making people healthy or teaching them isn't. However, it is equally full that three-quarters of the value creation in Norway takes place in the private sector. It's private jobs we're talking about, it's private-made welfare we're talking about. Therefore, we should be concerned that in the public debate there seems to be less discussion of value creation than before. Less people ask the question before adopting a new policy: what will this actually lead to for jobs and value creation in the private sector? There are several people who talk about private business and come up with new nicknames for those who work and create values, instead of agreeing to talk it up. Click to close the curve Parts of the opposition have sometimes approached what is an alliance against private value creation, where they systematically in policy areas will make it more difficult to create and maintain private jobs for the future. Not least, it's important because we're in the middle of a green shift, and just in a green shift, you can't make a distinction between good business policy and green business policy. One cannot be opposed to private business, or at least pursue a policy that is bad for private business, and so expect the same private business to be innovative, develop new technologies and create new green jobs. Click to close the curve This is the starting point for government policy, and this is the starting point for budgetary reconciliation. And you can see the results since 2013 – because we have invested in the long-term and not just in each budget. For example, the Research Council, the Industrial Research Council, is further strengthened in the year’s budget. We're proposing $9.7 billion. kr for nutrient research. In total, it's been a double since 2013. It has been further strengthened, not least through good sea bets, following the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party. Click to close the curve We continue to bet on triggering more capital, among other things. by increasing the Innovation Loan Facility framework in Innovation Norway. Click to close the curve We have to keep simplifying. The goal is to reduce costs by 10 billion. kr from 2017 to 2023. We have to do more. Brønnøysund through Altinn is the engine of the government's negotiating work. And let me just say that, since it was up in the round of questions, about the Brønnøsund registers and Altinn: Altinn is going to be in Brønnøysund, hitting the Altinn with today's Diffi doesn't seem to be a particularly attractive solution. Click to close the curve We're going to do more in digitisation by following up on Digital21. Click to close the curve We also need new reforms because our tool, although much works well, can often be too unpredictable, especially for small businesses. That is why we are working on a full review of the instrument to see how we can better hit the industries. Click to close the curve We're going to put forward a space strategy, and in this context, we have at the forefront of it 378.5 million. kr for capital injections to Space Norway AS, which some parties on the Stortinget chose to create major problems around, but which in reality contribute to better communication solutions in the northern regions. Click to close the curve We are pursuing an ambitious climate policy because it is linked to an ambitious industrial policy, including: by adding to Nysnø Climate investment AS an allocation of 400 million. kr. Click to close the curve We continue the great effort at sea, through both research and innovation. And we're raising industries that really get a little too little attention, but that's actually crucial in the green shift, like the mineral industry. It's worth $17 million. In addition, both to get rid of cows in the directorate and to find new areas and new mineral resources, which – many of them – are crucial components in driving new green technology. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e804	It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e809	It could have been nice to go on track about who has used the words ‘green change’ or ‘green enterprise policy’. I'm going to leave it and rather dedicate myself to the Nations today, because there are probably a few times the Minister of Industry's mission portfolio is as well mentioned in the Nations as it is today. Click to close the curve The Minister of Economic Affairs was concerned about the tools. It is bleak reading that the power of the governments of state corporations – and in particular the executive boards, which are essential to the exercise – is as concentrated in Oslo as that report actually shows. When I read the Nation, I don't get the impression that this is something the Minister of Industry seems to be unfortunate. On the contrary, I read the notice so that he actually verifies it. Click to close the curve My question is: will the Minister of Industry ensure that executive positions are spread more widely across the country, or at least that wise heads out there can also be assessed in the processes to be initiated? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e818	The answer to the last question, which was very well formulated, is yes. There's been more look-ups, and there might be more look-ups in the nations. There I say repeatedly what is both government policy and my attitude, that it is a loss for the state if you cannot find the good leadership and board talents across the country. Click to close the curve We're doing a lot for this. Among other things, we provide requirements for consultancy companies to have good geographical representation on the lists we have. But it is absolutely right that, as far as directors are concerned, there are more people from Oslo today. There might be some random results. As far as board members are concerned, if you look from 2014 to today – in 2014 they were largely nominated by the red-green – it's the exact same thing. This, I think, is a continuous challenge that all governments have to address. Click to close the curve In concrete terms, what is said in today's Nation: My point is that we cannot – and the Stortinget did not want it through the ownership message – create a kind of quota for each state. We're going to do this because it's good for the companies, and because it's good for the state that owns. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e827	I am pleased with the answer and that the Minister of Industry will address the issue. I also agree with the opinion – no matter who controls the country. But right now you can get the impression that you need to know someone who knows someone, to sit in a leadership position. And it's not lucky either for the company's reputation and reputation. That is why I ask very concretely, since the Minister for Economic Affairs has not yet made concrete proposals as to what he sees can be done, and I challenge him to: Can the Minister for Economic Affairs describe some measures that will ensure that those who are to propose candidates are more likely to propose candidates from across the country, perhaps what the Council of State will do if it does not come up as an alternative? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e832	I'd like to say a little bit about it, but first you have to remember what's the back carpet here. It's not like I or the government on their own have made the rules that we're dealing with. It's the Stortinge that made them. And the Storting has said that diversity is important. It applies to both gender and geography, and it can also apply to other things. So it is not a quota to be allocated, nor has the Stortinge wanted it. It would have been a terrible bad idea. Click to close the curve But quite specifically to what we are doing: when we are to appoint new members of the board – there is, of course, a difference between whether there is an election committee or whether the board is directly appointed by the state as owner – there are always visible representatives and board members from all over the country. We also demand that the consultants we use have candidates from all over the country. And then there's an assessment based on each company and the situation in each company, and the competence of course, which candidates are used. But I am concerned that having a good understanding of the whole of Norway is important to a lot of companies where the state has a holding. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e839	In the world, there are thousands of newspapers, so it's purely random that both of them are now going to be based on the newspaper Nation, and actually in the same statement. I think someone has to go to get a better geographical spread. Click to close the curve The Council of State lists the consultancy agencies that are used to collect candidates. It might have been interesting if the government could say something about the address of these consulting agencies that the ministry uses. Click to close the curve But my question is: will the ownership message provide concrete measures to improve the geographical distribution of both directors, board members and council members and the government's downside selections? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e848	The answer to the specific question is quite brief: you will have to wait to look at the ownership message. But I'm concerned that we're going to have diversity in the companies, and that it's a value for the companies and for the government's returns. Click to close the curve In the case of the other two things the representative involved, or at least one other thing, it is that we demand that the consulting companies should have a presence not just in Oslo. It's a very clear requirement, simply because it doesn't seem like you're just sitting in Oslo and getting good tips from all over the country – although of course it's possible; both the Center Party and the Right have e.g. headquarters in the capital Oslo. But you have to have a presence elsewhere in the country. Click to close the curve So it's worth just nuanceing a little bit. I mentioned that when you look at board members, it is – I think – 1 pst. increase in the number of board members from Eastern Europe compared to the last year of the red-green government. Neither is it given that because you're in Oslo, you're born and raised here and you've lived here forever. Let me just take a random example: Eivind Reiten, who should be known for the Center Party, is from More and Romesdal – quite well used, but has today's residence address Oslo. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e858	I thank you for your answer and want to follow up on another theme for which there has been a great deal of commitment at Stortinget, simply space travel – then at least there is a geographic spread when you stay in space. In recent years, in many ways, the Storting has cleared up and corrected errors proposed by the government and the former Minister of Industry when it comes to space travel. Now, when a space strategy comes up, it's an expressed wish from the opposition that we should join in and discuss it in the form of a big message, so that we can get a broad deal in the Stortinget linking Norway's future space policy. There the government party and the council say no, and my question is, why doesn't one want this? Would it not have been a strength for Norwegian space travel and Norwegian space policy if one had a good discussion in Stortinget and a broad treatment of a big message? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e863	It will be an advantage if you have a broad discussion and space policy is anchored in the Storting, and there will also be an advantage if you have a broad consensus so that the long lines can emerge. We have to do that, and we also say in the budget proposal that we want to anchor the important features and measures of the space strategy, in the Stortinget. Click to close the curve What might make this a little bit more complicated is that what the Storting originally asked for was a strategy, and it's quite unusual to put forward a strategy like this for the Storting. But I must honestly admit that I think this is a little more technical discussion, because it means that it is fully possible, and the idea is also – as we write in the budget proposal – that we want to anchor what is the important policy and the political road choices, in the Storting. So it remains to be seen what kind of government will do it. But it is an advantage for Norwegian space policy that there is at least a high degree of predictability. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e870	I noticed that the council claimed that we were in a green shift. I guess he thought we were in a green shift in Norway today. But at the same time, oil money has increased dramatically under this government, and oil dependence has increased dramatically. The deficit for the mainland industry has increased considerably under this government. With that as a back carpet, how can he claim that it's a green shift? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e881	Firstly, if we look at the description of the representative of Knag Fylkesnes in relation to the use of oil money, then he believes that the rule of action will govern the nominal amount to be used in the budget every year. It's not like that. The rule of action is a rule to phase oil money into the Norwegian economy at a certain rate in a sound manner – in the long term. That means we're supposed to spend more oil money. Everyone agrees. The rule of action is designed for us to spend more oil money, but do it at a responsible pace. Click to close the curve Then, of course, there is a fundamental distinction between the Socialist Left Party and this government. The Socialist Left does not see that many of the green solutions, the green technology, originate in Norway's oil and gas industries. Not only is Norway's oil and gas industry probably one of the better and greener in the world, but much of the technology, the workplaces, the know-how that we have there is the solution for us to contribute to a green technology shift globally. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e888	The right-wing parties wish to decide today that the State should be able to sell itself into Telenor. What loss does the Minister of Industry think it will be for the Norwegian industry if we lose control of Telenor in Norway? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e893	As the representative knows for sure – I understand that in one minute you don't have time to go through all your knowledge about it – this is a routine matter that is decided every year. The last time the ownership message was processed, the Workers' Party had, rightly with a reservation that it would be in connection with a type of merger, also an opening so that the State could decrease its ownership of Telenor. What is happening today is that we are going to keep Telenor because we are going to have our head office in Norway and because it is an important technology company. The reasoning of the majority in the Grand Duchy has been that it can also be done with a so-called blocking minority, i.e. you can block changes in the statutes. Click to close the curve With regard to the question of what we will lose if we sell ourselves in Telenor, it is not possible to answer this on the standing ground, but this is a mandate that the government has had since at least 2014, which is renewed every year. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e900	Replicate cord shift complete. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e905	There is a clear link between production, work, social organisation and well-being. The Norwegian model of working life, in the view of the Workers' Party, is our foremost industrial policy competitive advantage. It's created a business that's very adaptable. Click to close the curve With the gradual phasing out of oil production, we are facing a great need for conversion. Lower oil and gas production weakens one of our main drivers in industrial development, which has a uniquely high productivity and will be very demanding to replace. One of the main tasks of the Workers' Party is therefore to develop an industrial policy for increased value creation and more profitable jobs throughout the country, so that we can continue to finance well-being. Click to close the curve Digitalisation means that we represent a great opportunity to create new jobs and secure existing ones. Norway has a good starting point. We have a well-organized and highly skilled working life and a population that quickly uses new technology. Click to close the curve The working party had high expectations for Digital21 – how to facilitate business to develop and implement new technologies and knowledge. The government-appointed sample has proposed more than 60 concrete actions – ranging from competence, framework conditions and increased focus on security to make our data resources more accessible. They particularly highlight the central role that governments have in ensuring that we succeed. But from the government it has become quite quiet or just words. Click to close the curve We see other countries taking active action. When the Business Committee was on a committee mission in Sweden, the government was clear that just digitisation was one of three main fields of action. They were particularly concerned about how small and medium-sized enterprises could change by using digitisation. Norway has an even higher share of small and medium-sized enterprises, and such a targeted policy should also have developed in close cooperation with the parties. Click to close the curve The NHO competence survey shows that six out of ten enterprises lack employees with the right skills. This is probably the case with the highest degree of digital competence. Experience of mastering is essential for productivity and to prevent exclusion. Click to close the curve In none of these areas, we see that the government is delivering. The government boasts that they're following up on Digital21, but they've only spent 10 million dollars. kr in the budget and say nothing about how to use this money. Click to close the curve The Labour Party believes that we need a clear enterprise policy with concrete measures in which businesses, academia and authorities are moving in the same direction. We need to put together to be the leader in a competition how many countries are very large. Click to close the curve The Workers' Party has proposed increased investment in top industrial centres, the establishment of research centres for industrial digitisation, artificial intelligence, autonomous systems and the organisation of small and medium-sized enterprises, among others. by strengthening DigitalNorway. We have also proposed a reform of competence for continuing training. Click to close the curve Another area that has been raised by the Labour Party is a more offensive use of public purchasing power to enhance innovation. Government purchases goods and services for approx. 500 B.C.E. kr per year. Strangely enough, the government has chosen not to extend the scheme of innovation contracts despite high demand and proving successful. For the Workers' Party, these are low hanging fruits. In addition to innovation and more jobs, it will strengthen the public's ability to make use of innovative procurement and to develop better services for the population. The working party will further strengthen the scheme by establishing a risk-relief scheme. It has been called for for many years and is one of the measures proposed just in Digital21. Click to close the curve The financial industry is one of the industries that has met the challenges and opportunities of digitisation early. We are therefore pleased that the government has finally decided, after various requests from Stortinget, to establish a regulatory sandbox during 2019. It will be a good tool to trigger value creation and employment potential as a result of new business ideas at the intersection of technology, finance and consumer trends. Click to close the curve We now hope that the government has learned from what they did when they put down the NOU Committee to assess the future taxation of the aquaculture industry, that they now understand that when changes and conversions take place so quickly, we also need representatives from business operators who are in the middle of it – in the transition – both from those who are established and from start-ups. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e933	The budget for 2019 presented by the government is a responsible proposal with good profiling adapted to the overall framework we have in our economy. The budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party provides for additional pointers, in particular strengthening of veterinary coverage. Click to close the curve For me, Norwegian agriculture is a living community, people at work, value creation – all over the country. Agriculture is food diversity, experiences, travel and forestry. And in the center is our more than 5 million inhabitants – consumers. Click to close the curve I'm proud of what the agricultural industry is doing. There's a lot of creativity out there. Not least, it thrives in local feeding in many places. We are constantly getting local, exciting and tasty products for which Ola and Kari get more and more the sense. This is a short-range, top-quality food. Click to close the curve But we have had a tough summer, with long-lasting droughts and failing crops in large parts of Europe and in several parts of Norway. There has been a high risk of extensive feed shortages. This has been demanding. Click to close the curve At the same time, we've seen the industry take care of itself. They've set up for each other. First of all, from the state, we have negotiated a supplement to the 300 million agricultural agreement. kr paid in the autumn. Secondly, management has prioritised large resources to pay crop damage compensation quickly and efficiently. The payments of claims now appear to be significantly higher than we have predicted in the past. As of December 7, 1.3 billion had been paid. kr in 2018. The payments made in 2018 will therefore be significantly higher than those proposed in the new ageing process, which is based on what was then the current forecast. Click to close the curve The forecasts now indicate that 200-400 million. kr of the claims will be paid in 2019. This will come back to us in the context of the review of the revised budget 2019. This shows that we have a good order for the farmers when they experience large income losses as a result of crop damage. Click to close the curve The situation shows – with great clarity – that agriculture is vulnerable, and we must be prepared for such situations to reoccur. Adapting production to a changing climate is a major challenge for agriculture. In agriculture, climate and environmental efforts were strengthened, including: with increased resources for research, development and the building of competences. In this context, good agronomy, good animal welfare and high skills of the farmer are very important. Click to close the curve The government has also invited agricultural organisations to dialogue to conclude a mutual agreement on climate reduction. We have our next negotiating meeting on 20 December. Click to close the curve There is a lot that goes well for Norwegian agriculture: our animals are healthy. The use of antibiotics in animal husbandry is low. A lot of exciting things are happening in the field of technological development, among other things. within the precision farming industry. We're betting on forest research to increase value creation with the highest possible climate gain. The government will remove bottlenecks in the road network. It improves the efficiency of timber transport. Click to close the curve Optimism prevails in Norwegian forest and wood industries. The summit is high. Some exciting industrial initiatives have been implemented, and several are being planned. Several profitable industrial enterprises here at home processing Norwegian forest raw materials are important for employment and greater contribution to forest value creation. Click to close the curve Silva Green Fuel, owned by Statkraft and Södra, builds a pilot plant for advanced second-generation biofuels based on forest raw materials from Tofte in Hurum, which is scheduled to be completed during 2019. Click to close the curve Foods of Norway have come a long way in making feed ingredients for livestock and fish, among others. wood. Large-scale testing has been carried out with good results in 2018. Click to close the curve In the field of harvested game, we propose to increase efforts to recruit for hunting and stimulate children and young people to use the land resources. The government still has a high pressure to fight pancreatic disease. We need to keep fresh deer and tamrein in Norway The government follows the decision to transfer 30 annual works from the Agricultural Directorate's unit in Oslo to a new unit in Steinkjer. Click to close the curve I look at the budgetary position that the opposition is proposing the stockpiling of cereals. The government has assessed the emergency storage of food grain several times in the period 2013-2017 at the request of Stortinget and concluded that this is not a targeted and cost-effective measure to strengthen Norwegian food security. The amounts that the opposition has included in its proposals will not reach far. Click to close the curve Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that there is a broad dissension about soil protection. We are close to achieving the target of annual re-disposal of cultivated land of less than 4000 deches. This is the basis for future food production. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e969	It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e975	In the light of the very specific case of redeployment reductions, I would like to ask a general question to the Minister for Agriculture, which is: How does he perceive the legal basis for reducing the reindeer figure — how does it work? When he considers this in retrospect: Is the Minister for Agriculture – with a general consideration – satisfied with the basis for reducing redundancies, as stated in the law? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e980	I think it's important that we make sure that we have a good industry that can drive reindeer in the future, and that's what this is all about. This is not about one case, it is about 231 pages that have been decided to reduce their reindeer number, and it is 230 that have followed up. This is about ensuring that we have enough pastures in the future, that we have good animal welfare to ensure that we can drive clean in the future. So everyone else has accepted that you've gone down on the reindeer, just to make sure you can have a good nutrition in the future that can drive clean. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e985	I thank you for the answer, although I do not see it as a general consideration of how the law works. We agree on the objective – we must have sustainability in the reindeer industry, if not completely hopeless. But there might be something about the basis for reducing the reindeer that's good to consider afterwards. But I accept that the Minister of Agriculture does not respond that way. Click to close the curve Then I ask: in the specific, concrete case, why is it so important now to implement the decision of the Directorate of Agriculture on forced slaughter before the case has received its opinion from the Committee on Human Rights in Geneva? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e992	I believe that it is important to follow the principles of power distribution that we have. This is a Supreme Court judgment that has also taken into account and assessed what has now been appealed against before the Human Rights Committee. I believe that the highest court in Norway must be followed up, and that is the reason for this. And as I say, if you assume that the average for a page is approximately. 6.1 reindeer, that means it's about. 1,400 reindeer who have helped reduce the number of reindeer – just to put in place sustainable and sufficient grazing areas in the future. The consequence of the opinion of Aasland’s representative is that the Supreme Court should be set aside until the opinion of the Committee on Human Rights has been delivered. This is not a court; it is a committee which is required to deliver an opinion. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e997	The Minister of Agriculture was in the dry summer of his speech. There is now a great need to step up efforts to tackle potential emerging diseases, and not least the increased risk of infection we have received. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes additional funds to the Food Authority this year to do that job. It's responsible. Skipping the task is irresponsible. The size is clear that we need to get to work to strengthen preparedness. It's responsible. Postponing this and not bringing money is irresponsible. Click to close the curve Now we have had a big debate on preparedness in Stortinget. The government has got a lot of criticism to be late for the follow-up. I wonder: Is it not worrying that we should now also have a delay in preparing for the food? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1004	I think we have good arrangements. We've got a food agency that's offensive, and it's on. We have approx. 20 monitoring programmes already today, just to ensure food safety. We have a good dialogue with the Food Authority as to whether we need to do something else. But the Food Authority believes that what the representative now wants does not have to be implemented. I am also not sure that this will be the right measure to spend a lot of money on right now, because you already have good arrangements. A sent guide has also been created, and there is good information for those who may have imported or will import feed, on how to behave and in a good way ensure security, on which the representative is concerned. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1009	I must say I was a little surprised when I heard the Council of State mention of the stockpiling of cereals. Only the evaluations and arrangements made by the government were shown. It was said that the opposition party had invested too little money. You will be asked how much to do during 2019. Click to close the curve But what also surprises me is that the Council of State does not say anything about what he is required by the Storting to do. The size has made a significant and clearly consensual decision that the Council of State should come back with a separate case concerning the establishment of food grain preparedness storage during 2019. Then my question is, Is the Council of State going to follow up that decision? And then we'll get one thing that says something about how this can be done, and how we can get started? Or is it just going to come up with another statement where one dismisses this as the Storting has actually made a consensual decision? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1016	The council has planned to return to Stortinget, which Stortinget has asked for. But I think it's a little special that you put forward a proposal of 20 million. NOK 35 million. kr from the other batch, and then you know that if you want to have cereal stocks for three months, it costs about. 150 million. NOK just to purchase. Three months! In addition, annual operating costs must be provided, which is a place between 23 and 40 million. kr – at the top of 40 mill. kr. In addition, you have to build where to store the grain, which will also cost a lot of money. Click to close the curve But this is what the State Council will come back to Stortinget with, as the Stortinget has asked for. But I think it's a little special, and you should answer how you've been going to put in place a spare stock in 2019 with the means that are there. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1023	At least it's good that in the things that are now coming from the government, we're told that there are hundreds of millions here to get started quickly, so that's good. Click to close the curve There's someone who's been hurting for the time being, there's someone who's worried about the future, there's hundreds of families, and it's those of the country's farmers who run with fur and fur production. So one should be allowed to produce that fur anywhere in the world, just not in Norway. One can sell in Norway, and one can sell it abroad, but it must not be produced in Norway, with the world's best animal welfare for fur animals. The results of the Food Authority are also good. Click to close the curve Many of those who are under the government's policy say that it is bad that the Council of State does not take responsibility for the decision, that it only owes it to the government negotiations. So my question to the Council of State is: Will one in the Stortinget now take responsibility for the decision to shut down Norwegian fur nutrition? And how can the decision be defended? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1032	I have a great deal of understanding and sympathy with those who are now struggling and who think this is difficult. You have to, because this is tough too many. That is why we have now made sure to consult a proposal for a compensation scheme on which we have asked for input. The matter will then be referred to the Stortinget, who may decide whether or not to shut down the industry. Click to close the curve This is part of the government negotiations between the three government parties that have been agreed upon and that I as the Council of State must follow up. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1039	It is wrong that this proposal is waiting for the execution of a Supreme Court judgment. This is to wait for the implementation of a management decision – and until after the Human Rights Committee has given its opinion on the matter, which in Norwegian law has just the role of clarifying whether we are inside or outside human rights. Click to close the curve There's a lot of tension around this in all legal circles – whether we've had a system of coercive slaughter that's inside, or not. Usually, in the legal system, one of the last assessments is expected, but one has not been selected. There's a hurry here. One even requires that one perform the forced slaughter in the middle of winter, which is completely insane, and without compensation to the exorcised actors. Click to close the curve Has the Council of State been in contact with the Directorate of Agriculture on this matter and has it given a recommendation on how to proceed? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1049	This is a case that has been throughout the Norwegian legal system, at all levels, and that has ended up in the Supreme Court. It is the Supreme Court which has also taken a judgment, which is clear and clear, and in which it has also assessed the aspects raised by the representative of Knag Fylkesnes. Click to close the curve Then I would like to clarify, because the level of precision of the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, is not quite correct: he claims that there is a decision to coerce. That's not what's done. It is important to clarify that the Directorate of Agriculture has not taken a decision on coercive measures at that time, but they have given Sara a deadline until the end of December to even reduce the reindeer in line with the Supreme Court judgment. Click to close the curve This is about us wanting and being dedicated to ensuring that we will have a reindeer in the future, and that there are good pastures for the reindeer that are there. That is why a decision has been made to bring you down. 230 pages, almost 1,400 reindeer, have agreed on this. There is one person who does not want to follow it up, and it could have great consequences if it is not followed up. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1058	The queue change has now been completed. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1063	That should not really be necessary, but today I feel to start with one of the most famous slogans of the socialists in Norway: ‘Do your duty, demand your right.’ This was rhetoric from the left long before the welfare state as it does today, and it has also been a long time since the left-hand side has used the slogan – understandable enough. When we look to the left in the political landscape today, we see mainly parties who want to exploit the goods, but who show little understanding or sacrifice little thought about how the goods and the value are made. Click to close the curve It should be unnecessary, but it is in place – perhaps more than in many decades – to remember that we have to create first, then we can share. The state's money isn't just there. Click to close the curve Today it sounds more like the tune: ‘Required your right, demand your right.’ For a west fold, it reminds me of Odd Børetzen’s song about the moons – ‘shall have, shall have’. This should be solved with more taxes on the jobs of ordinary people. Small and medium-sized enterprises must be squeezed harder. Instead of safe framework conditions, job uncertainties are created – and this is bad. Click to close the curve Norway is going to laugh financially, right now, and that's good. Our policies work. At the same time, more and more people have a job to do. More and more people are being qualified to do their job, because – and this also our distinguished competitors on the left-hand side of the political line – the best way to combat differences and poverty is to make sure that people have a job to go to. Norway is one of the world’s least diverse countries, but there is no need for sleep cushions. The very greatest difference is between those who have to go up and off the farm because they have a job to go to, and those who have no reason to put on the alarm clock when they go to bed. Click to close the curve It also goes down in District Norway. Unemployment is record low, business is flourishing, and roads are being built that link town and town together, as never before. Yes, throughout Norway, the unemployment rate is falling. Growth is rising, and more jobs are being created. We must continue to do this – create more, not more taxes. Click to close the curve Where the Right wants business to create more profitable jobs, the Workers' Party will have more jobs that live on the State budget. It is also being tried today to create a picture that our economic policy does not work to get more people to work. To those of you who still claim it, I would simply say, Can't you just look around? Companies invest more. More and more people are coming to work all over the country. Unemployment is the lowest in ten years, especially in the districts. Employment rates are increasing, and fewer are out of work. It's self-inspiring. Since the election campaign, the employment rate has increased steadily, despite increased immigration and an ageing population. Nevertheless, the Labour Party continues to talk in its alternative state budget about an increasing number of people outside the labour market. It's at best against better knowledge. It's also in stark contrast to what Nav himself writes: ‘The perception that a growing proportion of the Nordics are passively receiving Nav benefits is not correct.’ The representative Gahr Støre said in the election campaign that he feared a lost generation, and that we are about to get a level of unemployment like other countries in Europe. This he said while all the arrows pointed in the right direction. And after he said that, almost twice as many jobs were created as the Workers' Party promised if they won the election. Click to close the curve Everyone has to contribute to the maintenance of the welfare level we know today, because it is people's work that is the basis for well-being. Anyone who can work should work and must work, and no one should go out to date. Right wants to take care of Norway as the world’s best country to live in. You're the new oil -- maybe not exactly you and me, but everyone who goes to a value-creating job is at least the new oil -- because it's the value of our future work that's going to finance our welfare in the years to come. It's not a single industry, a single innovation or a fix idea, but the sum of our joint work that will carry the welfare community of the future. Click to close the curve Well-being Norway, that is, a large public sector, requires high value creation in the private sector. The most important thing for Norway in the future will therefore be to create even more jobs in the private sector. The impact of not reforming, modernising, streamlining and prioritising is a weakened welfare society. If we continue to ignore these challenges, as the left-hand side does, we have to pay far more in taxes or cut dramatically in welfare. Right doesn't want any of the two things. Instead, we want to continue to facilitate a sustainable welfare society. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1087	Norway is a port, and much of our value creation takes place using the sea, our long coastline and marine resources. The marine industries generate values for almost 500 billion. kr every year and is very important for the Norwegian economy. It represents a quarter of the total Norwegian value added, and the government's ambition to make Norway a leading port is well monitored in the budget. Click to close the curve Norway is the world’s second largest maritime food exporter, fishery and aquaculture industries are among Norway’s main future industries and have the potential to create more profitable jobs throughout the country. Click to close the curve This year’s government budget strongly supports the high ambitions of the government for Norwegian marine industries, and the importance of more marine and coastal value creation – a budget to ensure continued growth in the Norwegian economy, where migration, increased competitiveness and more jobs are at the centre. Click to close the curve Marine litter is an increasing problem that threatens this positive development. About 8 million tons of plastic ends up in the sea every year. That plastic never disappears and is very damaging to the life of the sea. If we keep going as today, there could be more plastic than fish in the ocean in 2050. Marine nesting is a global challenge that requires global solutions. About 85 pst. comes from land of the plastic that ends up in the sea. The reason is that there are almost no waste management systems in developing countries. That is why I am pleased that the Progress Party in the government is now set at 400 million. in the aid programme for maritime catchment. Click to close the curve One of the UN's sustainability goals is the conservation and use of marine resources in a way that promotes sustainable development. With the government's sea bet, we will contribute to the realisation of marine value creation potential through sustainable growth. This budget is an important step towards achieving the UN's objectives. Click to close the curve The high ambitions of the marine industry thus demand that knowledge on marine health be strengthened and made more effective. It is therefore an important priority to allocate 30 million. kr to strengthen knowledge of marine health. The goal is to get knowledge faster, so that we can facilitate good management, profitability, growth in marine industries and develop new marine industries. Click to close the curve While investing in new industries, it is important to take care of traditional marine industries. I am thinking in particular of Norwegian shipping and not least Norwegian seafarers – to give them predictability and good framework conditions, so that we will also have Norwegian seafarers in the future. Click to close the curve Ever since the party was formed, we've been on the team with those who work at sea. The party of progress has always been, is and will always be the party of the seafarers. Click to close the curve Unlike the red-green ones, the subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers has been significantly strengthened. In addition, the government has statutoryized the grant scheme and extended it to specialised deep sea activities. In sum, I believe that our commitment to Norwegian seafarers is not only good and promising words, but also action and processes in the future. Click to close the curve We've put behind us a spring with a strong political change of words about the proposal for the amendment of the voyage area regulation for foreign ferries, and a spring that has been unwieldy for the parties involved. Therefore, it is gratifying that in the budget agreement there is a stop in changing the operating area regulations for foreign ferries, and I will praise the Christian People's Party, and in particular the representative Steinar Reiten, who brought the matter into the budget negotiations and made us a good solution to the matter. The outcome is entirely in line with the lead position of the Progress Party. Click to close the curve On our watch, we have done a great deal to improve the framework conditions and predictability of the seafarers, and the assumptions have therefore changed since the Airworthiness Committee assessed the matter. With today's framework conditions, there are no savings for Color Line in moving the two ships between Oslo and Kiel, from NOR to NIS. It pays to be a Norwegian shipping company in a Norwegian ship register with Norwegian seafarers. That it is so is a wild policy on the part of the Progress Party. Click to close the curve As stated, the party of progress has always been, is and will always be the party of the seafarers. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1115	The working party has a long and proud history of sea and fishing – from Jens Steffensen, who was in the brink of the Raw Fish Act, Jens Evensen, who made Norway bigger, and all the way up to Jan Henry T. Olsen, who didn't have one fish to give to the EU, Helga Pedersen, who stopped black fishing, and Jonas Gahr Støre, who secured the Barents Sea partline agreement. Click to close the curve We in the Workers' Party have continued to believe that the sea can provide more jobs along the coast. That is why the Labour Party has a good budget for the coast and the sea, with a total of 680 million. kr more to the coast than the government parties and Christian People's Party have. Our budget would give a boost to the coast, create more jobs and strengthen the settlement along the coast. In fact, we need to develop the whole coast, have a policy for less differences and more community, we need an active industrial policy for the coast as well. It's not a policy that characterizes this government. Click to close the curve Year after year, Erna Solberg's fisheries ministers have proposed small cuts in what would have been of great importance to the coast, not least in my own part of the country, North Norway. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we can land fish along the coast, through the so-called leadership grant. Until now, the Christian People's Party has helped to correct the petty government cuts, but I have my doubts as to whether the government will be able to prioritize it in the years to come, when they are about to enter the government. Click to close the curve The Labour Party also has a strong industrial effort, which has been included in our budget. We're prioritizing 48 million. kr for industrial measures, management grants and schemes to increase the processing of fish along the coast. On the news this week, we saw that over half of the fish dinners purchased by a small children's family in Bodø do not contain Norwegian fish, and as much as every third product is made outside Norway. Fish sticks purchased in North Norway are made by Alaska pollock – not by sails from our seas. It is a great paradox, and I would say it is also a defeat. Consumers do not want it, and I assume that as fishermen we do not want it. The Minister for Fisheries says that he does not want to – yes, then the latter has to take action. Click to close the curve For the Workers' Party, it is important to obtain more processing of Norwegian fish in Norway on land. Then more investment is needed in development and innovation and technology for industry's profitability, and the state needs to be involved. This is also the reason why the Workers' Party is making its own contribution to the fishing industry through its own industrial strategy. Click to close the curve I have also registered that Harald T. Nesvik believes that we do not need this. But if there's one thing in the last few days that's shown, it's that we actually need that. One of the most important things to ensure more processing is completely transparent access to raw materials. If we don't have fish to cut into, there's no jobs or industry either. Then we need stable framework conditions. We must have coastal-land agreements that ensure that the fish come to the berth and enter the factory, year round. Click to close the curve I will not be able to mention the shocking revelations that have recently emerged about working conditions on boats along our coast, with social dumping, human robbery and conditions that we cannot be familiar with. The Minister of Fisheries has chosen not to answer my written question about the importance this has for the reputation of the Norwegian fishing industry, and sent it on to the Minister of Industry. I think that's special, because I think this is deeply worrying, and that's the relationship we can't be familiar with at all. So here it must be taken into account, and I ask the Minister for Fisheries to get on the road. Click to close the curve In recent years, there has been considerable uncertainty about the fisheries policy of the Solberg Government. So 1 May must be used to establish that the fish belongs to us together. There are many unresolved problems, and there are not many of the problems that are near any solution. There is too little policy provided by the Minister. Click to close the curve How are we to ensure that the young people too in the future choose a future in the fishing industry? How do we manage that the prices of boats and quotas have become so high, and how do we ensure that 'open group' also has room for young people on their way into the industry? Norwegian fisheries policy needs more predictability. The industry needs a government that takes hold of the reality that is experienced out there, that sees everyone coming, small and big, and that doesn't make people use slogans. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1136	The government provides a draft budget that will increase employment and competitiveness of Norwegian industry. Having a job to do is important for individuals and for society. According to SSB figures, over 50,000 jobs have been created in the last year, and unemployment is the lowest in 30 years. In addition, it is gratifying that the level of employment is also increasing. Click to close the curve Workplaces are created where people are willing to invest, where there is good competence, good ideas, competitive taxes and taxes, targeted capital and targeted grant schemes and effective and unbureaucratic legislation. All of this focuses on the government. Click to close the curve In addition, business depends on good infrastructure and a training system that provides the right skills in a timely manner. This government has a historical commitment to infrastructure, research and education, which is greatly appreciated by industry. Click to close the curve Several jobs in the private sector are the basis for the income of our welfare society. Therefore, it is so important to ensure competitiveness for industry. We have reduced company taxes, reduced property taxes and phased out machine taxes. The feedback from business is good. Among other things, the NHO writes: in its input to the Committee: ‘NHO believes this is a good budget for job creation’. Furthermore, ‘The proposed reductions in corporate taxes and property taxes will contribute to increased investment and more jobs’. The Workers' Party will reverse corporate tax cuts and increase property taxes. Click to close the curve Over the past five years, a number of key messages and strategies have been provided in areas where Norway has given natural advantage and strong technology and competence environments. Agricultural reporting, industrial reporting, forest reporting, tourism reporting, maritime strategy, bioeconomy strategy, export strategy, Digital21 – just to name a few. We also have ongoing work to look at how a better person can allocate capital to existing and new businesses. Click to close the curve Nevertheless, the opposition calls for a more active industrial policy and even brings increased public expenditure and large tax cuts into its budgets in response to the challenges we face. This is a recipe for poorer conditions for private business and less money for public welfare services. Click to close the curve This government wants a small and large-scale agriculture throughout the country. We have maintained a differentiated usage structure and given farmers greater freedom to control their own property and make better use of their resources. The government's policy is to strengthen the channelling policy with extensive grazing and animal husbandry on small and medium-sized uses in District Norway. The policy has resulted in increased food production and good income development for Norwegian farmers in the last three years. Because of overproduction in several areas, which is the industry’s own responsibility, revenue goes down. This must be the focus of the forthcoming negotiations with agriculture. Click to close the curve NIBIO, in its 2017 operational reviews, shows that the main causes of the decline in income are price reductions due to overproduction of pigs, sheep and lambs, cost increases and a high rainfall caused poor grass crops in the south and west of 2017. Click to close the curve The government's draft budget for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food represents an increase of 4.9 pst. compared to the adopted budget for 2018. The increase is mainly linked to the conclusion of the agricultural agreement negotiated with the agreement of both trade unions, the relocation of jobs from Oslo to Steinkjer, research into forest climate contributions and funds from the Ministry of Transport to remove bottlenecks in the county road network, which is very important for efficient transport of timber. Click to close the curve For a long time, forest and wood industries have had better infrastructure as one of their main objectives. The government has granted 760 million in the period 2014-2018. SEK for forestry infrastructure, broken down by 525 million. SEK for forest roads and 235 million. kr for timber brands, which the industry is very satisfied with. Click to close the curve The Ministry of Agriculture and Food shall review the stockpiling of food grain in 2019, in addition to the investigations carried out between 2013 and 2017. The Labour Party has proposed 35 million in its draft budget. kr for climate adaptation and stockpiles for food grain, cereal seed and grass seed. The Central Party has proposed 20 million. kr for the storage of cereals. Emergency stock for food grain – enough to three months of consumption – will cost 150 million. NOK and the operating costs will be between 23 and 44 million. kr. The amounts set aside here do not correspond in any way to the needs. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1161	Norway is a country with extreme opportunities. In order to continue to exploit this potential, we need to continue to invest in sustainable fishing and the harvesting of marine resources. Good scientific advice and administrative principles lay the foundation for this. Click to close the curve The government will therefore give priority to ocean-based research. The focus of the Norwegian Research Council on marine technology and innovation is strengthened in the budget. The marine research institute, the Norwegian Research Council and the Swedish Veterinary Institute's knowledge base on the effects of marine-related nutrient growth are strengthened in a joint effort to improve marine health of 30 million. kr. In addition, a research pillar for Antarctica is being implemented in these days in order to increase knowledge of, inter alia: Krill occurrences. Click to close the curve The Government continues to work on the co-location of the Marine Research Institute and the Fisheries Directorate. This could help to ensure a sound basis for sound Norwegian knowledge-based fisheries and aquaculture management. Click to close the curve Another important prerequisite for the long-term benefit of marine populations is to maintain good control of the exercise of fisheries. The government will continue the fight against UUU fishing, develop a more flexible quota and permit system and ensure that Norway has international impact in forums and negotiations on marine resource and environmental management. Click to close the curve Nor does it escape brexit and how the United Kingdom's exit from the EU will affect fisheries management. The government has established good dialogue with both the EU and the United Kingdom and will work for a new agreement to ensure sustainable harvesting and management of the North Sea common populations. This is very important, all the time when most of the populations that Norway and Norwegian fishermen fish on are populations that we share with other countries. That's why we're totally dependent on good agreements related to this resource use. Click to close the curve The government will facilitate sustainable and profitable aquaculture by providing a good framework for development and growth. Both profitability, employment and local community ring-fences are increasing. Click to close the curve As with all other food production, there are clearly challenges related to the environmental aspect of aquaculture. The government facilitates development within a sustainable framework, with the good help of the industry itself. The industry is responsible for an uplifting technological development and the potential of many of the development projects is incredibly exciting. Click to close the curve I am pleased that the government can also continue the payment of subsidies to municipalities and county councils that facilitate aquaculture. The marine funds are there just to have a good and proper reward for the municipalities that facilitate aquaculture in their neighbourhoods. Click to close the curve Finally, I would like to provide a few answers to representatives who have made questions and claims. First, to the representative Cecilie Myrseth. The representative responded that the undersigned has sent questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs related to what is happening on board a given vessel in the Barents Sea. First of all, I just want to say one thing. The government is responsible for a common policy. It's the government that makes the decisions. But precisely in this case, the question was sent to the Council of State that is responsible for the topic. Perhaps it surprises the representative Myrseth that the Council of State responsible for the topic will also respond to the representative, but I thought the representative would be happy to receive answers from the Council of State that had to do with the portfolio, which could take action and follow up these things. But the representative should be aware of one thing: we work along many axes in that matter. I myself have worked against fishing crime and how we treat both seafarers and others on board boats as a result of this in many areas. This is an important field where we're going to focus heavily on, because it's totally unacceptable, what's been revealed. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1182	It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1187	To take that Council of State concluded from the pulpit: I hear what is said. But the question that was sent to the Minister for Fisheries was what he thought about the reputation of the fishing industry, and I would like to think that this is, to a very great extent, a matter which also concerns the Minister for Fisheries. So the question is, what does the Minister for Fisheries actually want to do to follow up the serious situation that we are now seeing on board boats along our coast? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1192	I work every day with the reputation of the fishing industry. I don't accept fish fraud, I don't accept that you don't operate sustainably, and I don't accept the conditions that are revealed, simply because this is important. It has to do with the propriety of those who work in the industry. Click to close the curve The background for its transmission to the Minister of Industry is that it has been found to be a foreign ship. It has to do with the working conditions on board the boat, while the Minister for Fisheries has to do with the outside: what to do with management, what to do with fisheries, what to do with quotas – not what to do with working conditions on board the boat. Click to close the curve But I fully agree with what the Minister of Industry has said: we are going to work with these things, both nationally and internationally. For the conditions that have been revealed, completely unacceptable. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1201	I also have another question, and it's about processing. As I mentioned in my post, over the past week we have seen a number of reports dealing with Norwegian products of fish that have too little Norwegian fish in them. I have registered that the Minister of Fisheries has said that we must accept this, and I have also registered that you do not want to be part of a strategy for the white fish. So then my question is, what are the measures taken by the Minister for Fisheries to deal with the issues that have arisen in the last week? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1207	First of all, what I've been questioning is whether I can be sure that a strategy is the right way to go. Click to close the curve What I have said, and what I stand for, is that more production should be moved home. We need to ensure that more fish landed in Norway can be processed in Norway. I think it is also bad climate that we send a lot of fish to China for processing there, then to get it back. I've talked to all the nutritionists to make sure that we can secure the landing of fish in Norway that we can process. I've been talking to the aquaculture industry to make sure that we can process and increase the value creation of the fish in that industry. We've made sure that the TaxFUNN system is there, so that business can invest and make sure that we get the right technology in place. I've been visiting businesses along the coast to hear their version of how you can get better, and I've been in a number of other areas around national, just to see what we can contribute as governments. Most people say: fix the framework conditions, both in terms of infrastructure – which the government follows – and other things. So this I follow up every day and try to find the right medicine. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1214	A selection has been created to look at the taxation of the aquaculture industry. The centre party is opposed to a land-interest tax on farming, but we are very much in favour of follow-up of the Storting decision. Here, the Storting wanted a distribution that balanced the financial interests and industrial interests in a good way. What we have been given is a long mandate as a reference to land-based interest tax, which goes a long way in arguing for land-based interest tax rather than other models and for the Marine Fund to enter the income compensation system. Those in the selection are academics, the main emphasis of the members is from Austland, and the industry has no representatives. My question is, why isn't the relatively clear order from Stortinget followed up? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1219	We believe that the order from Stortinget has been followed up. There are also economic operators in that sample, for example. NHO, through Seafood Norway and also other actors, have recorded those in the sample. There are probably also people from LO and others there, and there are also people who have a good knowledge of the industry, in the sample. When it comes to the actual work of the sample, it sort of falls under the finance minister, I expect the representative Pollestad to know that. So, as far as funds are concerned, and how the work itself is progressing is therefore under the constitutional responsibility of another Council of State. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1224	The Council of State itself said in its speech that the government has a common policy, and I think it is natural for the Minister of Fisheries to be able to answer questions relating to fish, including those concerning the taxation of fish, because this is a very central part of the framework for farming, which needs far-reaching conditions. Now it is the case that the Maritime Fund spends considerable money on coastal communities. Is it obvious that someone in the government and in the Ministry of Finance is annoyed by the fact that coastal communities are getting so much, but can the Council of State guarantee that the outcome of this process will not be that coastal communities are getting less than they are getting from the Maritime Fund today? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1229	First, I want to repeat, so that it's clear that in the case of taxes and taxes, to divide that bit, that's up to the Minister of Finance. Click to close the curve What I can say is that the work in the sample is going on, and I'm going to think that in respect of the sample's work, the representative Pollestad also agrees that the sample first has to do away with its work. Then you will come back to Stortinget with recommendations, and the Stortinget will then express its opinion and take the decisions that the Stortinget is in its right to make. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1236	Finally, the previous Minister for Fisheries had no problem commenting on it, on fish. I notice that the sitting fisheries minister is withdrawing from these issues, presumably because one actually adds to a rent tax that does not benefit coastal communities. But it can only be speculation. Click to close the curve What I thought I would ask questions about was leadership support. The government has cut off a lot of leadership support. There's a system to make sure that if you have a small boat that doesn't go far, and the reception is far away, you get help to carry the fish there. This allows us to use all the amazing resources that are spread around fjords and along the noses around the whole country, and it is good for the creation of value throughout the country. But the government is going to cut this down a lot, and it's going to be a structural measure on the reception side in many ways. Then I'd just like to explain it correctly, because I've never seen the Minister for Fisheries do that before: why would he want to implement this structural measure? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1243	First, to the introductory part of the representative Knag Fylkesnes. He has at least one thing in his post: Yes, there are pure speculations from Knag Fylkesnes’ page on how this sample will come out with its setting. That's why we should wait. Click to close the curve In the case of the management grant: firstly, funds have been reduced so that the funds will be the same as last year. The background to government proposals is, among other things, an evaluation that has just been carried out in this field. As we pointed out, several of the schemes within this scheme contribute little to achieving the objectives. Furthermore, the investigators considered that several of the schemes seem difficult to justify, while other schemes bear the mark of being aid which should also be channelled through the ordinary auxiliary equipment, see. the evaluation carried out by that scheme. In addition, it is possible for the sales laws, which are an actor with a monopoly on the initial marketing of fish, to also participate in and provide leadership subsidies, among other things. The herring sales team has done it. The other sales teams are also free to use collected funds in this field. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1250	I have to follow up on the representative Knag Fylkesnes regarding the leadership grant. Last year I was fresh at Thinget, and then this was missing for the Christian People's Party. And then we had 4 million in place. kr i revised. Now, in the budget agreement, we've got $10 million in place. kr, so we're back where we were last year, as the council says quite correctly. Click to close the curve But I have to say I was worried about the answer. The management grant is an important regional policy instrument for obtaining fish and shellfish from areas with weak reception capacity and to processing plants. This applies, for example: the crab industry in Trøndelag. So my question to the Council of State is, what does he see in the years that come, as regards the management of the leadership grant and the allocation of the state budget? Is the plan still cut, or is this an entry that we will still be able to find on the state budget? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1257	Now I hope at least that the negotiations are going well between the parties, so I hope that the Christian People's Party will then be able to clarify this at a relatively early stage in another forum, including with the others, in this respect. Click to close the curve In the case of the leadership grant itself, we still keep approx. half back, but in addition, as I pointed out in my previous answer, it is possible to use other arrangements. Firstly, the fishing industry is doing very well, including income, so it is fully possible to finance between the parties, but in addition it is included among others. a number of means relating to the capture we call, which can also be used to finance these schemes, including: The stock of herring sales has been involved in their field. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1264	The cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1269	If an equal share of our population had been working in Norway today as 10 years ago, the government budget would have received over 50 billion. kr more, which we could use for extra investment in new industry and in our business, for improved schools and a proper hospital offer throughout our country. Sweden has now almost recovered at the same level of investment, in new industries and new jobs as before the financial crisis. In Norway, we have been lying about flat in the last few years. Click to close the curve When the trade balance is weakened, as we've seen in recent years, when the value of our output is too low and imports are increasing, we also see that it affects another side of the economic development in Norway, that's that more of our wealth is financed by debt. The debt increases and the large wage increases together form part of the basis for the growing differences we are now seeing in Norway. Ten years ago, our employees in the private sector with the lowest wages were better off than they are today. It's a disturbing sign when we see what's happening in other countries around the world because of increasing differences and too weak prospects. Click to close the curve For this reason, the priority of the Labour Party in our draft government budget for 2019 is clear: Norway needs more jobs, we need permanent jobs, people need proper wages and decent pensions. That's why in the year that's coming, we're going to fight for everyone, no matter what you do, to have a pension from the first payroll they earn. It is a fundamental question of safety. Click to close the curve Security is a red thread that goes over to our policy in the nutrition committee's part of the state budget: food security. We believe that it's urgent to increase the safety of food, it's urgent to make sure that we actually have enough seeds to sow about the spring, enough grain. We are keen to achieve a common growth in the year to come, but unfortunately this matter is now down-priority to this draft state budget, which is probably also adopted for the Food Committee with the right parties, where we will have no clear plan for how to secure enough grain and seeds for the year to come. Click to close the curve We see that Norway is the country of opportunity, and with offensive policies, we can provide better health for people, more jobs throughout our country and increase security and preparedness with real self-sufficiency. Because what the Minister for Agriculture said in his speech is wrong. The Minister of Agriculture claimed that self-sufficiency is not impaired. Well, that's when you think about producing our food as much as possible on Norwegian resources. The development of centralisation that we see is not related to the country we are. The Labour Party believes that food policy must be based on the nature we have, and the country we are. That is why we are calling for a real review for 2019, and we have our own proposal that we expect a unanimous increase to end up over, so that we can actually increase security in Norway. Click to close the curve Similarly, there was a nuance missing in the post of Ingunn Foss from the Right. Because when we invest in better preparedness, it's that we get ourselves the grain, to look at it as a foundation that lasts for years. It is not intended to be used up immediately. No, it's an insurance that we're going to have in stock. Our budget is now starting to start the necessary job to strengthen safety in Norway, and we will do so in the field by field of the coming year, so that people in Norway can once again experience greater security and better prospects. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1294	In July this year we reached a milestone: For the first time in history there are over 2.7 million working in Norway, according to the AKU figures. There are now almost 100,000 more people employed than it was before this government took over. It took five years and one month from passing 2.6 million people employed, until we passed 2.7 million people employed. For those who now intend to boast of how many jobs were created in earlier periods in an oil-fired rise, I would say that for the first time 2,5 million people were employed in April 2008. Then it took five years and two months before it passed 2.6 million in June 2013 – again according to AKU figures. This means that more people are coming to work and that the level of employment is increasing. There is a clear trend break – it goes up. If the AKU figures for September 2017–September 2018 that we are now seeing, with more than 52 000 new jobs, this is the biggest increase in employment since 2007–08. Click to close the curve So maybe road construction works, maybe increased research seems, maybe tax-free, maybe it makes sense -- at least it's going the right way. In such a situation, of course, we have as a position and opposition different tasks to point to the reasons for this rise, but that it is the oil price rise that has led to this rise in employment that is wrong. What is certain is that there will be no more jobs of increased taxes, and increased taxes are the only thing I see the opposition agreeing on – whether that is the 5 billion of the Centre Party. SEK in taxes and charges, 10 billion of the Workers' Party. kr or SVS a little over 20 billion. kr. It looks like a little bit of the arrangement in this room is that for each step to the left, the increased tax bill doubles. Click to close the curve In any case, when the Workers' Party says they're betting on industrial development, it's a truth with relatively large modifications. Here it's not just about taking one hand and giving with another, but about taking both hands and not giving very much back. Click to close the curve When you look at the increase in taxes and taxes imposed on businesses in the Labour Party structure, it is twice as much as they spend on business. To give an example, the Workers' Party will say that they are more committed to the Environmental Technology Scheme, with 250 million. kr, but to finance it, they're going to take 500 million. kr from tax business. So that's twice as much. And in order to participate in the Eco-Technology Scheme, one has to set up as much as a sheep from the state, i.e. that after the arrangement of the Workers' Party you take out 750 million. kr from business and gives 250 million. kr back. That's the opposite of Coop Prix's slogan, a bad deal. What that means is that in Ulsteinvik, for example, where Kleben is on the one hand, with an international owner via a holding company in Luxembourg, and up to London, they don't pay taxes on wealth for the ships on the bed there. But on the other side of the fjord, where the Ulstein family still owns locally, they have to pay property taxes on the ship to be built and delivered. This does not lead to job creation in Norway. Click to close the curve Our main commercial safety net is the EEA Agreement. It is important for the nation of Norway, but most of all for local communities such as Odda, Husnes, Mongstad and Austevoll – local communities that live on export, and mainly exports to the EU. Without zinc, titanium and pig iron, no Odda, without aluminium no Husnes, without the veterinary agreement significant challenges for fishermen and salmon exporters from Austevoll, without petrol and diesel sports – and it is also the mainland industry – no Mongstad. ‘Noxit’, or a one-sided statement from Norway from the EEA, is well the political, commercial and economic parallel to extreme risk sports such as parachuting without parachute, knitting without knitting or hanging without wing – as the British now experience: ‘It will blow up in your face’. There is no need to investigate that this is a bad idea, that it ends here with ‘twings’, as it is called in the Bergens area. If you take a look at the investigations made by the British, everyone – absolutely everyone – will show that outsourcing is a bad idea and gives you a great deal of welfare loss. Nevertheless, while brexit is being played out like a Shakespearen trade policy Macbeth, where it is so obvious how wrong this is, that the EU is emerging across Europe and the conclusion of the EEA Agreement reaches new heights here, the Centre Party is taking the initiative to jump without a parachute, knit or hang glider. The idea of intensive disregarding the experiences of others is fundamentalist if you are willing to gamble with our future and the future of many large – and small – export-dependent communities throughout Norway. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1307	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1312	Norway – and to the extent that the rest of the world – is facing a fundamental shift. Often it is formulated as ‘the fourth industrial revolution’. Digitalisation is taking place across all sectors and changing the way we interact. It creates new ways of creating values, and it creates many, many new opportunities. Click to close the curve Norway is relatively well equipped to meet the changes. We have a highly educated population, we have a relatively well-developed infrastructure, and we tend to use new technology early. However, I am concerned that we are underestimating the significance and consequences of the upheavals, because the prerequisite for a successful transition is that we are able to be ahead of ourselves, that we are preparing for what is coming, that we can take control of the social consequences of development and not just get them caught. Click to close the curve Altin is referred to as the engine itself in the process of digitising and improving the efficiency of the public sector, thus also improving services and reducing costs for business and citizens. The work on changing Altin and the digital service provision from the public sector must therefore be continued and expanded. Several digital services are to be provided via Altinn, and efforts are being made to make them available on different digital platforms, such as tablets and smartphones, and through direct integration with industry’s own ICT systems. And even if it took some time when Altin asked for more money over several years to further develop it, it is good that that money has now come. Click to close the curve Then it has become public that the government is working on a restructuring that concerns the liability relationship between the Brønnøsund registers and Diffi. It creates uncertainty. It creates uncertainty about location, employment and the significance for the community of Brønnøysund. I am glad that the Council of State is trying to be clear that there is no reason for this turmoil, among other things. through NRK Nordland, where he repeatedly — more specifically ten times — expressed that fact. Nevertheless, there has been a nagging uncertainty, and one of the reasons for this is perhaps the history of the government, which has not been concerned with securing the Norwegian environment of competence outside the largest cities. Klara Klock, who was in Bodø, was moved to Oslo, and when Health Mid-Norway was going to develop a new patient journal system for 2.7 billion. kr, a tendering procedure was initiated which excluded Norwegian suppliers. Click to close the curve It is now felt that the Altinn and Brønnøsund registers are in play. I have noticed the State Council's assurances, both in the media and here today, but I'm not calm yet. I will continue to follow developments in Altinn, and I will keep track of the fact that the Council of State delivers on the assurances that he has provided experimentally. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1325	Industry, value creation and jobs are essential for Norway to go well and for people here to feel good. Click to close the curve The Progress Party continues to talk about freedom and the Right if everything they hope will continue to go well. National ownership, right of access and administration depend on deliberate regulation and policy. The government’s response is more competition, tender and privatisation – costing what it will cost. Fortunately, in these days, we are looking at transferring instruments of nutrition from state to state, which will make cooperation between business and peoples around the country closer and better. Click to close the curve Around the country, we must also be conscious of preparedness. The progress party boasts of self-sufficiency in Norway, but there is a paradox when the conflict between farmers locally and the administration is so high nationally, when the price of Norwegian quality food is still dumped in the shops as we approach Christmas, when wage developments decline and the number of farms in Norway is still on the way. Click to close the curve This year's drought shows how vulnerable we are. We risk, among other things, lack of Norwegian potato, animal feed and seed. The centre party wants larger seed stocks and the establishment of cereal stocks. A climate fund with funds, transport support and irrigation needs to tackle more unstable weather. Furthermore, business is screaming for broadband, risk capital and clear priorities for renewable raw materials and energy sources from public administrations. Click to close the curve Competence is the gold of our time. Funding for fresh oils and agricultural training is the Christian People's Party which ensures in the budget of the year. The training in agriculture and the adult agronomist has a good number of applicants, but the government has failed to provide agricultural training at vocational schools. Structural reform in the higher education sector weakens agricultural training and campuses throughout the country. Plant science has too few applicants. We need more knowledge-based plant production, not less. Click to close the curve NIBIO, with mountain and plant research, is important. Nevertheless, the government is sitting quietly watching NIBIO, the department of the onion – the largest in plant research throughout the country – be shut down. The right also boasts of the research being done, but the fact is that the government is cutting funds for agricultural research support. Click to close the curve Unfortunately, it is a fact: the government is taking industries in Norway in the wrong direction. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1342	I would like to use the opportunity to raise an industry that has major challenges, but which at the same time has great potential for growth in the number of jobs – both directly and not least indirectly. It is an industry that creates activity and jobs across the country and that also has a high value for a wide range of different groups in society. But there is also an industry that needs to review and improve its framework conditions if these opportunities for growth are to be realised. Of course, I'm talking about the horse industry in Norway. Click to close the curve The horse industry in Norway has long traditions. We know that. We also know that the horse has been replaced with a tractor and a forest machine, and that the horse has a different role in Norway than before. In order to develop the horse industry, the framework conditions must be up-to-date. Therefore, it is both correct and important that this industry is now referred to in this setting. It is an industry that employs about 16,500 people in Norway. It's a big number, and the possibilities to increase that number further are well present. Click to close the curve This industry is much more than just sports and games. The horse industry is involved in riding clubs — there are around 340 of them in the country — and riding schools, as it is about. 220 of. There are about 400 different plants around the country, and about 400 different plants around the country. 300 farms are involved in commercial activities through e.g.: To the tunet business. The Hjørgunn farm in Fredrikstad, Eastfold, offers a farm that also offers work training and practice places. And then, of course, it's the busy and galloping horses, which are an important part of the industry, and which, through Norwegian Rikstototo, generate income for the industry as such. Click to close the curve In the setting on page 36, the Workers' Party has a note that mentions that in 2019 we are adding 20 million. kr to strengthen the development of the industry. And if we look at page 56 of the vote, the Labour Party agrees with the majority comment to ask the government to make an assessment of the totalization fee itself and the device on it. It's going to be an important job for the government, and I assume that this investigation shows the great potential of the industry for growth in the number of jobs around the country. Click to close the curve Now we talk from time to time – perhaps in other circumstances – about Swedish conditions. In this context, it may be necessary to look at Sweden, where the horse industry is a major player that creates a lot of activity and many jobs. We can have the same possibility here in Norway. Click to close the curve It is urgent – I hope the government will start the investigation as soon as possible. The industry has a strong need for clarification. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1357	I'm from the largest city in More and Romesdal, Ålesund. Wherever I turn, I see sea, fjord and healthy, and I see boats in all colors and sizes. From the dawn of time we have reaped great resources from the sea, and the sea has been the most important transport year of all time. And shipping and seas are just important to me, because it's about the future. Click to close the curve Shipping is part of the climate problem, part of the solution and a major opportunity for Norwegian business: Shipping is part of the problem because almost 3 million. tonnes of domestic climate emissions of Norway come from shipping. Click to close the curve Shipping is part of the solution because shipping can help us cut emissions significantly, e.g.: if we move more goods from road to sea. Click to close the curve Shipping is a great opportunity for Norwegian business because the rest of the world is going to cut its emissions. Click to close the curve The Paris Agreement is binding. This means that demand for climate-friendly solutions will increase. In order to ensure that Norway continues to lead the world in climate-friendly shipping, the Workers' Party will strengthen the allocations through the MAROFF research programme. Click to close the curve The working party will also contribute to more climate-friendly shipping, and we believe that our increased allocations to the eco-innovation scheme will be important for this. In order to contribute to fleet renewal, the Workers' Party also wishes to maintain the ship mastering system. Click to close the curve Some think we are at the top of a wave of wealth, while I think we in the sea and shipping are at the very beginning of a story about a whole new Norway. It's about the coast, it's about the sea, and it's about the people who live there. The sea is becoming more important and important in food and employment. Click to close the curve The story of the port of Norway is the story of my home town of Ålesund. It's based on the natural resources around us. We are further developing the technology, we are creating new products and thus growth in industries. The Workers' Party therefore proposes a marine value creation programme to shorten the path from knowledge to value creation. The aim is to give businesses in these industries a door to the instrument, where we gather responsibility for mobilising funds across existing schemes and creating as seamless an application process as possible. Click to close the curve In order for us to remain in the driver's seat in terms of sea and shipping, we need to focus on what is happening both at sea and below sea, and I believe that the Labour Party's draft budget for 2019 just shows this. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1384	Research is a prerequisite for Norway’s further growth and employment. The economy is now in an upturn, but we did not get in quickly enough after the oil price drop. The government is using the money incorrectly. Weaker investment growth requires more targeted policies, and climate challenges require new action. We need research to address the impact of the changes we are facing, to strengthen the development of society and institutions to develop new industries, and to put new technologies into practice in a sustainable way. The Workers' Party will have a new research-based business structure with several competence jobs across the country. We focus both on research that benefits industries where we already have advantages, such as sea, soil and forest, and on climate-friendly industry and digitalisation. Click to close the curve Let me mention some of the priorities. We have $15 million. to marine, coastal and fjord research centres, promoting cooperation between research and business. We have funds for the Blue Competence Centre in South, which links research and business and can develop knowledge about new marine jobs. In the transition from fossil to bio-based resources, we're proposing $12 million. kr for research and technology development on soil and forest. Keywords here are forest planting and plant processing, research, technology, development and industrial use of the forest as raw materials. Instead of cutting, we're adding to NIBIO, the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, which is the largest multi-disciplinary research institute in agriculture and the environment and an important knowledge actor in the green shift. We have 60 million. kr to the bioeconomy scheme in Innovation Norway, and we will ensure that Norway is close to climate-friendly shipping and strengthen the research programme MAROFF by 30 million. kr. We're raising research on fish health and welfare in the marine notification and have 10 million. kr in free resources for the Veterinary Institute. We are focusing on research centres for industrial digitisation to further develop technology and improve opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises to put them into practice. Click to close the curve So we have in some high ambitions for nutrient research and targeted priorities in the research budget. It is significantly larger than Norway gets with this government. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1393	It has been said by those who have a little glimmer in their eyes when they look at SV, that SV is good at distributing, but not so good at creating. That's said especially from the right-hand side. Well, in the situation we're in now, at least I don't agree with it when we're going to change into a green society. I represent the Transport Committee. Within that field, it is very much to be picked up, and it is very important that the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Transport talk together about the opportunities that lie there. Click to close the curve I see that it is a very short distance from our traditional oil and gas industry and our industry with falls and hydropower, shipping, the shipbuilding industry – we can take the fish farming industry too – to liquid wind power and coastal electrification. These areas are extremely important. When it comes to the electrification of the coast, we see a potential that is enormous. Click to close the curve The government has continued it – I was about to say ours – the red-green government began on: electrification of the ferries, the speedboats. The counties are usually the furthest. Hordaland and Trøndelag are very good, and they're drivers. They need incentives to phase in electric ferries, which cost more for the county in acquisition than traditional fossils. That's why we're adding, among other things. into 200 million. kr extra through the municipal budget as a sort of reward scheme. Click to close the curve If you set environmental requirements for electrification of our coast, you'll have to adjust to it and put in battery solutions or other zero-emission solutions. The Norwegian industry is working on it. We're so far ahead that I think we're talking about two-three environments in the world that are now on the threshold of a whole new world in terms of shipping technology. We have to take that opportunity, it's great, and that's why we have to set these environmental requirements. Unfortunately, we had a lost chance, we could make greater demands on the coastal route offer. There was one thing here in the hall about a year ago where important players in the industry themselves would have stronger demands, but it became a very calm one. Then it is nice to see that Havila, who got the deal on the coast route, will install batteries. They'll run over an hour on batteries now, out and in our fjords. That's amazing! This is an export article, both in terms of technology and in terms of the finished products. It is very important that we follow up on this with larger appropriations for Enova, among other things. That's why we've done 1.2 million. Extra kroner for that. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1404	The Working Party, Center Party and SV show up in the Sara case setting. They believe that it would be right to set aside the Supreme Court pending the assessment by the UN Committee on Human Rights. Click to close the curve With all due respect to notifying, I would like to express my concern at how the Workers' Party, which considers itself to be a state-bearing party, challenges the principle of power-allocation by the intervention of those who are legislative powers in the execution of a judgment by the judiciary. Opinions of the UN Committee on Human Rights are, as is known, not legally binding on Norway but are to be regarded as recommendations. Click to close the curve In order to ensure sustainable reindeer management, it has been necessary to adapt the reindeer to the grazing basis. The size has for many years agreed that the reindeer has to decrease. It has also been supported by the National Audit Office. Former Minister of Agriculture Trygve Slagsvold Vedum stated on 25 September 2012 that it was about the future of the industry, and he demanded that the industry find the slaughter knife. Click to close the curve The reduction decision is part of the larger scale adaptation implemented. Here 23l side parts were decided to reduce their purity. Of these, only one reindeer has not reduced the reindeer in line with the decision. The cleaning authorities ordered Jovsset Ánte Sara to reduce the herd from 1l6 to 75 animals, but Sara instead increased its reindeer to 342 animals in spring flocks as of 31 March 2018, i.e. before calving. Click to close the curve Here the site has had the opportunity to solve the situation by preparing a reduction plan themselves to protect young established families or those who have previously reduced. They have not wanted to do so, and the reindeer management authorities have therefore taken the necessary decisions on proportionate reduction, i.e. percentage equal reduction for all. Here the law does not open up for another distribution of the reduction. Waiting to launch the reduction decision against Sara will be very unfair to the 230 side shares that have been loyal and followed up the decisions of the authorities. Click to close the curve I fully understand that for the individual reindeer it has been, and is, demanding, that the situation is demanding, and I sympathise with Sara and the reindeer owners. But the judgment of the Supreme Court is a consequence of the fact that the reindeer has not used the possibilities they themselves have to find a sensible regulation. Click to close the curve It is in particular that the proposers, and in particular the Centre Party, are in the forefront to let supranational committees steer Norwegian reindeer management policies and ignore ecological sustainability. The centre party wants to undermine Norwegian right of access to Norwegian resources, but also the work already done by reindeers to create an ecologically sustainable development in the reindeer industry. Click to close the curve It must also be challenging for the environmental parties SV and MDG to be then to those degrees in the off-take, for example. The animal protection alliance, which is concerned with ecological sustainability and the reduction of the number of tamreins, so as to avoid malnutrition and starvation. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1423	An updated national soil protection strategy is presented as an annex to the budget proposal for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The strategy was adopted by a Joint Nutrition Committee in December 2015. In the Decision, the Stortinget set a target that the annual re-disposal of cultivated land should not be more than 4000 deches and that the target should be achieved gradually by 2020. Click to close the curve There is now a greater focus on the value of soil, and we see that municipalities place greater emphasis on this in their planning. It has produced good results, and re-disposal is now the lowest in 30 years. The re-disposal in 2017 was the lowest since the registration started in 1976. Click to close the curve The government has implemented — or is in the process of implementing — all measures of the soil protection strategy. Several measures are work that needs to be carried out continuously, e.g.: training of new elected representatives. The measures implemented include new national expectations for regional and municipal planning, new state planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport planning and the establishment of a national soil protection price. It is also worth noting that soil protection has for the first time been incorporated into the NTP during this government. Click to close the curve The government believes that it is very important to facilitate the provision of food as a resource for future generations. The work done over the last few years has been successful, and the decline has declined significantly. Click to close the curve Innovation is a measure to increase agricultural production. In recent years, new cultivation has increased significantly. In 2017, the new cultivation was approx. five times the size of the redisposal. Nearly 23,000 Decors were grown, while 4,025 Decors were redispatched. Click to close the curve There is little knowledge of the agriculture’s own degradation of cultivated land. A survey carried out in 2017 by the SSB and NIBIO shows that agriculture itself accounted for 22 p.m. of the reduction, on average 1 750 deches per year. The government wanted to carry out a general application and reporting obligation to the Land Act in order to regulate its own degradation. On 6 February 2018, the Storting asked the government to investigate, assess and, where appropriate, propose a case that would ensure transparency around and limit the use of option agreements for the development of cultivated land, and this has been said by the government that it will. Click to close the curve With regard to the other proposals in the matter, we believe that the rules of the law of the land are strict enough. There is currently a ban on re-disposal and there are specific reasons for exempting it. However, it is necessary to be able to grant a derogation in some cases and it is also important that municipalities, as a planning authority, may grant a derogation. It is an important principle that decisions should be taken at the lowest possible level and not be overarched by the State. Municipal self-government is important, and municipalities and local politicians are better able than the state to meet the local challenges. Click to close the curve With strengthened focus, good dialogue, coordination between state and local authorities and training and awareness-raising work, we reach our goals. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1443	The Central Party has a policy for the whole country, to make use of the whole country. We want to invest in industries where Norway has a natural advantage, by strengthening existing productions, but also by further developing new production. It is then incredibly important that one contributes to facilitating profitable production in Norway. Click to close the curve Recurring with this government and the majority who are responsible for the state budgets that have been settled in recent years is that one has introduced ever-increasing new taxes that have been applied, most often through budgetary agreements close before Christmas. It has, among other things, resulted in significant increases in charges for domestic air transport in rounds after rounds. What does that lead to? Well, it leads to less profitability, not better profitability. One has also increased the VAT on travel for several rounds. It will in turn lead to less profitability, not more profitability. As far as the food industry is concerned, last year a night tax shock resulted in a reduction in the profitability of those producing in Norway. Of course, when one in addition continues to maintain completely unfair discrimination between Norwegian and foreign actors through the 350-kroner limit, it further reinforces such decisions. This year, the taxi industry is getting dizzy, through a massive increase in fees on some car models, which are not least car models that carry some disabled people. Click to close the curve The central party wants a policy that goes in a different direction. We have targeted measures to strengthen Norwegian jobs, Norwegian interests and Norwegian business. It is fine when a person speaks in general terms about the fact that there has been a reduction in the tax on profits, but it helps very little to get a reduction in the tax on profits if he has no profit to tax on. Click to close the curve This year we have experienced a particularly demanding summer for Norwegian agriculture. The drought that Norway experienced, which one has not seen in generations, has shown us how vulnerable we are in the world we live in. Therefore, it is little wonder that the majority has not been willing to set aside a single crown for the storage of cereal seed and food grain, when just one of what one looks is incredibly important, is to contribute to increasing production based on Norwegian resources, not to conclude new agreements that facilitate increased imports into Norway. In addition, we see that emergency storage makes us less vulnerable. Click to close the curve The centre party has a different course of business policy. We are facilitating a policy that stands up for Norwegian interests and jobs. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1456	There is a very paradoxical debate currently taking place in Norway, and it is linked to the privatisation of welfare, which is supposed to be the main argument for the right side of the business debate. So that's the test of whether you're in favour of or against private value creation. It's amazing that we've ended up there, because really the fact is that you want more privatized well-being and say that there's going to be business opportunities, a sign that the real business opportunities are going to be far too bad in Norway today. It is quite obvious, for business and many capital owners place the money where they get the most returns, and when you have the opportunity to make more money on child protection and care for the elderly, you do it quickly when the opportunities of productive activity in industry and green industry are too weak. Click to close the curve Then I was reminded of one thing. This summer there was a play for a nutrition debate, where the liberal right-hand side was going to try to draw this relationship. Then Kristin Clemet wrote: ‘No policy-makers will fail on questions about the importance of having a well-functioning public sector.’ Taking note of that on paper, the Minister of Transport actually came into the Chamber, who is now implementing a kind of misunderstood privatisation of railway operations in Norway – because it is not possible in this government to come up with a practical, well-defined distinction between what is going to be industry and what democracy is going to do in governing. Click to close the curve Now that we are really discussing the need for major industrial investment in Norway, increased value creation and new industries, and the answer is that we should have more privatised well-being, it suggests that this debate must continue with full force in the coming year, for industrial investment must rise – not privatisation of well-being. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1470	The most striking thing about this debate is that there are so few from the government party who have talked about the development of incomes in agriculture. There has been a recurrence in the previous budget. Then there was a relationship where there was good weather, there was a good surplus in those times, which gave payments to the farmers, one had an agricultural policy from 2013 that gave effect, one had a customs protection that gave room to play at an increased milk price, and one had a government council in Jon Georg Dale, who gave gas, or gave doping. But then came the crash – the incomes fell, and the farmers were insecure – and then it's not that interesting to talk about. Click to close the curve I would wish that one had a government party that was more concerned with taking responsibility for the situation that people are in, than just boasting when things go well. Click to close the curve To the Minister of Economic Affairs, it was called a space map. I would like to remind the Minister of Industry that the Red-Green Government chose to present this to the Stortinget in the form of a big message. But it is also possible to get a full deal on a strategy and to talk to the Minister of Agriculture about how he has done it with the soil protection strategy, which was annexed to the Stortinget, and on which the Stortinget had its own case. It's possible if you want to. Click to close the curve So a short comment on forced action in reindeer cases that we've been discussing a lot today: it's not about putting aside a Supreme Court judgment. There is an administrative decision in the case of debt. The Supreme Court does not decide that matter. The Supreme Court only states that the administrative decision is not invalid. The fact that the Storting has a view of an administrative decision, that it is a good thing to problematize it, seems to me to be very strange and difficult to understand. Click to close the curve I am pleased that the representative Ingunn Foss was up and said a few words about the soil protection strategy, or the update of the soil protection strategy. He's got a little attention, but he's one of the important parts of the budget setting. The centre party is aware that we are now about to start thinking about what we are going to do after 2020, which is the time today's soil protection targets are valid for, and we should have wished that we had put in place a number of new measures. Click to close the curve I have to say that I am disappointed with the Christian People's Party's passivity in the update of the soil protection strategy. I would like us to have more of the representative of Bollestad's tendencies in the committee, where the opposition could have formed several numbers for new measures to strengthen soil protection in Norway. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1485	I'll say a little bit about animal welfare. There have been many ugly cases in the last year. This happens over and over again, even if the Food Safety Authority has its tests, tests and controls. It's enough to mention the pig team in Rogaland, and I don't know if it's special, or if there's a problem across the country. I say this as a good farm friend, and it's friends who are going to deal with things that are unpleasant and difficult, and that give the industry a bad reputation. Click to close the curve I think it is very good that there has been a law to shut down the fur industry, and that this industry should be out of Norwegian industry. SV will have a model that provides for rapid closure, combined with means of conversion, and we will ask the Ministry to carry out effective treatment after the consultation round as soon as the Stortinget takes a decision on closure – and that decision can be reached in the next year. Click to close the curve I would like to challenge the Workers' Party and the Centre's party on why they are not involved in the observation that they should decide to organise these subsidies in agriculture according to animal welfare criteria. They could have done that. They were involved in the discussion of the agricultural report, and I do not understand why they have now turned around or are not in that proposal. Click to close the curve I think people are willing to pay for good animal welfare, and I think Norwegian agriculture will just make a profit from it. If there is an animal welfare mark on the products – a clear and clear label – people will buy them, because there is good purchasing power in Norway. Then people get to choose, and I actually think they'll choose those products. This will serve Norwegian agriculture. This will largely serve the smaller uses as well. Prices may go up, and that is an advantage for Norwegian agriculture. Click to close the curve We must bet on quality – including good animal welfare – instead of quantity. We can't compete with that. Everyone who comes with Norwegian agriculture and compares us with countries down in Europe, for example. Click to close the curve Therefore, I would like to recommend to those who can and will and believe something real and honest with animal welfare, to support SV's proposal on this, proposal No. Nineteen in the position. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1500	The catchment area is occupied by fishing along the whole coast and thus also by the fact that the coastal/sea conditions are to be maintained. The fishing industry is losing a lot of value in Norway, and the Central Party believes that the fish belongs to the Norwegian people. This is what we in the Center Party believe can be protected by the Act of Participation that is in force today, and we are very attached to it. Click to close the curve Fishing resources must be managed in a way that ensures value creation and jobs in local communities and along the whole coast, and that benefits the entire population of Norway as a result. Fishing is one of the most important areas for the Centre Party in our alternative state budget for 2019. Click to close the curve The government's budget proposal will lead to the centralisation of fisheries. The centre party is busy having living communities along the whole coast. We therefore propose to reverse several of the cuts made by the government in key fisheries policy instruments and to introduce new measures to strengthen fisheries and the fisheries industry. Click to close the curve The central party believes the government's proposal for a government budget will affect those who have their way at sea. We don't want to go along with that, so the Senter Party will keep track of fishing and welfare stations and increase fishing off. The Centre Party also proposes to increase the yield and increase the number of nutrition measures in the fisheries sector, in order to contribute to good development and to increase the profitability of fishing and fishing activities. Click to close the curve What is now happening along the coast and at sea gives us great possibilities, and we have to make sure to get the values anchored in Norway and along the coast. This is what we think the Central Party has an incredibly good policy for. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1513	Today's debate has been illustrative, I think. I want to give tribute to the representative Ingunn Foss, from the Right, who has kept two good posts, if I'm going to put on the right glasses. Elles has been very few – strikingly few – from the right-hand side who have shared in the debate. It may be that it's because you don't have a lot of ideas in this area, because the government's strategy in the field of nutrition has not been to do anything, but just let it happen – the strange right-hand side's way of thinking about business policy. Click to close the curve As the government councils were in, using a toolbox – that's quite clear. No one is criticising the government for not using the Toolbox, but what does a toolbox do? One has implemented a wealth tax code, which one cannot find in terms of value creation at all, and which most economists in the northern hemisphere have opposed. It has one completed. Click to close the curve A keeper of the bias in the tax system, which means that property is favored, rather than creating new industries and new industries. One has increased oil dependence and the use of oil money, and that's not right, what the Council of State claims. I am a little surprised at his understanding of the action space in the Norwegian economy. One must not phase in money from the State pension fund abroad; one can do so. But it's probably the rule that one has applied, in this government, that one should only use a maximum every year, regardless of what the money goes to. At least they don't go to new value creation. Click to close the curve One also has a cut in industrial depreciation schemes, which means that we are not competitive here to land, compared to neighbouring countries, when it comes to industrial establishment. Click to close the curve In addition, extra emissions – plus everything else I've been in for. Then getting criticism from the positioning party that we are talking down on business policy, and that we should now rather talk about these measures, is a little surprising. To put it that way: it's not by talking about industrial policy that you get the speed of making value in this country – it's by doing something that actually leads to making value. Click to close the curve Finally, I want to go into what I think is a big loss, and that is based on the wrong knowledge about Jovsset Ánte Sara-saka. The Supreme Court was founded on the UN Human Rights Committee. It is they and their judgements Supreme Court has taken on the basis of how we should understand Section 2 of the Law of Human Rights of Norway. That one here hastens through a coercion case about the imposition of a reduction, I think is a great shame. There is something that is going to be attached to the parties behind this, especially the Christian People's Party, which has not yet entered the government. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1536	A four-hour debate is immediately over. I don't know if it's brought us anything else. What I've noticed is at least that the right parties, and perhaps especially the Minister of Industry, have taken on a self-fulfillment that is impressive. It might be worth noting. But I think it's worth warning against as well. I believe that their self-satisfaction can overshadow some major challenges, not least in terms of the need for conversion and conversion power in the Norwegian economy and in the Norwegian economy. Click to close the curve I said in my post that much is going well and much is good in Norway. There is also a lot of good things in Norwegian business, but it is demanding that some of the leading NHO and LO bosses point so clearly to the challenges and weaknesses of the Norwegian economy, and the inability to convert, as well as that it may not be the robust growth that many of the government members and government parties hope for. I think it's worth remembering. Because now we're back to what was Right Mantra before 2013: the two-part economy in the Norwegian economy. That's what's actually the result of what's now the growth, that's the growth of oil and gas that's the cause of the driving forces. Click to close the curve Then I get annoyed when Røe Isaksen tries to present it as if an overall opposition is against private value creation. It's nonsense. It is as if I were to say that Torbjørn Røe Isaksen as an EU member is against the EEA because the Progress Party is against the EEA. That's not true, what he's expressed. The representative Foss has boasted of the messages and all the strategies put forward. That's good, but they're imposed by the Stortinget. That's what's the challenge. The government has no own initiative. The representative, Eidem Løvaas, speaks of the fact that the Labour Party will almost only have employees over the State budget. No, that's not true. But we want more teachers, we want more people to work in the health and care sector, we want more doctors and researchers – just to help make value-making happen more in the private sector. Click to close the curve I am pleased that the Minister for Fisheries is travelling the coast and collecting knowledge and impulses. But when we're wondering what measures he'll take to boost industrial growth in Norway based on the amazing fishing resources, he gets the answer. I'm amazed at that. Click to close the curve Finally, Minister of Industry: A strategy for hazardous waste: To reduce the need to landfill hazardous waste in industry – is it a good idea, a right idea, or is it a wrong idea? It would be nice and useful if the Minister of Industry could take 15 seconds to answer that question. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1549	The representative of Aasland appears to have discovered by himself that Norway is in the middle of a transition. We are in the midst of a demanding transition, and our policy is working. Click to close the curve In his main post, Aasland said that the policy of the Right and the Government parties is very poor. Back to my post: it's not entirely related if you look around, because it's going incredibly well in Norway, and fortunately we heard that from the representative of Aasland up here. It reminds me a little bit of when agriculture went very well for a while back and the explanation from the opposition was that it was because it was so nice weather. What is the reason for this, that Norway is doing so well? Is that funny? In the case of the opposition, it is probably inconvenient, because it is more difficult to attack. Click to close the curve Back to the main posts of Aasland's representative, where he talked about having constantly met with the business community. I'm in many of the same meetings, with him, but also in other business meetings. I think you might sometimes hear what you want to hear in those meetings, because he had never heard anyone say that wealth tax was a challenge. Then I want to ask him: Has he ever heard anyone say that they want more property taxes? It is in the alternative budget of the Workers' Party. I don't think so. But tax is obviously the solution to everything. Click to close the curve To the centre party: one of the posts of the representative Pollestad was about centralisation. This has been refused once after. But I'm going to relate to a source that the Center Party tends to listen to, the nation, who wrote in the leadership for a time ago that it looks like we need Right in Government to move state jobs out of Oslo. It happened last time the Right was in government, and it happens this time the Right is in government. This happened to a small extent when the Senterpartie put in government. Click to close the curve The centre party is otherwise quite predictable. They attack unpredictability at government parties, while they themselves want to send shock waves into business by taking us out of the EEA, but become quite bland when you point to what it's like in the United Kingdom. But they're saying they're going to think about something, they're going to think about something better. The installation to Pollestad was also quite paradoxical when he raised the climate policy as offensive and much better than the government, while he started the article by talking about why they wanted to continue with coal power. Then it's dark – it's carbon black. Click to close the curve The Socialist Left said emissions are rising. At the same time as the representative was standing here, there was a case at VG.no that shows that they went down by 1.6 pst. in 2017 compared to 2016 and that was the second consecutive year. He said that we have to become more concerned with value creation and less of owners. We agree on that, I hope we can continue with that in the future. And he said that in five years it's not done anything in the government's policy that has led to value creation. It sounds incredible, and if you look around, you'll see that it's wrong. Click to close the curve I think I will conclude that the alternative budgets of the three opposition parties are alternative budgets with alternative facts for an alternative reality. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1566	The reason why I take the word now, is that I heard an article that I felt required an answer. It came from the representative of Gülsvik. That was interesting, because he pointed out that there was a problem with fees, among other things. because they came even if you went with a deficit. Then it would be good if you had taken it into account in the Centre Party and therefore added up to a tax package that did not go up to the maximum if you went down with a deficit. But it's made by the Center Party, because one of the items they have is an increase in property tax of about 1.5 billion. This means getting a tax that comes independently of profits or deficits and that beats the entire tax burden – and a little more than that – presented in their alternative government budget. Click to close the curve In addition, the authorised representative said that an increase in charges had been made on a type of vehicle specially adapted for the carriage of disabled persons. It is also wrong, because the type of vehicle we then talk about – major buses in the taxi industry – follows a different charging regime and still has a lower charge. Click to close the curve In short, it was a little special post, and so I felt the need to take the word to it, in something that is really a little line. But something is in the record here forever, and then it must not be undisputed. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1575	I have to answer to the representative of Knag Fylkesnes. What we have up here today is the question of whether or not the smallest reindeer flocks should be protected against reindeer reduction when introduced for everyone. In order to add the facts to the case, I will use part of my speaking time to read from the proposition where the Minister of Agriculture and Food of the Central Party promoted the current reindeer management law in 2007. Then the department, which was run by the Center Party, wrote the following: ‘However, the Ministry does not agree with the committee’s proposal that the reduction should apply only to those who have more than 200 pure. The sample proposed this limit because smaller holdings were to be protected in the first instance. For several reasons, the Ministry is concerned about setting such a lower limit. Firstly, the starting point of the law on a proportionate reduction would mean that the largest units would have to take the largest share of the decrease adopted. In addition to this, setting a lower limit on the contribution of a side effect to the reduction could in the long term lead to an unfortunate economic structure that would both weaken the total and average profitability of the side effect. In other words, the possibility of operating economically sound reindeer operations may be undermined. This is a different position from that in ot.prp. [[2004-2005]] No 99 That proposition was adopted at Stortinget in June 2007 with the support of the red-green lots, which had submitted the proposition. Then it is also the law that has underpinned the Supreme Court judgment that has been passed and that is based on the Law on Repurchase. Click to close the curve I also think that the representative Knag Fylkesnes in the media could have explained why he agreed to postpone a bill that he promoted on behalf of SV before the summer holiday. It was a proposal to reintroduce the protection provisions of 200 pure. But the representative of Knag Fylkesnes then chose to postpone it after the Business Committee had held a consultation meeting with the Sametinget. Knag Fylkesnes should do the trick of why he chose to do it this way. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1587	I was accused of being self-satisfied, and I don't want to wear that at all. I'm proud of everything that's going on in Norway, not least what's going on in private business. The reason why we still want to sit in government is that we are not satisfied. There's a lot left to do. We have new problems to solve, new challenges. That's why I used a part of my post on just that -- talk about simplification, need for even more research, a renewed industrial policy, a boost for the mineral industry, an even better tool, etc., etc. After five years in government, it is absolutely vital that we not just lean back or travel around the country to get applause for what we have done. We need to move forward. Click to close the curve The representative of Terje Aasland has asked me if it is a good idea to have a strategy to reduce the amount of waste. It is a very good idea, in fact so good that the Ministry of Climate and Environment, which is responsible for this, sent a letter to the Environment Directorate on 13 July this year asking them to draw up such a strategy. They have a reply deadline of 1 March 2019. Now it's five months ago, and it's very hectic at Stortinget in July, so I realize you don't get all the news, but it's already decided. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1595	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1600	That is a good point for the representative of Aasland to say that it is scary for the government to be satisfied, because I have now listened to the end of the debate, and the really big issues, the growing differences in Norway, the too weak investments in industry and real jobs, have not been accepted. That is why we believe in the Workers' Party that our alternative proposal for how to use the money in 2019, by 2 billion. kr more for value creation and jobs, is a proper start. That's what's going to be the summary of today's debate. We need full force in the future to reduce differences in Norway – because it provides a productive society, a secure society, and therefore both labour and business policies are closely linked for us who believe in the use of democracy for progress. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1605	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1610	It is true, as the representative Reiten says, that in 2007 one went away from the reindeer law-making committee’s proposal to have a bottom-up deduction when it came to slaughtering, i.e. to screen the smallest actors – quite correctly. I disagreed with it, even though it was red-green policy. SV's policy is to be busy with a bottom-up subtraction, that's quite right. But either one is unanimous or disunity in that decision, this matter is whether we should stick to the top judgment of the UN's understanding of human rights. That's what's going on. One cannot blame for something that happened in 2007, one must go in and see what this situation is today. Click to close the curve When it comes to the proposal we put forward in ours, it's true that we slowed down the treatment of it because the whole thing was critical of that device. But what we're quite a few people with the whole thing about is that we have to have a mechanism that protects the smallest actors, so that the most possible access to this cultural industry. That's where I mean everyone in this room must be. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1617	I've been listening to the debate today, but I don't think it's necessarily so much new that has emerged. Sanddrøen and Aasland are constantly promoting what they call predictability in industrial policy and policy. Then it's a little strange that the same two representatives from the Workers' Party prize their proposal, with 5 billion. It is a matter of building a welfare society that we must also have jobs, and then we must stimulate them. In many ways, it is also a paradox that the same representatives last year were opposed when we removed what went on machine taxes, which meant an incredible amount, not least for industry. Click to close the curve Some of this debate goes along the known tracks. I agree with Knag Fylkesnes that reception stations are important along the whole coastline. The left has stood for it, and we need to find solutions so that we have a well-developed system, so that we also have fishing and reception stations throughout the country. But it is also a paradox when the debate here is about underbalance or overproduction in an agricultural market. The best thing is always that you have a balance. It shall benefit both the consumer and not least agriculture as such. I have argued in many respects that we must now also look at a market outside this country, precisely for the products that agriculture has. Click to close the curve Then it's the well-known trace from the Center Party that you get into time and time again in debate when they disagree. I have an agricultural background myself, and I have to say that there are some people who have really been capable of so-called centralization, it is agriculture itself, without all the world being mentioned much from the Central Party. And why is that done? Well, of course, to maximise the potential for income in it, but also at the same time to strengthen the agricultural sector in the districts. Click to close the curve Finally, in many of today’s debate, a person has been involved in reindeer, cultural activities and the indigenous population. This has always been close to the Left's heart. I hear the debate, and there are going to be some paradoxes about the last article on Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes. The left has been responsible for ecologically sustainable nutrition all the time. I'm not saying that the issue that has been discussed today is just simple, I'm not saying that, but I'm saying that we have to look at how we get a sustainable nutrition etc. in the case of reindeer operations. Many of us will follow this, because this is important to us. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1628	The representative, Tom-Christer Nilsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1633	Brief note: There is no investment in industrial construction in Norway when you take out — at least if you take a conservative estimate — 4 billion. kr from business, then to put in again 2 through different schemes. In practice, it is a scheme that reduces the possibility of investment in industry and industry. And the way you do it, the industry hits especially hard, because it hits physical assets hardest. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1638	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1643	First of all, to the Minister of Industry, I must say that when he is not satisfied, it is impressive to hear the cheerfulness he had in his speech. Click to close the curve To Eidem Løvaas, who says that we're in the middle of a conversion: what is the conversion we're in the middle of? Norwegian oil and gas are in turn driving Norway forward. Click to close the curve So to all of this with taxes: no one has managed to lay down more jobs than today’s government, due to a very unpredictable charging policy – through both the sugar levy, the 350-kroner limit, the air passenger charge, etc. In fact, no one has made it more unpredictable for business than the right-wing parties through their budgetary negotiations. And if the wealth tax is as excellent as an instrument for Norwegian business – why don't they all remove it? Why is it a big deal that we're going to have 5 billion? kr more in taxes on wealth, as long as they do not remove the remaining ones? Where is the logic of that? It's totally absent. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1652	I'm not going to go into what's missing or not, but there's at least one thing that's important to point out: in the previous post from representative Terje Aasland, he made a claim that the Progress Party was against the EEA Agreement. Where did he get that? The Progress Party has said that some parts of this agreement should be considered, i.e. individual elements, but the EEA Agreement is the one that regulates our relationship with the EU. The Progress Party is against the EU. There is no contradiction with the EEA Agreement, but some things can be improved. Click to close the curve So a couple of things that have been up -- related to what's going on with raw materials and the fishing industry, the fishing industry. It's quite obvious that I have to repeat some of my moments, even after Aasland's posts. We want a varied fishing fleet all over the country, i.e. We want the smallest boats, the medium-sized coastal fishing boat, the small coastal fishing boat, the large coastal fishing boat, the ring-not boat, the trawler – we all need to put in place safe access throughout the year to our industry. Click to close the curve We need SkattenFUNN, so that the industry can adapt, and so that it can invest – and ensure that it develops the right machines to be competitive towards the rest of the world in terms of production. We need research and development to ensure that we take the maximum and optimal yield from the resources that we're channelling into the ocean. We need to fight fishing crime, so that fish don't go to play, that we get the fish we're going to, so that we can export it, and also make sure it becomes human food – and that there are no criminals running away with this. We need access to the resources, that is. – as I said – we need the fleet, but we also need an industry around that is the support of being able to increase value creation. All of these things I've been into. And we need stable framework conditions. Click to close the curve When the representative of Aasland points out the importance of building industry out there, the right tool is actually not to increase taxes and taxes, so that you will not be able to make the investments that are absolutely necessary to be competitive towards countries that have a completely different cost of their labour force than what we have. Click to close the curve I also want to make sure that there will be a message for the Storting to spring, linked to the Eidesen Committee. I repeat here my invitation to just try to get a cooperation, because I think we need the greatest possible majority in order to have a long-term perspective on quotas and quota changes. So I repeat from this speaker my invitation to just conversations about how we can put in place long-term and good arrangements that are forward-looking. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1665	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1671	A brief remark to the representative Eidem Løvaas, who denounced the proposal of the Centre Party to maintain coal production at Svalbard by mentioning it as a bad climate action: if one assumes that extracting coal is bad for the climate, it means that producing oil is bad for the climate. It's such an approach that we don't usually have in Norway. Of course, it is the use that is crucial. Click to close the curve So I just want to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Business Committee for the debate. I think I have the whole committee with me when I say to the Transport Committee that we hope he is brief. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1678	I want to, since the representative Pollestad was involved in the operational review for 2017 and suddenly believe that it is because of the government's policy that things are going a little worse now, to include some facts about what is at stake. Click to close the curve It has been three very good years, and then some conditions have made it tougher in 2017. Some of it's a little difficult for this room to take responsibility for, because when it comes to the weather, there's little we can adopt away from. Weather and climate come regardless of what you decide in this room. However, it is important to ensure that agriculture is strengthened and able to meet the climate challenges. That's why we're also spending a lot of money on research and development. We've traveled a lot around and seen that it's very good that happens. I think it's important to bring it with me. Click to close the curve Yes, in some areas it has become overproduction. Of course, the industry also has a responsibility to be involved and to contribute to balance. We also feel that the industry is involved. There are positive instruments to re-establish production, but there have also been areas where under-production has been in place for a long time. Click to close the curve I think it's okay to say that if you look at the differences in the state budget options, it's good under 1 pst. between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and what is understood on one side or the other about the situation. Click to close the curve I feel that there are some who are like Ludvik with his concerns, and are really responsible. I'd rather be a little more like Solan, because I think he has a little more positive approach to the world and sees the spaces of opportunity. I now see an industry that is positive, that wants something, that works ahead, and that has, of course, seen that there have been challenges. We have now done so, both by introducing an additional drying package, and by taking responsibility, because the forecasts now indicate that we have to pay even more for the damage that many farmers experienced this summer. But I still feel that there is a lot of optimism out there, and traveling around and seeing the Bond's market and everything they're selling now is fantastic. It shows that there's a positive there, and then you don't have to be tired or negative because someone's been nice. In agriculture, they've been nice. They've streamlined, they've converted, and some of them are incredibly good at increasing production. That's when you get some challenges, but then you have to take those challenges and work to do something about it. As Minister of Agriculture and Food, I am concerned that we should do that, precisely because we are going to have an agriculture throughout the country, which is still forward-looking, and which is going to meet the challenges and make sure that we produce a lot of fantastic food for the Norwegian population and consumers in the future. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1691	Of course, State Council Hoksrud is right in saying that in a government budget, there is a lot to agree on, but that is where you separate teams, which is what's interesting – and what that policy leads to. Click to close the curve In his area, there is no doubt that the policy pursued by the current government, supported by the Christian People's Party, has contributed to the overproduction problems now seen in a number of Norwegian agricultural productions. It is not only because there is a high level of production in some areas of Norway, but also because, on the Norwegian side, imports of some of the same products from abroad are constantly increasing. So you get an over-import from abroad through agreements that the government is agreeing to negotiate and conclude with other countries. Click to close the curve Some of the last of the previous red-green government did, was to strengthen customs protection for some kinds of meat, for strong protests from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in this hall. One of the first things the government that is now sitting did after it took over power was to go to the EU and try to reverse that decision. Luckily, this was not achieved, but other negotiations have taken place, among others. through the Article 19 negotiations, which took place from October of this year, opened up a strong increase in imports of beef from abroad into Norway, and ongoing negotiations are under way through EFTA third country agreements to increase imports of meat from other regions of the world, inter alia. from Brazil and Argentina. Click to close the curve It is incredibly important to also look at how policies are conducted, both nationally and in relation to international agreements of which Norway is part. Click to close the curve Finally, as I was also in my previous post, and the situation of Norwegian agriculture this year has arisen due to drought: in view of this situation, it should be important at least to make sure that some funds are put aside as a start to the stockpiling of cereal seed and food grain in Norway. When you see the challenges you have had with failing crops and having enough seeds for the next season, it is an important illustration of why it is important to facilitate both the stockpiling of food grain and the strengthening of agricultural research, so that we can become more self-sufficient, among other things. feed grain in Norway, that we can become more self-sufficient in several areas and contribute through a stronger agriculture for the future in Norway. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1704	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 3. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1720	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Click to close the curve Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to four lines with replies from the main figures of the parties and eight lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Click to close the curve – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1735	Let me first of all thank the Committee for a good cooperation in the preparation of the budget position and in the work on the transport budget for 2019. Click to close the curve The government parties and the Christian People's Party have once again come to an agreement on a government budget and, in the previous state budgets, transport is an important field of activity and a budget winner. We've increased the traffic budget by 75 pst. since we took over the government offices. It is part of a long-term strategy in which infrastructure is one of the major pillars of the welfare society, and which helps people to live and live throughout the country. Click to close the curve When we travel around Norway and visit businesses, we see what a unique country we live in. No matter where we go, we find exciting companies that like to be in the top of the world within their niches. These companies and all those working there need good roads, access to port and maritime transport and not least proximity to airport – and in some parts of the country access to rail. A good infrastructure connects the parts of the country and is essential for getting goods and persons safely inside and out of the country. In addition, the infrastructure is necessary for us to have good areas of everyday life, where it is good to live and where it is attractive to do business. Click to close the curve In the national transport plan, we've said that we're going to spend over 1000 billion. NOK in infrastructure over the next 12 years, and we are in the process of stepping up. However, it is not enough to spend more money. If we are to be able to achieve the ambitious objectives of the NTP, we need to think again, while having strict cost control. Click to close the curve The government parties and the Christian People's Party have jointly carried out several reforms, both on the road and on the road. After eight years of reform-drying under the red-green government, it was necessary to make some drastic grips. Click to close the curve New Weier AS represents a completely new model for planning, construction and operation/maintenance of major road sections. Already now we can see that New Veger has been a success. The company plans and builds important road projects faster, at a lower cost and with greater societal benefits. The company expects to realise the projects in the portfolio at a cost of about 20 pst. lower than the initial cost estimate. That means that we free resources for other important communication initiatives. Click to close the curve We are also in the process of implementing a rail reform, a reform that gives a clearer division of responsibilities, while at the same time bringing together responsibility for the development and operation and maintenance of the infrastructure in one company. We have great faith that Bane NOR will provide good returns through increased cost control and more efficient planning and development of important railway projects. The aim must, of course, be to increase punctuality and regularity of the investments to be made in the future and to provide better services for both freight and passenger transport. Click to close the curve The first section has been put up for tender in 2018 and will start up during 2019. This means that the British company Go-Ahead is going to operate the Southern Railway over the next ten years. The consequence is that the state saves almost 3 billion dollars. kr in the purchase of passenger train services over the next 10 years, compared to the current level. The other players in the competition also managed to reduce their costs, and it shows that competition strengthens the players and produces results. Click to close the curve Equally important is the fact that competition also contributes to raising the level of ambition. The main basis of competition has not necessarily been lower costs but more customers. Through better integration with other transport solutions and increased customer adaptation, the aim is for more people to take the train. It should be applauded by all those concerned that more people are travelling by rail. Click to close the curve The focus is often on new projects, and it is understandable, but it is at least equally important to maintain and renew the infrastructure we have. The retarded both on the road and on the track is large. Therefore, it has been absolutely necessary to increase the amounts for this purpose. 2019 is the fifth year in a row we reduce the maintenance run on the national road. When we're done next year, we've reduced the maintenance run by 7 billion. kr, and we have more than doubled the budget for the maintenance and renewal of the railway. We're going to continue this investment in the years that are coming, just because it's absolutely necessary, and because it's a good investment. Click to close the curve The transport sector is facing a technological revolution. The digitisation of our society gives us whole new opportunities to create an even better offer for the inhabitants. At the same time, Norway has good clean energy supply, combined with a well-developed electricity distribution network. So we have very good assumptions to show the way in the green shift in the transport sector. Click to close the curve We have committed ourselves to great emission reductions in the Paris Agreement. A large part of these must come in the transport sector, and we are on the right track. Emissions from the transport sector are now falling, not least thanks to new technologies such as electric cars and the use of biofuels. Click to close the curve Electric car policy is a success and has resulted in as much as a third of the new car sales in 2018 will be electric cars. At the same time, we see the development of new electric cars with a longer range and at a more moderate price. It is essential for this market to continue to grow. Click to close the curve Also in the maritime sector there is a lot of excitement: testing autonomous ships, using battery electrical solutions and testing hydrogen. Holidays in Norway are being electrified as a result of an offensive purchasing policy of both the State and the county council and grants through Enova – and not least as a result of a highly resilient maritime industry providing good products. Over the next few years, as much as 70 ferries will be low- or zero-emission ferries, and we are only in the start-up phase of a transition that will create many exciting jobs in Norway. Click to close the curve A separate grant scheme for more efficient and environmentally friendly ports will be put in place in 2019. This is a follow-up to the national transport plan and will, together with other schemes, for example: under Enova – be a good tool in the development of modern ports. Click to close the curve New technology is important, but at the same time we have to get more people to go, ride bicycles or use collective solutions. The potential is greater in urban areas, so we follow up with urban growth agreements and 50 pst. financing of large collective projects. In the state budget for 2019, it is set at 3.7 billion. NOK to the metropolitan areas, and we will continue to follow the commitments of 50 pst. co-financing in the future budgets – in line with what is in the national transport plan. Click to close the curve New technologies will help to make collective solutions more attractive and emission-free and make even more people choose buses, lanes or completely new solutions that we have not yet seen. Click to close the curve The digitisation of society provides opportunities to adapt supply more to individual needs and tailor seamless travel. An example is the Columbus and the GetMeg app they have introduced. Instead of having fixed bus routes, each can order via an app, and the technology adapts the bus routes to the needs of customers. The feedback is that customers are getting more satisfied, and Columbus is cutting costs. It is precisely such solutions that can make public transport more attractive, both in urban and district areas. Then it'll also be a real alternative for people. Click to close the curve Norway has a great starting point for developing the transport sector of the future. Good broadband and mobile coverage is an important prerequisite for doing so. There has been a broad consensus in Norway that this expansion will mainly take place through a commercial model. The result has been investment of the order of 8 to 10 billion. kr per year and a mobile and broadband coverage at the top of the world. Click to close the curve In addition, it is a dedicated broadband grant for areas that are not commercially viable. In the State budget for 2019, this subsidy amounts to nearly 200 million. kr, an increase of 50 million. kr from 2018. The debate on digital infrastructure tends to deal with this grant. It is then important to see the whole, the large investments made by the commercial operators, and at the same time to be clear that the municipalities themselves have to make an effort to reduce the costs of providing both municipal infrastructure and implementing the management regulations, or the excavation regulation, as it is also called. Click to close the curve The Transport Budget for 2019 is the sixth state budget adopted in the context of an agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. These four batches have raised the transport budgets by 75 p.m., implemented important reforms and put in place an ambitious national transport plan. This is an offensive budget, both to meet the need for initial investment, to maintain and renew existing infrastructure and to facilitate new technologies and necessary conversion. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1787	It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1792	The setting shows that 350 million have been set aside. kr for the protection of funds for fishing ports and fairways. These funds have been properly produced from the position as if it were 350 million. SEK in 2018 and 350 million. kr for 2019. But that oversale was not correct, cf. the Minister for Transport's answer to budgetary questions. There's nothing more than 350 million. for the purpose of the advance-shooting, neither in the draft budget nor in the examination of the Committee's position. Today there is a loose proposal on the table from the majority, proposal No. 16 to set aside 550 million. NOK 200 million for this measure. kr more. What has happened after the configuration meeting in the committee? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1797	This is a good system which was established in the context of previous State budget treatment, and which we are pleased that we have achieved, simply because it contributes to the fact that more, especially the fishing ports, which are of particular nutritional importance, now have the opportunity to advance and get ahead of what is initially in the national transport plan. We haven't tried to represent this as anything other than what it is. The budget proposal states that the appropriations for 2018 were continued in 2019, and that in view of the fact that they would be able to pay the commitment to the applications received in 2018. Then, after further discussion with the Christian People's Party, we have come to the conclusion that it is expedient to increase that frame by another 200 million. kr. This makes the system even a little bit better, and then even more people will be able to benefit from an already good system. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1802	I'll give the committee leader credit for what I thought was a very good post. He pointed to many of the challenges in Transport Norway that I think there is a great deal of excitement about. Many of the issues we share. I would also like to pay tribute to the government for what they are doing to bring down the maintenance seat suspension on the road – that's what they say. But I think the committee leader forgot to talk about the maintenance run on the railway, and I think he even had some speaking time left, so it was probably a mere forget. My question to the chairman of the committee is: with the budget that is likely to be adopted tonight, will the maintenance of the railways be increased or reduced to the next year? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1807	First of all, I must be allowed to thank you for all the roses. I guess there might have been a little 'but' after a comma, and it did. I have to take that with me. Click to close the curve I think it's important to have both a short-term and a long-term perspective when we're going to create a transport budget and discuss transport challenges. When it comes to the aftermath on the railway, I said something about the fact that we have more than doubled the commitment to the maintenance and renewal of the railway. We're proud of that, but we see that we still have a good step left to go before we can bring down the track. The budget proposal shows that the slowdown will increase in 2019 with the appropriations in place. In the same way, we've started an escalation. We have a significant increase. We spend more money than ever for this purpose, and we will continue to escalate it, simply because it will be important in a long-term perspective to bring down that maintenance kit and get the necessary measures. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1814	The party regrets the fact that the government has for several years made the commuting worse. In our alternative budget, we want to straighten out some of the tax austerity that the government has introduced. Many are already struggling with a long journey – a load that is often exacerbated by inadequate collective provision and queues on the access roads to the large urban areas. The centre party therefore proposes tax relief to day commuters by giving all day commuters an enhanced advantage in filling out the declaration. All those travelling on the job must be able to draw 1,60 kroner per kilometre with the arrangement of the Centre Party. Furthermore, the Central Party proposes to remove the scheme that anyone who has more than NOK 50000 on work trips should only have 76 ears per kilometre for these. Click to close the curve In addition, we want to build stops: 8 000 new parking spaces at the collective nodal point. We're proposing to set off 20 million. kr to it. Click to close the curve How will the Right, as part of the majority cooperation, facilitate commuting in this year's state budget? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1823	I think that the most important thing, both for commuters and for all of us who live around and commute to work, is to make sure that we have a good infrastructure, so that we can find out both safely and efficiently. The centre party is often very selective about both what they want to ask questions about, and what they want to focus on. I think we have to look at the whole thing. Over the past five years, we have reduced the tax burden by 25 billion. kr. A very large proportion of it benefits most people. This means that the commuters have also received significant tax relief under this government and as a result have improved their overall situation. Click to close the curve You can always discuss the details of commuting and other things, but I think it's important for people to see the whole, both in the tax system and in the total bet that is now taking place, to facilitate good infrastructure, lower taxes and better conditions for most people. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1831	There is probably something predictable in this reply: SV's view of this very unwise choice regarding the free E39 is quite well known. For the local representative, it is quite obvious that he is a defender of the Moorax, to about 38 billion. kr, on which they are trying to push the price down. Only the maintenance costs of this underwater and environmentally hostile adventure, as I would call it, are about 8 million. kr per kilometre of motorway per year – perhaps 120 to 130 million. kr in maintenance every single year. Click to close the curve Why in the world wouldn't the Right and the Government agree to include autonomous, frequent zero-emission ferries in the planning of the fjord crossings when SV's proposal was up for discussion here in Stortingen a short time ago? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1838	The most important thing about ferry-free E39 is to build strong housing and labour market regions around the entire Western world, in this case simply because we see that we need to rebuild the incredible value creation, the important businesses and the active business that are in these regions. That means that we have to build regions together in terms of shorter travel time. We do not solve this by replacing manual ferries with autonomous ferries, but by building fixed connections. This is why this is important for the Right, the Government and the majority of the population, because we have said in the National Transport Plan that we want to implement this. Click to close the curve I understand that the representative from SV would like to talk about projects in the West, while he would like to talk about projects in the East. It's a policy that doesn't cover the whole country. I think it's a policy that SV might need to change, and that they should rather be involved in helping to bet across Norway. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1845	The cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1850	In these days, the United Nations Climate Change Summit in Katowice, Poland, is taking place. If we're going to save the world, if we're going to be able to limit the temperature increase on Earth, the climate emissions have to go down. And since the transport sector is a major source of emissions, emissions from the sector have to go down. Transport policy must be much more marked than in the past, and it must also have a much greater impact on transport budgets. Click to close the curve When examining the national transport plan last year, the Workers' Party had four main actions: development of public transport in and around our major cities digitalisation and broadband development; Racial protection and tunnel protection coasts and ports; We followed up on these efforts in the 2018 budget, and we are following these efforts up in the 2019 budget. Click to close the curve The Workers' Party strengthens its alternative transport budget in 2019 by 1.6 billion. in addition to the proposed government in the State budget. And because the budget agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party weakens the budget for transport by 75 million. kr, the difference between the budget of the Labour Party and the budget of the civil majority is even greater. Click to close the curve Now there is no point in itself to give as much money as possible for the purpose of transportation – the most important thing is how we spend the money. But at the same time, if we are to meet our international obligations, and if we are to achieve our ambitious objectives from the national transport plan – yes, it costs money. It's the Labour Party willing to use, and we can do that because in our alternative budget line, we have a different priority than the majority. It is more important to build the country than to give even more in tax cuts to them with the very fattest wallets. Click to close the curve The Labour Party has a policy for the whole country – for big cities and rural areas, for small towns and coastal communities, for districts and for central struts. Click to close the curve We follow up our policy that the state should contribute more strongly to the development of public transport in and around our major cities. Collective transport, other than rail, is the responsibility of counties. But everyone sees that in the big collective investment in and around our big cities, the state must contribute. Click to close the curve The government believes the government should contribute 50 pst. of these investments. The Workers' Party believes that the State should contribute 70 pst. Now these are important projects such as T-Bahn extensions, Fornebubanen and the Rome Railway in Oslo and Akershus, the Urban Railway in Bergen, the Bus Road on the North Jären and the Metrobus project in Trondheim. This is what we are following up in our budget. Click to close the curve We want to bet more on racial protection, or scaffolding, as it is now called, and strengthen the budget for it – both riksväkering and riksväkering. We also significantly strengthen the road safety work, and believe that Safety Traffic should have had a higher allocation from Stortinget. Now, if we are to see zero seriously injured and killed in traffic, we need to put even more emphasis on people in traffic – what we would like to call attitude-creating work. Click to close the curve One of the most incomprehensible aspects of the government’s budget proposal is cut in the allocations for broadband expansion – a large cut. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party was given some correction, but still what is used for broadband development grants is far too little. If we are to succeed in digitisation – as the committee leader spoke about in his speech – we will succeed in new digital solutions, with businesses and jobs across the country, broadband and digital infrastructure must be expanded. Most of it is built out of commercial players, and it is good, but the whole country must be digitised, the community must also contribute. It's old-fashioned not to want to bet enough on broadband expansion. The Workers' Party believes that the State should contribute €0.5 billion. kr per year in broadband. Click to close the curve Norway is a coastal and maritime nation. Then it must also be invested in ports and fairways. It's far too puzzled, what the government proposes in donations to the Coastal Agency. Yes, the entire investment budget of the Swedish Coastal Agency is no larger than a medium-sized national road budget – and in addition, the government cuts the appropriations from 2018 to 2019. It is totally incomprehensible when we know the need for investment in fairways and fishing ports. The Labour Party believes that much more effort is needed for coastal and port purposes. Click to close the curve Luckily, the Christian People's Party has recently received a small increase in the pot for the shooting of fishing ports and fairways by 200 million. NOK, so that the sum is 550 million. kr in 2019. It's a step in the right direction. The working party, the centre party and the SV believe that the sum for shooting should have been 700 million. kr, cf. Our proposal No. 5 in the setting. If our proposal does not get a majority, the Labour Party will vote in a subsidiary way for proposal No. 16, presented by Hans Fredrik Gruvan. Click to close the curve This government has abdicated in railway policy. Now it is no longer the Stortinget and the government that define the railway development plans in Norway. No, it's the Directorate of Railways that does. In the summer, the Directorate established an action programme for the railways – partly in contravention of Storting’s objectives in the national transport plan. Of course, I think first and foremost of the intercity expansion in the East. Click to close the curve The working party strengthens the railway budget, with more funds both for planning, investment and maintenance. The government boasts of a reduction in road maintenance, which we have just heard. That's very good. But the government barely mentions that with the budget of the bulk of the population, the maintenance of the railways will increase next year. Click to close the curve When we are informed in letters from the Minister for Transport that there are no funds for planning double tracks between Tønsberg and Larvik in the budget for 2019, it is worrying – and we have received numerous enquiries about this from all the intercity sections. This was also a review of the budget consultations in the Transport Committee in October. Click to close the curve The Labour Party has today proposed that we should now have a timetable for intercity development. Today, the government cannot respond to the completion of double tracks for Halden, Lillehammer, Skien and Henefoss. We can't have it like that. Railway development is a political issue – at least it is a political responsibility to set rail objectives. Now we have to get a timetable for when double tracks are completed to Fredrikstad, Hamar, Tønsberg, Hønefoss, Halden, Lillehammer and Skien respectively. Click to close the curve I started my post with the United Nations Climate Change Summit in Poland. If we are to achieve our emissions targets, the emissions from the transport sector have to go down. And if we're going to make it, we need more of the passenger transport and more of the freight on rails. Click to close the curve It's alarming, what's now happening with rail freight. In contravention of all political objectives and promises, freight transport by rail is now being reduced. Recently, the last freight train went to Raumaban. CargoNet, which is the NSB freight company and Norway's largest rail freight operator, is now cutting freight traffic across the country. CargoNet cuts the number of freight trains in a week, from 94 to 74. On the southern runway, nine trains – from 20 to 11 – were cut almost a half. On the Dovrebanen five trains are cut – from 20 a week to 15. And at Bergensbanen, four trains were cut – from 25 to 21. Also on the Nordlandsbanen the number of freight trains cut. Click to close the curve Why does this happen? And why is the government sitting passive and looking at this? Click to close the curve It has to be done – and it has to be done now. I know that the Minister for Transport assesses one and the other, but now it cannot be assessed any more. If nothing dramatic is happening now, we may not have freight traffic on the railway, except for the ore transport on Ofotbanen, in a few years. It's not supposed to happen. Click to close the curve The Workers' Party proposes, in its alternative budget, that an aid scheme be set up to provide more goods from road to rail. In the same way as the State uses funds to purchase passenger transport services by train, a means of freight transport by train should be used. This is what has been proposed both by the goods industry, by the trade union movement and by the environmental movement. Click to close the curve In the middle of this very serious situation for rail freight, the government is increasing rail charges – for both passenger and freight trains. The passenger trains receive this fee compensated by the State, but the freight trains do not. It's totally incomprehensible. If you want more goods on the railway, you really can't increase the fees. Click to close the curve Therefore, something has to be done in the short term. Firstly, increases in rail charges should be stopped. Secondly, freight trains should be compensated for the charges they now have to pay. And thirdly, there must be a support system to get more goods from road to rail. Click to close the curve And then I'd like to end up with the proposals No. 1 to 7 in the vote and the resolution of proposals Nos. 11–15. And if the President allows, I will also make an explanation of vote on other proposals. The Labour Party will vote subsidiaryly for proposal No. 16, presented by Hans Fredrik Gruvan. We will of course also vote in favour of proposal No. 17, on Kjevikvejen, also tabled by Gruvan, and we will vote in favour of the proposal No. 18 to 20, from SV. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1916	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Click to close the curve It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1923	I notice that in its alternative budget, the Workers' Party is largely financing its expenditure increases with taxes and taxes for people and for Norwegian jobs and Norwegian-owned enterprises. In addition, I believe that there have been some little unrealistic and perhaps some slight cuts within the transport sector. Click to close the curve One of these is cut into the interest compensation scheme for county municipalities of 264.5 million. kr for 2019. This means that the Workers' Party will withdraw this scheme with retroactive effect, and thus that the State will discharge its obligations towards the county councils. There is a mechanism that the Workers' Party was in the process of establishing, and there will be considerable uncertainty about both this and other financial instruments if the State is to be as unpredictable as the Workers' Party proposes here. Does the representative of Myrli see that this type of proposal is in the process of weakening confidence between state and county councils, and does he think it makes sense that the state is acting as unpredictable as the proposal of the Workers' Party makes? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1930	This is not unpredictable policy. If the place sees in the government budget for previous years, the Workers' Party has long since proposed to cut this scheme. Our budget for 2019 is a logical consequence of that. It was established, and there are arguments for the scheme, absolutely, but sum total we believe that this is a heavy-duty scheme. Instead, we believe that the economy of county councils needs to be strengthened and that county councils are to carry out these priorities themselves. That is why every year, including 2019, we have also strengthened the economy of the county municipalities. So we believe that these are priorities that the county councils themselves could do, if they had had increased economic space, which they would get with the Labour Party budget. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1935	In his article, Sverre Myrli started by saying that it was not a goal to spend as much money as possible. We've seen that. In the national transport plan, the Workers' Party put up 21 projects, road projects, thought to be expedient, and then to the first period. In 2018 it was not budgeted, nor in 2019, but it was said in the examination of the national transport plan that this would come back to them in the annual budgets. Click to close the curve The working party has been known as a management party. Therefore, you are somewhat surprised that there is no money for these projects in 2019. The Labour Party has also said that the major collective projects in the largest cities will be financed by 70 pst. the State share and that they would budget for it. In 2019, we need 113 million. kr to reach your goal. Does the Workers' Party, as a governing party, consider that it is all right to deal with figures and to deal with facts in a sensitive way? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1942	I certainly don't think the Workers' Party's alternative budget is a disadvantage. We're strengthening the transport budget by 1.6 billion. kr. Significantly more we want to use on infrastructure the next year. Click to close the curve Then I have to repeat what I have said many times: the list of projects from the national transport plan is projects that were part of the national transport plan in 2013 and that the current government and the current majority have been suspended or completely removed from the national transport plan in 2017. We strengthened the National Road Budget in the National Transport Plan, yes, but of course we did not have the money to finance all of those projects during the first planning period of the National Transport Plan. Nor have we ever promised that. But we had more money and pointed to projects as it was time to consider accelerating, as it says in the national transport plan. Click to close the curve The working party has bigger road budgets than the Progress Party in 2019 – more money for road investments and more money for road maintenance. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1951	I had hoped that the Workers' Party had had an even better approach to customer-adapted train offers. I see that in comments in the alternative state budget of the Workers' Party, we are talking against the 4th railway package. It may be, but in the case of this with the outsourcing of competition: I have to ask the representative Sverre Myrli: buses, aircraft, ferries and other boat operations are competitive today. What is so difficult that we also take the railway to the competitive edge? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1956	One would almost think there was an agreed game, because this is a question I would like to have. Click to close the curve As far as I know, we have never had the same system in either bus or air traffic that we have for the railway. The railway is an integrated system, a complex system, one of which is linked to the other. We just don't believe that it's the right medicine to split up, create new companies, businesses, directorates and what it's supposed to be, what's now happening under the current government. We believe the most important thing in the railway is to build more railways, build more modern double tracks. Experience from all countries shows that if you are to succeed in getting more people to take the train, you have to build more lines, not draw new business maps with more squares. We just don't agree, and we don't believe that the solution is to break up and powder the responsibility, as we see now. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1964	I see that the Labour Party writes in the budget setting that ‘the red-green investment on the railway has produced results’. At the same time, we remember what former railway director Enger said in 2010. She said that the railway could be faced with a breakdown if you did not take hold. Then the red-greens had fallen for five years. Now the non-socialist majority has been overthrown for five years. It's taken hold, there's increased appropriations, there's created a renewal of the railway, and there's more stakes on the railway than ever before. Despite this, the Labour Party in the budget position writes that what we are currently doing is ‘trying to systematically pulverise the political responsibility for railway development’. What does the Workers' Party mean? Will the party return to the situation we had in 2010, when, according to Director Enger, we could face a railway collapse? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1969	No, the Labour Party's policy is never to look backwards, the Labour Party looks forward, forward, forward. This is also the case in railway policy. What we mean by that comment is that the pace shift in Norwegian railway policy took place in 2005. Then there was a big bet on the railway. The railway investment budget was fivefold in a few years, and then, with national transport plans both in 2013 and 2017, the appropriations continue to rise further. There is a broad political consensus on that. Not least, the Workers' Party has taken a break for such a railway operation. Click to close the curve So it goes with the truth that in all state budgets, I believe, after 2013, the Workers' Party has been higher than the majority parties in the railway appropriations, as well as in 2019, where the Workers' Party is higher on both maintenance, investment and railway planning. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1976	The cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e1981	The state budget for 2019 is a positive reading, which once again is a budget win. This is because current government parties have understood the importance of safe and good careers to build the country together. To build the country together to secure and reduce travel time between cities, there is a need for a solid boost to both investment in new roads and good maintenance of the roads we already have. Click to close the curve When some of the opposition parties in their alternative budgets call for a dramatic reduction in road development appropriations, and others will reduce in important railway investments such as ERTMS, it is evidence that the Norwegian people should be happy that this government, together with the Christian People's Party, is in charge of transport policy, precisely because transport policy must be linked. Unfortunately, it doesn't on the red-green side. This means that we must have combined mobility across the country. Click to close the curve Today's government, together with the Christian People's Party, sees that it is important to invest in safe, good highways with the right standards, because it increases security and reduces travel time, which in turn reduces business costs, and not least that all those who make their daily travels can do so in a safer way. In addition, much remains to be done on rail, especially in the eastern part of the most populous regions, but also on other sections. It is particularly important to develop the ERTMS system in order to increase punctuality, improved safety and increased frequencies in addition to reduced travel time. In the budget, much of the effort will include planning and launching new investment projects, in particular InterCity in the East, Ringeriksbanen and the new Oslo Tunnel. Click to close the curve It is also important to facilitate aviation, so that there is no uncertainty about the commercial conditions currently in place. Today’s funding ensures that airports are maintained in the districts, be it in District Norway, where aeroplanes are the most important form of public transport, not to mention the non-state airports that are currently not covered by the Avinor system, such as Sandefjord Airport Torp, which is entirely dependent on today’s tax-free regime to survive as an aerodrome. Click to close the curve The effort to maintain the road network has increased sharply with this government. For the first time in several decades, the maintenance drivage on the national road network has been reduced. It also continues next year, with a decrease of 1.8 billion. kr. In particular, tunnel repair will be important next year. For 2019, renewable funds will also be allocated to a grant scheme for the repair of county roads and for the transport of timber, in order to remove more bottlenecks for the transport of timber, so that more parts of the road network can be put into service. This will be very cost-effective for business. Click to close the curve The transport budget for 2019 totals 73 billion. kr. With the Advance Party in government, compared to the red-green budget in 2013, the budget has had a growth of formidable 75 pst. Never before has it been so hard to maintain what we have, while building new and modern infrastructure. This is important not only for the Progress Party, but also for its citizens. Click to close the curve If we are to have good conditions for housing and labour markets throughout our long-term country, we need to be able to see that a diverse need for infrastructure is important, and not least right, in the different parts of the country. That's what I call facilitating combined mobility. In addition to the follow-up to projects in the NTP, the grants to Nye Veier AS, a road reform that has otherwise been opposed to all the red-green batches, despite the fact that the company with its allocated portfolio of approximately 550 km of motorway will build the finished start-up portfolio of only 12 years, not 20 years as suggested first. Because of its cost-effectiveness in projects, it will save society nearly 30 billion. kr. Click to close the curve This transport budget is probably a budget that shows why it is good for the country's inhabitants that it is today's government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, who will continue to govern the policy of transport in the country, especially when we see how fragile the alternatives are in the red-green camp. The country's drivers would get even less for an even more expensive money because you are against any reform that makes you get more transportation for the money, and not least you would get a tax shock when buying a car. Rarely have we seen such dramatic increases in the increase in the charge of new car purchases, as in their alternative state budgets – and that on ordinary family cars! This would have hit those who have the least, namely families with young children, who just need safe and safe cars, which are also more environmentally friendly than old cars. Click to close the curve The working party will increase the new car purchase fee by 1.9 billion. kr – a very common Mitsubishi Outlander would be 40,000 kroner more expensive – and SV has about 5 billion. NOK more in taxes on the purchase of new cars. The Greens have not dared to count on this, so far I have not come. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2002	It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2007	The advance party decided that the tolls should be removed. Now the argument has changed, and one talks about a toll percentage and local connection, for example. on the road project rv. 3/rev. 25, which is a OPS project, which has now reached 1.5 billion. kr cheaper than estimated, and that's good. The agreement here was a 40/60 distribution. The State budget states that the amount of tolls is fixed and that the State’s contribution is reduced by the total cost reduction. That means that the toll ratio is more than 85 pst. on the project. Does the representative realize that many feel led behind the light? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2012	We went to the elections in 2013 to remove the tolls, and we are primarily against tolls. As I said earlier in this room, last week at the latest, I think it is nice if the Workers' Party is now busy bringing down the toll percentage. I can't see they're trying the same thing themselves. It is nice that the Workers' Party sees that the toll they have had on the drivers has been unfair. I record that the Workers' Party has voted against the reduction of tolls for several years in a row in this Chamber. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2017	The central party recalls that in 2015 the government terminated the public transport subsidy scheme in the districts, the so-called KID scheme. In the period 2007-2015, the Ministry of Transport had allocated 154 million. kr to public transport services throughout the country. Click to close the curve The centre party points out that the scheme allowed the counties to test new models of public transport in scattered strata, for example: models where taxis are used to bring people to the bus/train. The government put a line on the project and made a rule and a guide describing how to achieve the most user-friendly and seamless public transport. The grant scheme makes the collective effort in districts more efficient and climate friendly, while at the same time improving travel opportunities for many in scattered areas. How will the Progress Party, as part of the civil majority, follow up further efforts on public transport services in rural areas? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2024	Rarely has a government granted so much money for public transport and stimulated so many to drive collectively. Rarely has a government, with the Progress Party at its head, made it easier to take public transport, and actually makes it cheaper. Even in this room, the prices of public transport outside the intercity area have been reduced in the longer journeys. It didn't happen before. And rarely has it been seen – or never before, in fact – that a government, with the Progress Party at its head, is adding up to its own app to make it easier to use public transport, for seamless transport and for how to take transport without manoeuvring in a looted landscape. I think the Center Party should rather pay tribute to this government, which facilitates increased public transport and does not make it more expensive and more difficult for people. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2029	I wish I had three lines in a row, because I really have three questions in a kind of quiz to this representative. Click to close the curve If the state budget is adopted, as it seems, I wonder if the representative knows how many miles new motorways are being built. Since I don't have any more lines, I'm going to give the answer myself: it's 10.5 miles, that's 105 kilometers. Click to close the curve So I ask, how many miles does the representative think it's going to be built? Since I don't have any more lines, I'm going to give myself the answer: 7.5 miles, that's a lot less, even cheaper than building walking and cycling routes. Click to close the curve And then the crown question: how many miles of pitfalls, e.g., if we're going to build a little bit more modest, on two or three-field roads? The answer is 2 kilometers. Click to close the And then the question is, is it allowed to say that this government doesn't care so much about the environment and the climate problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2042	I'm very happy to get that question. I think 104 kilometers of highway is exactly right, not 105. Click to close the curve This government has taken this very seriously. In fact, they have reduced new car charges so much that we are the world's best in the low-emission class, when new cars are sold in September. No countries – no countries in the world – are nearby. Click to close the curve Nor is there any government before us that has allocated as much money to what SV is now concerned about, walking and cycling routes. The problem is that the states have not managed to use them up, there have not been enough applications. There is enough money allocated when the counties are unable to use them up. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2052	I think the Stordalen got hurt to forget to answer the first question, from Leirtrø, about Rv. 3 and Rv. 25 in Hedmark, where the situation is that there was a cost distribution between the amount of tolls to be taken into account and the amount of government funding to be allocated to the project. So the cost goes down – and that’s very good – but then the government cuts the government’s share, while the amount of toll is as high as it used to be. Tolls become the same as before, and the toll share – which is now the new concept of the Progress Party – of the project as such is increasing dramatically. Could the Stordalen and the Progress Party explain why it's a good idea to do it this way on Rv. 3 and Rv. 25 in Hedmark? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2057	I deal with local negotiations and local decisions. Click to close the curve The Progress Party is concerned that the overall share of tolls should fall, and that is what it does with this government — in general it goes down. In some projects it lies a little bit above, in others a little below. Thanks to the Progress Party, it goes down and not up, as it would do with the Workers' Party. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2064	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2071	First of all, I would like to thank everyone for their good cooperation in the Committee. I think the chairman of the committee The place has done a good job of handling the budget work in the port. Click to close the curve The aim of the Centre Party is to provide Norway with the safest, most efficient and most environmentally friendly infrastructure in our part of the world. Our draft budget will ensure better implementation of the national transport plan throughout the country. – I would like to signal that the Central Party will vote in favour of the solution of the proposals promoted by the SV, the Labour Party and the Christian People’s Party, respectively, and we will vote in favour of proposal No. 16, from the Christian People's Party. I'm going to say it right away, so it's not going to be gone at the end. Click to close the curve We are concerned because the government does not take care of the whole of Norway. Roadways and racial protection are deprioritized. Governments will cut broadband development and coastal infrastructure funds. The centre party here proposes clear steps to ensure the development of a forward-looking infrastructure across the country. Click to close the curve The centre party will stress that new road solutions will initially become safer road solutions, and we will have a large-scale commitment to road development and collective solutions. It will give us safer everyday life and travel routes. Click to close the curve It is necessary to ensure better fulfilment of NTP in terms of investment in the national and county road network. A significant maturity has occurred over time on the county road network. Bad roads make the school road more stressful for the little ones than it needs to be. Poorer roads hinder the transport of fish, which is busy getting on the market, and we know that much of the value creation in this nation is at the end of a county road. Therefore, in 2018, the Centre promoted a proposal for a separate maintenance programme for the county road network in line with the recommendations of the trade unions. At that hearing many people came and called out a warning about the delay in maintaining the county roads. Unfortunately, the right-wing parties voted the County Road Programme into the Stortinget. Click to close the curve The centre party proposes an increase in the framework grant to the county councils, where 1 billion. kr is intended for increased maintenance of the county roads, including means to meet new requirements as a result of the tunnel safety regulation. One of the major weaknesses of government's transport policy is that it does not take the race challenge seriously. The danger of race is a scary reality for road users in many parts of the country. Fortunately there are postmans yet, but unfortunately there are some of them who are running with the window open on certain sections to listen to race. The Central Party proposes to increase the grant for racial protection on county roads by 100 million. kr. Click to close the curve A coherent good road network is important for road users, regardless of the level of administration on which they own the road on which they are travelling. A more liberal economy for municipalities and county municipalities means a strong strengthening of the capacity of the municipal sector to operate maintenance on municipal and county roads. The centre party therefore proposes 4.5 billion. kr more than the government of the municipalities and counties. Click to close the curve The central party also proposes an increase of 200 million in the grant for national road investment. in addition to the government's proposal. It makes it possible to supply some strategically important road sections that unfortunately the government has not followed up enough. In particular, it is important to organise the appropriations so that benefits can be derived from the large road construction and maintenance apparatus already deployed in many places. Click to close the curve I've got to point to an internship from the Senterpartie. We should have been on the note about the Eigerøy-brua. Click to close the curve The many trails carrying goods on Norwegian roads are a danger to road safety. This leads to high road wear and increased climate emissions. At a time when freight transport is expected to increase sharply, the Centre Party considers that a strong commitment to rail and sea freight will be strategically important. This could reduce the number of accidents, and Norway would be better able to achieve the objectives of emission reductions from the transport sector. Now the opposite happens. Goods go from track to road. In the autumn, NHO warned logistics and transport in an article in the Newspaper that Norway is at risk of becoming a country without freight traffic by rail. Click to close the curve There is a great need to increase the regularity of rail freight transport, in particular on the long transport routes. The Central Party proposes, in its alternative budget, to strengthen the deployment of the network by 270 million. kr. In this is the start of electrification of the Trønderbahn, planning new projects on the Dovrebanen and 100 million. kr for credit measures. The electrification of the Trønderbahnen comprises approximately 200 km of railway on the current line from Trondheim to Hell, then to Steinkjer and Storlien, the Meråkerbahnen, and Stavne-Leangenbanen. The government does not prioritise the launch of this project either in 2018 or 2019, but will continue to plan an already planned project. We want to start construction and propose a start-up grant of 150 million. kr for 2019. Click to close the curve In the case of the coast: the centre party will strengthen the expansion of ports and fairways in order to obtain more goods by sea. We are following up our alternative NTP proposal by proposing to increase the framework for port and fairway actions by 80 million. kr for 2019. This is 20 million. kr for start-up of the City Ship Tunnel. In the alternative budget, there are also proposals for funds for the ports of Andes and Sørvær. Click to close the curve We follow up the short sea shipping strategy by continuing the framework of the proposed freight transfer system. The development of fishing ports is essential for increased value creation based on fisheries resources and settlement throughout the country. We're increasing the subsidy item for fishing ports by 20 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. We're pointing out that the fleet that handles domestic freight by sea is old. In the bulk segment, the average age of the boats is high. This provides a basis for claiming that the replacement of this fleet to new-technology boats will result in significantly lower greenhouse gas emissions. To succeed in such a replacement, the industry needs profitability and long-term sustainability in order to build equity. The Central Party believes that the State, which is a large customer through various agencies, must use its purchasing power to ensure this. In addition, when granting concessions in the field of aquaculture, a part of the transport related to the industry may be required to use the maritime route instead of land transport. I would like to point out a proposal we have promoted together with the Workers' Party and SV: ‘The Government is asked to make adjustments to the back-up regime for the carriage of goods by road to sea in order to improve the benefits of domestic maritime transport by providing a ceiling on the amount of each application, and to reserve part of the rights to transport by Norwegian territorial waters.’ It's too bad that we have so little goods on the track and so little goods on the sea when a total landfill wants to transfer more goods from road to sea and track. Click to close the curve We believe that local air emissions need to be reduced and that this needs to be done by phasing in new technologies. We think it is important to continue the electric car benefits. We want a CO 2 fund for business transport by model from the NO x fund, so that investing in new technologies is also more profitable for business. The center party believes this is more targeted environmental measures than further switching tolls, which affect ordinary people who need the flexibility provided by the car to get their everyday lives together. Click to close the curve We also want to bet on access parking spaces, as the representative, Mr Fasteraune, mentioned in a reply. We see that in order to ensure the greatest living and working areas and that they work well, it is absolutely necessary to give priority to the needs of commuters in a completely different way from today. The aim must be to provide the central stops around the largest cities with 8 000 new parking spaces. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2116	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2123	ERTMS is a common European rail transport system, which is now being rolled out on Norway's routes. It will provide better capacity and profitability, not least for freight traffic. But the Central Party has in alternative budget cut 475 million. kr by reverting to normal progress in the implementation of this traffic system. The Nordlandsbanen and Ofotbanen in the representative's homeland Nordland need the most new signal system and are in line first. Then I ask: how many years will this proposal lead to the suspension of the introduction and the increased freight capacity, and does the proposal mean that the representative Mossleth and the Central Party believe that the rail system in the North and the rest of the country do not need to increase freight capacity properly yet? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2128	The representative of Finstad puts the search light on a very important factor. It is very important to put in place several crossing tracks along the Northern Railway. On the Nordlandsbahn, we have the greatest potential for getting more goods from road to rail. It's a very long stretch of over 700 kilometers. More crossing tracks and ERTMS will also allow for more take-offs on the Salt Pendulum. It's very important, so that we can get the money back in a better way than today and use it both ways. Click to close the curve The centre party wishes to welcome ERTMS, and we will stick to the normal progress plan for that. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2135	The road reform was adopted in its time against the Centerpartiet, Arbeiderpartiet and SV's votes. Toll reform and the creation of New Veier AS are part of the reform. Toll reform has as its starting point the need to reduce all over the country. The red-green government planned to spend 100 billion dollars. kr more in tolls in its then NTP. In other words, the centre party has fought for the toll packages they themselves are criticising. Click to close the curve Is the Central Party still of the opinion that the most important thing is to spend as much of the money provided by the State and its drivers as possible, or are they more positive to New Weier AS and lower toll rates in the projects? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2142	The centre party had a very high ambition for the Norwegian road network. We want road safety, efficient and very environmentally friendly transport in Norway. With regard to the NTP and the tolls, this government has largely fulfilled the red-green government's transport plan, but during the 2013 election, the Progress Party was very high and dark and promised zero tolls to its voters. They can't do that. The biggest lifting break comes from the Advance Party. The centre party hasn't said we're against tolls. We've never said that. We pointed out the double communication from the Progress Party in this matter. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2147	We in the Left must honestly admit that we are a little concerned about the environmental profile of the Senterpartiet when you start proposing lower diesel taxes. But I want to ask the representative Siv Mossleth about urban growth agreements, because I don't see much of them being talked about by the Center Party. It is clearly a good environmental measure, which the government is working very hard on. It means a zero growth target by facilitating conditions for less transport needs and a land policy for housing retention. Is there any good policy in the Central Party, and will you support the government's policy in this area? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2152	The centre party has not voted against these urban packages, but the centre party believes that we should have an environmentally friendly transition to new technology by providing purchasing benefits for electric cars and by establishing CO 2 funds for heavy transport, in the same way as the NO x fund, so that one can distort the charge. The centre party wants more public transport, including by providing relief in the charging system and discount schemes for express buses, so that more people can use them. We want to facilitate public transport into the big cities, with commuter parking spaces, which we've been talking about, around the biggest cities. But there is one thing that is quite clear: the centre party does not want all people to live in town – it must be possible to use a car and live in the districts as well. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2164	The central party writes in its budget setting that the party is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, in particular air pollution in major cities, and will continue the benefits of today’s electric car policy. At the same time, we record that the Senterpartiet is proposing reduced taxes on petrol and diesel. These are instruments that go in completely the opposite direction with a view to achieving our climate objectives. Is this an expression that you do not know what you want or where to go in the field of transport? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2169	The centre party is quite clear that we will go in an environmentally friendly direction. We are behind the emissions targets in the Paris agreement. But we do not think we can make everyday life too difficult for those who depend on the car, and who may not be in the queue first to buy an electric car. We want to maintain the electric car benefits. We want to make arrangements for commuting, so that people can stop the car and take a bus. We want municipalities to be able to set heavy-duty tyres themselves, so that they can adapt to the air pollution in their local environment. We understand that the level of particulate matter is high in e.g. Oslo. That's also why we were a little skeptical about giving relief in charging parking to the municipalities for the electric cars. It goes on suspended dust, and it goes on that there might be other things that are environmentally better in the largest cities. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2174	So the chord change is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2179	Today's debate should, of course, clarify the broad lines – what distinguishes the parties from the perspective of Norwegian transport policy, where we manage around 70 billion. kr. This is considerable sums. In my view, the dividing lines go along two axes. Click to close the curve One axis is how serious a look at the climate crisis – most importantly – just two months after the climate panel came up with its serious messages, the most serious ever, about what is needed to achieve the 1.5 degree target from Paris. Emissions must be halved in relation to the measures notified by countries. It is also the backbone of this debate. Click to close the curve The second axis is how one will use the transport years and the connecting points to develop the country, with residence, business, etc. Of course, these two points are very interconnected, but in this first post, I'll take the first point. Click to close the curve One third of the emissions come from the transport sector, and this will have to be taken seriously. If we don't do that, the parties place themselves on the wrong side, among those who don't focus on climate considerations. It's a real thing, but then the parties have to be quiet. Click to close the curve Many of the individual measures that this government has carried on from the previous government are good, such as electric car phase-in, full-speed river ferries into the coast, and urban growth agreements. The greatest difference between the batches is between the drivers and those that slow down this development, i.e. those who always find counter-arguments against the introduction of charges, stricter environmental requirements or more environmentally friendly modes of transport. Of course, among the last, we find the right parties, with the Progress Party in the driver's seat, but unfortunately also often the big parties in the opposition. I think that's gross. Let me do a couple of examples. Click to close the curve That trains are an environmentally friendly mode of transport, most people agree, and that four-field motorways and increased traffic are the opposite. Today, four-field motorways with a high speed limit are being built out as never before. We have our own company, New Veier AS, which is rigged to build it. Click to close the curve The big differences between the lots depend on who wants the railway to connect the parts of the country, and who thinks it's the highways to connect the parts of the country. The Government promotes proposals, and the Stortinget decides – over and over again – that motorways should be built first, then modern, two-track railway. At best, they are at the same time built on some sections, such as: E6 and the railway northwards towards Hamar and Ringeriksbanen, which are planned as a joint project with E16. Click to close the curve SV is against this and dares to give different priority. We're moving around 2 billion. kr from major motorway projects, national road projects, to the railway. The others say ‘yes, both parts, like highway first’. Another example: in their party speeches, they say yes to doing something about the delays in maintaining county roads and other district roads of between 50 and 70 billion. kr – and slip protection, middle parts, yellow middle stripe, walking and cycling routes, etc. They smile at the people behind the Fjordvegen Route 13 in the West, for example, when they're there, but in their budgets it's pretty empty. They just have the numbers in the parties, in the verbal. Click to close the curve At the same time, the same parties – all the big parties – are going in to spend billions further on the West for the adventure project, the ferry-free E39, to nearly 200 billion. kr only to the fjord crossings, and say no to our proposal, as mentioned before today, to have autonomous ferries in planning. Makan! They must have both – just like local politicians from the same big parties. It doesn't make sense. It's environmentally hostile, money waste and very little forward-looking. They simply can't get in both bag and bag. That's why the trail, the race protection and the other narrow roads are pretty much the same. Click to close the curve These parties, especially the government parties, do not take the climate noise seriously. They do not want to take enough action, and then the climate agreement also cracks down on emissions in 2020, in particular because of oil and transport policies, which contribute about one third each. We have to give priority, and then I don't have to frame up the SV's alternative budget. You can read that online. Click to close the curve In the end, a complete railway is the best instrument for building up the important infrastructure that our railway is – not hacking it up and fragmentation of responsibilities and coordination options, as the railway reform provides. I'll come back to that in the next article. Then I would also like to raise the famous matter of Go-Ahead. Click to close the curve I mentioned all the suggestions from SV in the setting and came back to the resolves. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2207	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Click to close the curve It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2214	SV wants to shut down the road company New Vegar. SV is strongly opposed to the development of main road projects on E18, E6 and E39. At the same time, SV is concerned about progress in the development plans of E134, formerly Rv. 23, Dagslett - Linnes - a four-field road project in Lier, Buskerud. So concerned was the SV representative Arne Nävra that in our written question he asked the Minister for Transport, where he asked for further progress in starting this project. SV is strongly opposed to major road constructions, we have listened to the Nävra article, and make dramatic cuts in the main road constructions in Norway in its draft budget. Would it not mean significant delays also for this four-field road project Dagslett-Linenes on E134? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2219	I'm glad of that question, as it's called. SV has never been against many of the bypasses needed around built-in strips. With regard to the way the representative refers to, E134, we're talking about about about 18 000 ÅDT. It's absurd through a residential area. Had you even scaled the road, so that we might have had two or three fields? But we don't have the opportunity, we don't have a hope of administrators below us to make such suggestions. We are not in that position that we can make such proposals, so we must either adopt the package that has been submitted by four-field road, or not. Then I say that that way must come, because they have been waiting for 20-25 years. Click to close the curve We have also been on bypasses elsewhere. We're on part of the road projects on the E6 up in the Gudbrand valley, and there are several other projects. You can probably find five-six-seven projects where you can say that I have a divergent view, but we have to have bypasses in many cases. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2226	As the representative Nävra said in his post, SV is not so very happy in Nye Veier. They want to perform dramatic cut in New Veier. Billion cutters are getting so big that they're going to have serious consequences. Launched projects across the country will be stopped. The result will be half-finished roads without any use, which will remain open as wounds in the cultural landscape – large mountains with gravel and stone and blasted tunnel holes, which will become historical monuments over SV's failed transport policy. The SV's green environmental profile becomes a false symbolism policy in this context. And what about legal and legal consequences and breach of contracts? Click to close the curve I wonder if the representative Nävra has understood the consequences of SV's proposal and how SVs should handle this. How much money is the State Road Service going to spend to clean up semi-finished projects, and how much money has SV spent on lawsuits and legal conflicts due to breach of contract? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2234	I have not calculated how much it costs to correct the misery of this government, but if we implement what is proposed, there is clearly a lot of planning going on, there are many projects that are not started. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2238	I came to think of the famous E18 West Corridor from Oslo, where the cost of securing and planning is now roughly doubled. I guess we've gotten up to 600 to 700 million. NOK, after the last message we received regarding the current year. There is already a lot of money for planning and things that are not started. But in the worst case, there will be some projects that then stand over a year. As you can see, we haven't taken all the money from New Veier AS. But I want to add that there are things with New Roads that we're going to learn from – actually quite a lot. I think the State Road Service has learned a lot from New Roads, but I just think we should have a political leadership that had introduced this into the state road system without New Roads AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2242	The left and the left have probably many similar objectives in terms of climate policy and transport industries, but one thing separates us, and that is business transport. The representative Arne Nävra says a lot about not needing a holiday-free route between Kristiansand and Trondheim. Has Arne Nävra then calculated what the social economy will be like when traffic is delayed? The left may be involved in discussing some of these bridge projects, but there must also be other highways behind the New Roads. They're counting a lot on the economy of society. Are the socio-economic accounts of these companies being denied? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2247	I'd like to say that we have the Truck Car Association on our team, and that's quite interesting. Many of the members of the Freight Car Association own their truck, and they run businesses. That means we have the same opinion about these fjord crossings. My point is, as I said to the local representative in a previous line change here, we're talking about having frequent, autonomous ferries to replace the tunnels. That means there won't be much delay. We are talking about flexible solutions, such as: Sintef is behind it. I find it quite pointless that we do not agree to plan and include it in the investigation if nothing else, instead of spending all the money we do on this adventure without a ferry E39. I am a little uncertain whether Gunne's representative agrees a little. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2253	SV is probably as interested in savings in infrastructure development as all of us are. Through the establishment of the company Nye Veier we have got a company that now seems to give the nation Norway savings of perhaps 20 pst. on the average of the projects under their responsibility to plan and expand. Although we are aware that SV will not build as much highway as we do, it has been interesting to record SV's resistance to a company that can save our country for tens of billions of dollars. Does the SV agree that it is important to take measures to build more reasonably and efficiently? And look afterwards: is it a bit bitter to think that SV voted against something that has become a success, and that saves the country for tens of billions of dollars, which could have been used for other good, important infrastructure measures? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2258	That's a good question, and I get the question very well. New roads are rigged to build large highways. I have no doubt that New Veier makes motorways cheaper than the State Road Administration did before. As I said, we have a lot to learn from New Veier AS, and I think it can also be transferred to other agencies, actually, among other things. the inclusion of entrepreneurs earlier in the planning process. But one should also remember that Nye Veier AS has had some advantages. They started with blank sheets and often have projects on virgin fields. The state's road system – I was about to say – has to work with a lot of repairs and work on previous tracks. So there are some differences here. I think there's a lot we're going to take with us and learn from Nye Veier, I totally agree with that. The problem is that when we are opposed to many of the major motorway projects, we also have to go to the company that is rigged to build the major motorway projects. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2263	The cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2268	There is now a strong trend towards investment in transport and communication in Norway. Click to close the curve First a little bit about the echonets. The last updated figures show that 82 pst. the population has access to broadband allowing large and fast data transmissions. The goal of the government parties is to reach 90 pst. during 2020. We need to achieve this through, for example: 200 million. kr in the public budget of the year, municipal priorities and, not least, simpler management regulations, which facilitate the roll-out of broadband services. Click to close the curve Now the new 5G mobile network technology comes too full, with faster and cheaper mobile usage. The size will grant 150 million. NOK to 5G development. Advanced mobile services should be given a boost in Norway in the coming years. Norway has often been capable of implementing new technologies, so we have an efficient business life, but within 5G there are several countries ahead of us. We have to do this again. Therefore, the left considers that State money use should stimulate players in the 5G market to invest in this technology in the future. Click to close the curve The left has great faith that the rail reform that is now being rolled out will lead to a more modernised and customer-adapted train offer. This will be a success within this NTP period. Stronger customer orientation and more efficient organisation will be the driving forces that make us succeed. New train sets and train departures have been acquired in recent years, increasing the attractiveness of the train. The maintenance is now much larger than in the past, a new signalling system to be introduced, double-track construction, renewal of platforms and station buildings and commuter adaptation with public transport to and from stations and also good car and bicycle parking conditions. Click to close the curve The Ringerix track shall now be planned and built. Today, 74 million passengers use a train offer per year and the number of passengers is increasing. The left considers that the target must be three-digit by the end of this NTP period. In a short time it must be such that no diesel train frequents Norwegian routes. Technological developments on fuel are formidable and hydrogen trains are now running in ordinary operation. Battery technology is also getting better and better, and distances of less than 100 km can now be frequented by battery trains without in-flight charging. The future is electric. Click to close the curve This brings me to success story number one with regard to the green shift: electric car policy. We put the world record in the purchase of electric cars every month, and now Norwegian car owners are waiting to buy more. If the car manufacturers understand their own best, they will now produce more electric cars and not least in the desired segment. I promise the suppliers that the sales figures will go to the weather. The size has a goal of selling only zero-emission passenger cars after 2025. The future is electric. Click to close the curve Battery buses are already running in Norway. In 2019, the number will be doubled. Oslo ordered 70 buses and Trondheim 35. The green shift has left the experimental stage and will now make a major contribution to the climate challenge and local pollution. The future is also electrical in bus operation. Click to close the curve But the grievances within transportation are perhaps the speedboats. Compared to the number of passengers and the length of the journey, these boats have enormous CO2 emissions and pollute locally. Fortunately, several municipalities have now started a work that can produce results. We're excited about what's going on in the summer of 2019, because then it looks like there might be something that revolutionizes this boat operation by getting spectacular boats that are good at sea at the same time, to take over, so that the green shift can also be within the fast boat segment. Click to close the curve Finally, I have to mention the form of transport that I like best: bicycle. It has been put up for good cycling, but there is also a great responsibility for the municipalities and county councils. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2289	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2296	The representative of the left is well-known with the Trondheim Environmental Package. After renegotiation of the package, the country's contribution shall be calculated net of VAT on the road. This means that both Trondelag and Rogaland receive far fewer funds than foreseen. They punish the regions that have chosen collectively on wheels instead of the track, extra, despite the fact that the state thus saves considerable money. It was not part of the assumption, and along with the lack of train effort, it becomes challenging to achieve climate targets in Trøndelag. How will the Left contribute to the achievement of our National Climate Goals? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2301	Now you're running urban growth agreements in Trondheim, so I haven't seen any results come out of it. I have a good hope that these negotiations will come out very well in terms of the inputs that the State can contribute to, and of course also the county council, the municipality and, not least – mainly! – the drivers, most of the urban package in Trondheim, have been paid by the users. So I look forward to a good solution and look forward to the results of the negotiations. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2306	The centre party is engaged in public transport. We pride ourselves on all the good projects, and we stand behind many of the projects proposed in the budget. But I guess there's real doubt about where in the country this is going to be prioritised. And to the Left and the Gunnes representative, 20 million. kr for this KID scheme is little money to find smart solutions where the A4 solutions are not available today. Does the representative Gunnes think that public transport in the districts is good and a tangible alternative for those who live there? I want to make it clear that urban growth agreements don't fit anywhere. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2311	No, I'm perfectly aware that urban growth agreements don't fit anywhere. You have to be creative and find good solutions, because you've been driving too many empty buses around the districts. Bringing people home and having a much simpler technological solution with ordering transport can be one of those forms, and I also want the county councils, which are responsible for their territory in terms of public transport, to be even more creative. I have good faith that together you can find good solutions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2316	Why can't you and I have any incentives from the county council in the pig-grown stripes that you and I describe, where we really agree on the actual situation? At Dovre, where I live, the railway was closed a weekend for various reasons. Express buses have been greatly reduced and there was no possibility of public transport from Dovre to Oslo. There was no way. Can you live and have it like this in the future? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2321	I don't think I'm going to go out to comment on an extraordinary situation that came up in, and how to solve it. I don't have a prerequisite for saying anything about that. But the left is very much to think a little bit new, because we can't have as bad a public transport as we sometimes have in the districts. Then you have to think completely new – without driving these big buses. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2327	It is not just me and SV who are concerned with the order in which motorways and railways are built when things often go parallel. I expect Gunne's representative to know the position in the County Municipality of Trøndelag and in Trondheim City. The railway to Steinkjer should have been built before the motorway? Does the representative agree and share the concerns of the county council and of the city that the motorway could be put at risk before a modern two-track railway to Steinkjer? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2332	The left has a clear premise as regards the bet on the Thrønderbahn, that it is to come before finishing the first section of the motorway, which is to start building now, and which is to be completed in 2024. Then we just get the man up – to say it like that – to get a good order on the Thrønderbanen. Click to close the curve The fact that the Trønderbahn is somewhat delayed in terms of start-up: of course, there have been expensive solutions that have not provided passengers with a better offer, i.e., hourly departures, while now looking at solutions with half-hour departures. That's when the railway can compete, because it has to be that the railway has to be faster, go more often and be cleaner than any other traffic. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2339	The cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2344	The population growth in our country is strong. If we do not dimension the transport system in line with the forecasts and our climate targets, the space is becoming too crowded, and the transport sector does not contribute enough to our achievement of our climate objectives. We need to develop the transport system by building new ones while taking care of what we have. That is why I am pleased that we have made a change of pace in our transport policy. We've gone from talk to action. We have five years behind us where transport policy is renewed and raised to a new level. The Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left have provided reforms, renewal, efficiency and not least more money. I am glad that we still have a majority that continues and reinforces the work being done. Click to close the curve Modernisation of the transport system is necessary to meet the road safety, capacity, environment and climate challenges. Technological developments combined with clear policy initiatives will contribute to innovation, better provision for the population and lower emissions. Modernisation is driven not only by politicians but by technological driving forces, and not least by people's desire for new solutions. There have never been as many zero-emission cars as they are now. Autonomous vehicles and ITS are key factors in the modernisation processes and new digital solutions provide the basis for innovation in combination with increased safety, better accessibility and lower emissions. One of the areas clearly identified as a central field for new technological solutions is the way in which tolls are required. Satellite road pricing is a flexible system where a mileage charge may be levied that varies with the vehicle’s contribution to noise, time loss, accidents, road wear and/or air pollution and with clearly positive environmental effects. Click to close the curve There are many individual things I could have drawn from the budget, but let me mention some of the things that have been important to the Christian People's Party, not only this year, but also for several years: More and more users are receiving the joy and benefit of the national extended TT scheme. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to give these very users who have special needs a better offer. That is why I am pleased with the impact of the Christian People's Party – along with the government parties – to extend the arrangement, with a doubling of previous years' increase, to 45 million. kr with effect from 1 July 2019. Now there are eight counties in this scheme, and maybe three-four new ones can be added through this extension. For visually impaired and wheelchair users, the national TT system is essential in order to be able to live a normal and active everyday life. Through the 2019 budget agreement, we are now taking a long step towards ensuring that the scheme can be national from the financial year 2020 onwards. Click to close the curve Broadband and effective ICT systems are important and central to citizens and businesses throughout the country. The government's cut in this area was disappointing. It was necessary to increase the allocation, and we are pleased that we have put in place 100 extra million to expand broadband through the budget agreement. Click to close the curve Investments to the railway sector will be strengthened in this budget. An operationally stable and high-capacity infrastructure and train equipment handling large transport flows is necessary to improve train provision. That is why it is good that we have made a solid commitment to and renewal of infrastructure and materials. Click to close the curve We are very pleased that New Weier meets expectations and that the costs on average are reduced by 20 pst. The fact that the rate of expansion makes it possible to build the company’s portfolio of 12 years rather than 20 years provides important savings that contribute to the realisation of other important transport projects in the years to come. Click to close the curve The Christian People's Party shall vote in favour of the committee's majority recommendations. We are voting against the minority proposals. I also refer to supplementary proposal No. 16, which I promote on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the government parties, and supplementary proposal No. 17, which I promote on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 16 increases the scope and possibilities for more important port projects to be carried out more quickly. I am therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party has agreed with the government parties to extend the 350 million-dollar framework. NOK to SEK 550 million. kr. Proposal No. 17 is about the Kjevik road, rv. 41, and how request decision No. 264 from the previous session shall be followed up. It is obvious that Storting's decision in this case has not been followed up so far. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2363	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Click to close the curve It opens for line chord shifts. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2370	The mine has been involved in many transport debates here on the house, and one of the repeats over several years is the handling of the submarine "U-864" outside Fedje in Hordaland. In the budget setting, the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the SV have proposed that the Storting should have a separate case on the submarine ‘U-864’, where one considers removing as much of the mercury load as possible before covering the submarine. I have registered that it has received great support from many locally, and also very many of the local representatives of the Christian People's Party believe it is not right to just go to cover the submarine. Click to close the curve So my question is, why won't the Christian People's Party have a case for the Storting on this very important question? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2383	The submarine outside of Fedje has a long history, as the representative Myrli reminds us. We think it is important that we now try to complete that matter in an environmentally sound way. There have been many investigations, many contributions have been made to the case. This is now proposed as a contribution that I believe we can put our trust in, and that can also solve the problem in an environmentally sound way. If, however, there are still technical possibilities, without further delay of the process, by examining whether one has the possibility of possibly taking out some of the substance that we are most concerned about, we do not exclude it, but then it can be done through a separate study, without having to be taken up again as a matter of its own. If it has to be done in another way, we will have to wait and perhaps get it back as a matter at a certain time. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2388	The representative of the Count closed his speech by stating that the Christian People's Party will vote against all the minority proposals in the vote. I believe the Christian People's Party did that last year, and I believe that Christian People's Party did that years before. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have, in the setting and in the hall today, promoted – in my opinion – many good suggestions. It's a proposal for goods on the rail, it's a proposal for the intercity expansion, and it's, as we just talked about, the submarine "U-864" outside of Fedje. Click to close the curve My question to Gruvan is: Is there really no proposal from the opposition – some year – that the Christian People's Party could support? Are all the proposals from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV so poor that the Christian People's Party cannot even consider supporting any of them? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2395	If there is any consolation, at least I can say that we have evaluated the proposals of the opposition. [[muttering in the hall]] It is clear that there is something sensible in the politics of all parties, even in what the Workers' Party proposes. In the proposals that are on the table today, we have chosen to conclude as I stated. At the same time, there are several of these things, for example. this with the progress of intercity, which we are concerned about, and there are also other issues, such as: this with more goods on the railway. We believe, however, that we have based our national transport plan on the progress of intercity, which requires a certain pace and level of investment, which we will follow up without having to have as our own case. We follow NTP here, and we assume that NTP should be used as a basis for progress, for example. in that case. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2405	I want to continue the dialogue on the environment with the representative of Gruvan. Express buses and air buses are a market-based public transport offer without government subsidies. Developments in this bus market have been negative. There were ten million travelers with express buses in 2007, and there have been down to six million in 2016. It is not good either for the environment or for traffic loads. This may be because the VAT on public transport has increased from 8 pst. until 12 p.m., and express buses are not compensated for any discounts to pensioners, disabled persons, children or school students. How can we facilitate more passengers on the express buses? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2411	The express buses play an important role in the provision of collective services, not least in terms of long distances. There has been liberalisation in terms of the express buses that I think could help make them an alternative for more, because one can drive longer distances without the same costs as one had before. It is at least one of the measures. Then we have to keep up with developments so that collective provision can also be strengthened in view of the type of transport, just as we also want the collective offer to be strengthened in terms of rail and other types of public transport. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2416	The Christian People's Party has been for the railway reform all along, as far as I have understood. It is in so far a straightforward case that they do not believe the same as SV, that there is important infrastructure that should be in public ownership, and driven by the public, but I had the impression that a premise for the reform was that passengers should be put in the centre – service, quality, punctuality. When we look at the statements that have been made in the last days and weeks – that quality was not actually given as much weight as price, even though the criteria for the tender were the opposite – does the representative Gruvan then agree that it is somewhat doubtful about the premise for the whole of the railway reform? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2421	I fully agree with Mr Nävra on the reasons for the rail reform. We were going to get more passengers on the train, we were going to get them faster, more punctual and at a higher frequency. I think that the basis and clearing work we have done to clarify responsibilities in the railway sector, we will reap the results of the next few years, when the structure itself is in place. Click to close the curve With regard to the tender on the Sørlandsbanen, I know no more about the conditions around it than the representative of Nävra does. I perceive, believe and assume – at least before I have received any further information – that they have followed the criteria set out. The companies that did not receive the tender have the opportunity to complain about the process if they believe this has been done in the wrong way. I record that none of these have done so. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2428	The cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2433	2019 will be another important year in the Norwegian transport sector. The reason for this is that work continues — building the country stronger, building regions closer together and short-lived travel times for Norwegian business, reducing costs and raising value creation. It promotes a sustainable welfare society for many. Click to close the curve The starting point for the 2019 budget year is very good, and I think that is all reason to rejoice that with the 2019 budget proposal, we continue with the important work that has been done since the 2013 downturn. In many ways, there is one before and one after the 2013 downturn in transport policy. Not only have we increased the licenses year by year, but not only has the power to reverse the focus that has been associated with maintenance, which has increased for decades after decades under the previous governments, but is now being reduced. Most importantly, we have managed to do so while we have managed to reform an entire sector, both through the establishment of a road carrier, and with it in many ways breaking the road development monopoly, and the establishment of the railway reform, which is now in many ways conducive to stronger competition on Norwegian railways, in order to get more satisfied passengers. Click to close the curve 2019 is another year in good years for the Norwegian transport sector, starting with the fact that we have several new tasks to solve. One of the things that I think we have so far heard little about in the discussion so far is that it focuses on what kind of tasks we are fundamentally going to solve. I am not very fascinated, or, to the extent impressed, by the overwhelm policy opposition, with the tax money brings to people, nor in the transport sector. Click to close the curve I'm busy with being able to solve the challenges we have in our infrastructure in a better way than before. We must make reforms. We must dare to have clear cost management, clear expectation that our underlying budgets will govern the economy well – that they will get more for the money, simply. This helps to solve more challenges that people experience in everyday life, because they work smarter and better. That is what this debate is about to a large extent, because in 2019 we set out to do so, while at the same time strengthening the promises – including for the railways. Click to close the curve In 1962 we finished building the Nordlandsbanen. Not since then, the railway licenses have been at a level that they are now. It's a formidable bet and a lift for the Norwegian railway. It's a little paradoxical for me to say it, which has a mother born in 1963, but it shows that there's not just one generation perspective in the current railway operation. That the opposition is trying to overwhelm it is fine. But I can assure the Storting that we're going to use the money wisely to solve the basic structural challenges we have in the Norwegian railways, in the years that come. Click to close the curve But it takes time, and it's expensive to build the Norwegian railway. Therefore, we also have to reduce the costs, both for development, for maintenance and for the purchase of trains. Because sometimes when you have that discussion, it sounds like driving trains in Norway is very profitable. This budget is a good proof that it isn't. We have to buy train services for over 4 billion. kr in 2019. This is what we do to help make the train a good solution for more people. Click to close the curve So we keep planning and building roads in this country, and when one hears the representative Nävra, that's a good proof of it. Because that's quite right: we're very pleased to be able to open over 100 km of new four-field highway next year. It is simply about increasing the potential for further growth and value creation in this country. It is basically about the extent to which we actually intend to implement what we have said – that the Norwegian economy needs more bones to stand on. Then we need more profitable businesses, and what this debate shows above all is that here is a civic aspect that, in order to make it both priority tax havens for business and infrastructure development – which is necessary. And then we have another side of Norwegian policy that increases taxes on business and takes away infrastructure projects. Click to close the curve I'm glad that the civil side has multiples in this house. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2452	It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2457	We were actually kind of set up when we heard about where the young mother had the Minister of Transport. But then we came to think that he's very young, so is he. Click to close the curve In my main post I talked about freight on the track. I was actually going to say that something drastic had to be done, but I think I said something dramatic had to be done. It may have been dramatic to say that, but the situation is at least serious for rail freight. On Thursday, Green Cargo drove the last freight train on the Raumaban in the states of the Minister of Transport. CargoNet, i.e. the freight company of the NSB and the largest rail freight operator in Norway, is now cutting the number of freight trains in the week from 94 to 74. I repeat: we have to be able to say that this is a very serious situation. My question is, what does the Minister for Transport do? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2464	This is a demanding situation. Some of the most important things that strengthen the competitiveness of rail freight are the money we spend to sustain the capacity of the infrastructure. It's worth noting when you're going to cooperate with a lot like this. proposes to cut investments in the ERTMS system, as an incentive to uptime and functionality. It's the most important thing you can do in the short term. In the longer term, there is a freight package of 18 billion in the national transport plan. kr. We have to look at how we can manage to use it so that he really helps us achieve our ambitions. What we're looking at first and foremost is that the measures on the longer sections of the train have great potential to achieve that. Click to close the curve There are demanding times for rail freight by day, and the government is working along several axes to contribute to solutions that do not cause the railways to lose additional competitiveness. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2471	I just have to make it clear that the Workers' Party does not want to cut the allocations for ERTMS at all. There are very important investments, and new technologies must also be in the railways, although there might have been some other parties the Minister of Transport thought about there. Click to close the curve But I have to say that I think it's a little disappointing, that the Minister of Transport is now coming along. Yes, I agree that freight packages are important, infrastructure measures, electrification, cross-rails, new terminals – this is absolutely very important. But this is necessarily a few years ahead. If we now listen to what the freight companies say, there are acute problems, something needs to be done now – not in two years, not in five years, not in ten years, something needs to be done in 2018 or at least in 2019. Click to close the curve When passenger trains pay train charges to Bane NOR, they receive these charges refunded by the State. This does not apply to freight trains, as far as I can see from the correspondence the Committee has had with the Minister of Transport. Why is there a difference between passenger trains and freight trains in terms of reimbursement of train charges? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2480	First of all, it's okay to start at the right end. No such path charge has been introduced for freight trains, so it is one too simple analysis, simply to blame for any change in the supply before the charge is introduced. Click to close the curve So I think there are several important steps in the 2019 budget. We're using $430 million. on measures designed to take the transport of goods, a series of concrete measures following the budget proposal adopted by the Stortinget today. At the top of it comes the commitment to operational and maintenance, which is decisive, and investment, for example. in ERTMS, which we have already been in. Click to close the curve So I recognize that the situation we're in now is demanding. This means that we need to have more in-depth analysis than a debt on a fee that is not yet introduced. That fee is an internal pricing, which allows a person to get money back if the infrastructure is not up. It gives care to the business community. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2489	I was going to ask the Council of State for a more comprehensive road development. We now see that there are sections along the E6 that can remain as dangerous bottlenecks, for example. in Grane. But a look-up in the Nett newspaper, where State Council Dale sits on a pub, drinks beer and talks out about the hatred of the Center Party, worries me. Politicians usually handle disagreements well, but when a Norwegian government council is filled with hatred and says he's going mad by a party, do I have only one question: does the government council need a hug? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2495	I have rarely refused it, if I have been offered it – at least not from ladies. I probably shouldn't say that, but that's the case. Click to close the curve Point 1: When I give an interview to the Web newspaper and I’m at the pub, I don’t drink beer. I can wait until after we have finished – it is clear. Click to close the curve Point 2: There's no single quote from me that I have anything. That the reporters angle it like this, they get their bill. Click to close the curve Point 3: I'm raised with a father who's a Center Party man. I don't yet agree with him. I had hoped he would learn with the years – there is nothing to suggest that either. But I'm quite clear on what was my birthright in that interview, namely that the changewill you see in the Central Party a day is sincere – I don't know if it's parliamentary right – the worst I know. I'm from an area where we know it's completely decisive. Transport policy is one of the areas where we see it, and I am therefore absolutely sure that my penance is also in the main hall. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2506	Okay, the Center Party is concerned with politics and matters, and I don't want to dwell on the Council of State's hate rhetoric anymore. Click to close the curve One of the proposals promoted by the Centre Party in 2018 was to have a comprehensive review of the air charges in order to strengthen the short-haul network. The situation of commercial routes on the short-distance network has deteriorated – according to Nordland Right, it has worsened in recent years. Air fares are too high for most people. The centre batch has also proposed the removal of the seating charge for passenger aeroplanes below 20 tonnes. But we do not reach when we want to stop this injustice, because the right parties are voting down our proposals, even though the Northland Right and the representatives of Finstad and Ebbesen are asking for changes. So the question is, Is NOK 8 the only government council has to come with to curb this injustice? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2513	Point 1: It is this big deal that has agreed to the airline passenger fee, not on a government proposal, but the government has followed up, in line with the Stortingen decision. Click to close the curve Point 2: Based on the wish to contribute to better internal pricing of charges, which would make Norwegian districts easy at the cost of longer flights, the government proposed to change the arrangements for air passenger charges. The plurality of the Stortinget ended. Click to close the curve This is really very easy for me. I stick to the decisions that are made. I'm busy strengthening the groundwork for air traffic, which is a central part of the collective provision in the districts. That's why we're also using 700 million in 2019. NOK to buy FOT routes. It's worth remembering that the only reason we have a company as a whole flying at 44 airports is because we're spending over 700 million dollars. NOK to buy the services. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2522	There were few visions to make it easier for people and business to use the short-range network. The short-range network is very important for business, especially in the districts. At the same time, the short-haul network is probably the first area where we get electric planes. That is why it is so important to maintain these offers. Click to close the curve The government parties participated in the introduction of the fare and have also helped to increase VAT, VAT, from 8 p.m. to 12 pst. So I think it's a disclaimer not to have visions to change the injustice that exists between the bermuda short tourist and the business that needs the short-haul network locally. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2529	I have experienced criticism for many things in Stortinget, but never because I have adhered to the question I received when I answered. Click to close the curve So I got a question about NOK 8 was a tax rate we could give, and then I got a criticism that I haven't answered visionally about what to do to improve the flight supply in the district. If I had been asked about that, I would have answered that question. And I can do that. Click to close the curve I mean basically that the air supply in the district that is currently operated by Onyøe, through mainly the purchase for over 700 million. kr on the FOT route network, is a decisive offer for many districts of Norway. That's the collective service we have. It has to be developed further, both through new technology, which means that we have renewed our aircraft, because we have companies that keep their contract obligations to a greater extent than what we've had on some of the FOT routes this year, and not least by continuing to renew ourselves, and looking at how, in sum, we can give passengers a better supply. Click to close the curve The store has agreed to an airline passenger fee. I'm also going to take that into account. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2540	The President would like to appeal to the representative to characterise the statements of the Council of State in this row as 'hatretoriqué' – even if it was said in a pub where it was not busy – enough does not belong entirely at home in this room. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2545	The Council of State is talking about the opposition having an over-the-counter policy. I don't want to be part of it, I think, because I use much the same framework as the government. I'm just moving funds and prioritizing differently. Click to close the curve The party trap of the Council of State, the climate policy figure of the Progress Party Gisle Meininger Saudland, said to Dagbladet today – when he was on his way to the climate meeting in Poland, incredible enough – that electric car buyers have to pay VAT as soon as possible, and that this money should go to new road construction. Isn't it a little strange when he was on his way to Katowice to discuss climate issues? Do the Councils agree with the assessments of their common sense? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2552	I have not seen that, and I have initially not intended to make a decision on it. But it is to a very small extent the road that pollutes – it is the cars that run on him. We've assumed that we're going to have an electric car policy that will enable more people to use and buy electric car well during this government period. I still believe that this is the current policy, and I can assure the Storting about it. Click to close the curve I think that the basic point is an important one that we also need to address to SV to a greater extent, because when SV brings out its resistance to building new traffic-safe, efficient roads in Norway, it sometimes turns out that it is the road itself that is the problem. It's almost never. It's the pollution from the car park, and with this government it goes down massively, for example. because we dare to change the car tax policy. SV will cooperate with the Central Party, as far as I can see, and one can only wonder what that statistics would have looked like if it had been established. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2559	Thank you for your reply to the Council of State. In the absence of time, I will just jump over quickly to warm up a little bit around the matter with Go-Ahead. Click to close the curve Is the Council of State still certain that one in the course of the tendering procedure with Package South on the railway has followed laws and regulations, and that the processing has been reliable – in the light of all the new information that has emerged, not least in the evening post, in the last days? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2566	I will take this into account, and I have notified the Storting that I will come back with a thorough examination of it during the next week. I'll have time to go into more detail than I do in a short reply. But I'm assuming that the supply process that we have has been based on the criteria set out in the offer. I believe that the Railway Directorate, which has been offered and offered, has made assessments of them in line with it and selected a supplier. On the basis of this, SJ AB has complained at the first instance of the Railway Directorate, who has rejected the complaint, but one has not chosen from any of the actors who have been in the bidding round and beyond, either to complain to the Railway Directorate or to the KOFA or to bring the case before the courts. With the knowledge that I now have, there's every reason to base it, and I'll come back to this in the statement I'm going to have in the next week. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2571	In reply to the previous line from me, the Minister of Transport said that no rail charges were levied from goods. I'm a little surprised, because that's what the committee has been asking questions about in the context of the new phase of the 2018 budget, Prop. 17 S for 2018-2019, to be discussed by the Committee, and to be debated in the Stortinget next Tuesday. The Committee asked questions about this and received a reply on Friday from the Minister for Transport. There is an answer to question 4 from the Committee. There, the Minister of Transport writes that by the end of October 2018, about 37 billion were required. NOK in road charges from freight traffic. Click to close the curve My question is: are charges levied from freight traffic, or are they not? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2579	Now I have just gone to a prestigious team, because I thought I had steel control on everything I was doing. Now things indicate that I have our upresis in my answer. We've definitely not demanded 37 billion. NOK in freight charges, as the representative now claims. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2584	Millions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2589	I have reason to believe that there was initially no charge that was now due – and that was my answer to the previous question – for the volume of goods to lose competitiveness on the track, compared to what we have had in, for example. the road sector. I can come back to it in a later article. But that's my starting point for that answer, and if I have our upresis in it, or in the worst case, have not been accurate at all, I naturally ask why. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2594	The cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2599	I was also fascinated when I heard the mother of the Minister of Transport being born. I thought it would make me almost able to be his grandmother, and then I want to contribute with some experience from a long life and with good advice from a long life in politics, to which I hope he listens. Click to close the curve We spend a lot of money on transportation in this country. It is increasing in most areas, but – and here comes the good advice and almost a ‘measurable’ index finger – in terms of coastal activity and the sea and what we are going to live on in the future, there are ever reductions and down priorities. Click to close the curve The working party will bet on the coast. We believe that Norway, as a port, needs to develop its forts and develop infrastructure for maritime activities. Click to close the curve The government's draft budget gives the Coastal Agency a real fall of 0.2 percentage points. Unfortunately, the planning of fishing ports is no longer taking place, as this is to be transferred to the counties. There are many fishing ports that are waiting and that face an uncertain future with regard to future financing. We are all concerned about funding when this is going to the county councils. Click to close the curve The working party will allocate a total of 177.5 million. In addition to the proposal in the budget proposal for ports and fairways, we have coverage for everything. Such a commitment would keep pace with the development of fishing ports and strengthen the economic development of the coast. Click to close the curve In the treatment of the 2018 State Budget, a mechanism for the advance of funds to ports and fairways of up to 350 million was adopted. kr, and the same for 2019. The working party believes that there is uncertainty as to whether there is 350 million. DKK in total, or 700 million. Total kr – as some people make it. Click to close the curve The Minister for Transport has clarified this in letters on budgetary matters, where it appears that the total amount for 2018 and 2019 is 350 million. kr. If you're going to sell something twice, it must be a good idea that the sum is also double. The amount of application for this screening scheme clearly shows a great need and that the government does not give sufficient priority to these tasks. It has also been discovered by the Christian People's Party, when they present proposals today to increase this to 200 million. NOK extra, which is good and absolutely necessary. They were just going to take even more in, that's 200 million. They would have been at the same amount as the Working Party, with 700 million kroner. kr. But we have said that we support the proposal subsidiaryly. And we're happy with what we think is good because it's necessary. Click to close the curve In addition, the working party will devote more resources to the development of fishing ports. We want 20 million. kr to Andene fishing port, 25 million. kr to Kjøllefjord and Bømlo fishing port and 30 million respectively. kr for the planning of the City Tunnel and a general reinforcement of the line, of 15 mill. kr. Those of us who have moved on the State Sea in not too well, know that it is a dangerous piece of sea. The start-up of the City Tunnel could contribute to increasing the safety of those who travel on the sea in this area. Click to close the curve Subsidies to municipal fishing ports, i.e. the smaller ones, are an important element in increasing the rate of development of smaller municipal fishing facilities. The working party will strengthen the important infrastructure work around the municipalities by 50 million. kr. Click to close the curve The size has decided that more goods will be transferred from road to sea. This is scandalously not followed up by the government, and the Riksrevision has strongly criticised the government for the lack of follow-up to the Storting decision. Whereas it is necessary to draw up accurate incentive schemes which can contribute to the achievement of the objective but which do not distort competition; We in the Workers' Party believe that it must be taken into account in order to achieve the stated goal of Stortingen, and have strengthened this item by 22.6 million. kr in our alternative budget, so the total budget would be 100 million. kr. Click to close the curve There was a budgetary settlement with the Christian People's Party this year too. The Labour Party is, to put it mildly, amazed at the government's lack of ability and willingness to invest in coastal and port measures initially and notes that a weak budget for the Coastal Works is initially further weakened by the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2624	Much has happened in the transport sector in recent years. We see major changes in road, rail, public transport and electronic communications in particular. Technological developments have made us communicate in a completely different way now than just a few years ago. The screen and keyboard have a pen and paper cover. Electronic communications, including: through social platforms, allowing information to flow in seconds. This implies a need for Post conversion, which reports that the decline in mail quantity is expected to increase further – and faster – over the years to come. Electronic communications and the Internet are becoming increasingly important factors for business, for administration and not least for people most. Solutions in the ecosystem sector will affect how health care, education and work processes are organised in the future. This provides citizens and businesses in Norway with many new opportunities, but also some new and difficult challenges. Digital developments make us vulnerable to unwanted events in a different way than before. The government is therefore adding up to increasing its efforts at ICT security. Click to close the curve Furthermore, there is considerable activity and changes in the construction sector. It smells newly created asphalt over the whole country. The 2019 budget totals 73 billion. to improve roads, more efficient railways and better collective solutions in order to create a simpler everyday life for most people and business. The permissions of the railway operation in 2019 are e.g. in excess of 25 billion. kr. That's about 2 billion. kr more than in 2018 – and soon twice as much as the Stoltenberg government allowed in 2013. Click to close the curve So when the Workers' Party writes in its comments that they meet a 'passive government' in these areas, it's not possible to take them seriously. In fact, since 2013, the transport budget has increased by 75 pst. Norway is experiencing a government that, after five years in position, still has the will to increase priorities and maintain historical activity on the road and on the road. At the same time, the government finds room for incentive schemes for green conversion in the sector and extensive support for public transport in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in urban areas. Public transport in metropolitan areas is more than fivefold since 2013, when the red-green government ruled the country. Click to close the curve Many go well, but increase in costs can span bones under this historic investment. Therefore, we need to do more than allow money. We need to reform to keep costs down and build faster. The government is ahead of schedule and requires a change in public transport modes to ensure that we have more roads and paths for the money. It is demonstrated by the implementation of necessary reforms such as road reform and rail reform. Click to close the curve Transport policy is the most powerful means of creating growth and development in the whole country. Through the construction of infrastructure, we link cities and built closer together in strong work and construction regions. It reduces the distance between people and the south so that goods and services arrive faster. Click to close the curve A few days ago, the SSB produced new figures on population and area in densely populated areas. The numbers show that Stor-Oslo has crossed a million inhabitants for the first time, so for the first time in history Norway is now a million cities. The number also shows that 36 pst. of the inhabitants of Norway now live in a town with more than 100000 inhabitants. The growth of cities has implications for transport policy. For this reason, the government is investing heavily in schemes that support urban areas with important tasks in order to address their increased transport needs for the future. The government provides more long-term priorities and holistic drug use. For 2019, the government of 3.7 billion. to urban environment agreements and urban growth agreements. These agreements are among the most important tools for achieving more people's collective travel, cycling and walking in the largest cities. Urban growth agreements have already been concluded with the four major urban areas, and the government facilitates the rapid start of negotiations in the five smaller urban areas after the necessary local policy decisions have been taken. Click to close the curve This government provides transport policy that takes care of needs both in districts and in urban areas. That is a good example of this budget: a transport budget for value creation in the whole country. We build cities and build closer together and make sure that there is a need for citizens who are at the heart of the development of transport policy. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2641	I've put on a red tie today. It's not to try to approach the opposition, but because we're approaching Christmas. It's a pleasure. Click to close the curve Since the Progress Party came into government, the transport budget has increased by a total of 75 pst. Traffic has been a clear budget win and is also in the 2019 budget. Click to close the curve Although the Progress Party is committed to building better and safer roads, we are also committed to providing better collective and train services. We have a government that manages to have two thoughts in our head at the same time, which understands that it's not either road or track, but that most people are different, and that we have different travel needs. Consequently, as politicians, we must take it into account, so that people can have the freedom to choose for themselves. Click to close the curve Fortunately, the opposition is not in government – that is why it is called opposition. Fortunately, the red-greens are not in government. If the Workers' Party were to run the country, along with SV, not to talk about it together with Red and Green, it would not have been possible to be a driver in Norway. For example, in SV's alternative budget, they cut. approx. 5 B.C.E. NOK on the road, and in addition the car-related charges increase by approx. 5 B.C.E. kr. With SV, the drivers would have gone all 10 billion. kr i minus in relation to the budget that the government is presenting and that we are going to adopt now. Click to close the curve It's sad to see how negative the outside left of the car and the drivers are. While today's government understands the importance of facilitating all road users, including drivers and cyclists, we unfortunately see the opposite of the Workers' Party, which allows its friends on the outside left to have free play. That's where the drivers are supposed to be pissed off to leave the car. Unfortunately, we see that in Oslo. It is disappointing that the Workers' Party, which is usually a responsible party capable of seeing the whole and able to have several thoughts in its head at the same time, is involved in such a hoist against the drivers. I have to say ‘normally’, because in Oslo one unfortunately sees that the Workers' Party allows the Greens and SV almost to get free ropes in its hate campaign against the car and the drivers, where it is only one goal, namely to remove as many cars as possible, without thinking about what kind of consequences it will have for the most people. Click to close the curve I remember that no one is driving a car for fun, and what we see in Oslo is an important reminder of why most people should be very satisfied and satisfied with and very happy that today's budget is presented by the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, and not by the red-green opposition. Click to close the curve In addition to wanting to make everyday life simpler and better for all road users, including drivers, we provide for more efficiency, reorganisation and competition to save public expenditure and tax revenue. Click to close the curve One of the greatest successes in the field of transport in terms of saving public expenditure and building as much road as possible is New Roads. They still point to new, good results. New roads are well under way with the expansion of their 55 miles. They cut 20 pst. of the costs and saves almost 30 billion. kr. Click to close the curve We see that New Roads works, we see that New Roads is a success. They are offensive, they are innovative, they are effective, and they build faster, better and cheaper, and we see that this also positively infects the State Road Service. Before we got into government, it was unfortunately common that projects on the transport side were more expensive than estimated. Now we see that projects are getting cheaper. That is what we see in the ordinary projects of the State Road Service, but especially in the case of OPS projects. We experience an attitude and a cultural change at the State Road Service that is much more offensive than what we used to see in the past. The state road service also has closer and earlier involvement of entrepreneurs and closer cooperation than we have been used to before. They set clear and clear targets and use offensive and positive rhetoric, such as that OPS is cheaper, better and faster – and on the right track with OPS. Click to close the curve The competition and the dynamics between these two state enterprises work. It's important, it's right, and it leads to better, safer and safer roads both faster and cheaper. Consequently, it is illogical that some parties want to cut in New Roads and even shut down the company, as SV wants. Click to close the curve When we see how many tens of billions we save because we have competition in the road sector, it also becomes double illogical that the opposition does not want competition either on the road or on the road. Because it's not just on the road we're saving billions; we're also doing it for the railway. The railway reform leads to better provision for travellers and large savings on the cost side. And it's not about any massive privatisation. It is the State that is to be held responsible through state companies. The only area where there will be competition – or so-called privatisation, as some might call it, if there are private companies that will win – is with regard to who will drive the trains. First out of competition was the Southern Railway, and we've seen that it saves society for billions. It's positive, and we look forward to continuing to put off more competition. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2666	Today we are dealing with a transport budget where the opposition has put in a number of suggestions for improvement. It has opposition parties, among others. made because, in our opinion, the government parties and the Christian People's Party have not prioritised in a way that benefits the whole country. Click to close the curve We're moving into an increasingly digitised future where autonomous cars are going to talk to each other and with traffic control measures along the way. We see a future in which IoT, the Internet of Things, will enable smart cities, smart businesses and smart homes to be developed in the form of well-being technologies and energy and traffic management systems. Click to close the curve In November, the emergency network and all communications fell on the Finnmark coast due to a line break on a fibre line. It's a scary scenario for many. All of this and much more requires a major expansion of broadband. According to the IT industry, the need for broadband development grants for non-commercial projects is between 400 million. NOK 500 million and 500 million. kr per year. The government's proposals are worth 99.8 million. kr, and even with the pre-negotiated contributions of the Christian People's Party, this is too little. Development has so far been based on some subsidies, while the market has developed where it is commercially profitable. The government does not take on the fact that what remains to be fully covered is becoming more expensive and more expensive to expand. Click to close the curve In April this year, we asked the Minister of Transport what the government would do to prevent important parts of Norway from staying in a digital darkness. In response, the Council of State states that ‘this government has taken important steps to improve broadband provision in Norway and, in particular, in the districts, and the digital ‘digital darkness’ has gradually disappeared in the last four years’. Click to close the curve Unfortunately, this government has a different definition of the word ‘district’ than what we have, because, according to the Workers' Party definition, it is a long way to go until the districts are enlarged. In the 2018 measurements from Nkom, for example, Hedmark, Uppland and Sogn and Fjordane have a coverage of 65 pst., while Oslo has a coverage of 98 pst. Therefore, the Workers' Party has had a much stronger investment in this field than the government in recent years: a total of 400.3 million. D more for distribution to the counties in our alternative budget in relation to the government's proposals, totaling 500 million. kr. Click to close the curve Buying domestic air routes is another important theme for District Norway. These routes are too collective trips to count in large parts of the country, which the minister was also in. The majority of the population has decided against, among other things: The Labour Party agrees that these purchases should be transferred to the new counties. In the context of the examination of this budget, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV propose to postpone this transfer to the County Municipalities until the Government's recently reduced aviation committee has given its decision, which will be delivered on 1 December 2019, and until the matter is brought before the Grand Duchy for consideration. The basis for this proposal is inter alia: something the government itself writes in the mandate of the sample. It says: ‘By virtue of the public service obligations regime, the State purchases an air route offer on routes that are not profitable on a commercial basis. [[FOT]] With the exception of the Bodø-Verøy helicopter route, Unkøe is the only supplier. The productivity Commission mentions the air transport market, specified as competition on the short-range network, as a competitive market.’» That is why we in the Labour Party believe that it would make sense to wait to transfer the purchase of air routes until this mandate has been completed, but unfortunately the majority do not agree. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2686	Effective road and rail solutions are important for taking the whole country into business and housing. The economy needs efficient transport corridors to bring the products to the market, and this is a prerequisite for creating well-functioning housing and labour market regions. The government's transport policy binds the country more closely. We build road and rail at a pace that never before, and we put on new technology. Good welfare services and competitiveness for business require both a modern infrastructure of high quality and efficient and secure transport solutions. At the same time, it is important to make it attractive to choose environmentally friendly modes of travel if we are to achieve the targets for greenhouse gas emission reductions. The Government proposes to increase the investment in public transport and pedestrian and cycle routes by about 45 pst. in 2019. The grant for large public transport projects is almost doubled in 2019, and the railway will receive 2 billion. kr more than in 2018. Click to close the curve The development of the intercity sections is important in order to ensure better capacity on our main sections of the road. One must note, however, that this investment is significantly more extensive than that on which the intercity bet was first adopted in Stortinget. The Ringerix Railway has come into being, in addition to the requirement for a high-traffic connection from Follobanen to the eastern line on the Eastfold Railway. In addition, there is a massive bet on the new ERTMS signal system. An example of the increased costs is the large investment on the Ringerix track. In the national transport plan 2014-2023, it was set at 1.5 billion. kr to Ringeriksbanen for planning and start-up in the period 2018-2021 and NOK zero to new E16. In the national transport plan 2018–2029, the cost has increased to 26 billion. kr for this joint project, of which 20 billion. kr to the railway. Click to close the curve A key action in climate policy is to increase the development of public transport in urban areas. Urban environment and urban growth agreements are intended to make collective provision stronger. Better flexibility in the route offer will allow more people to choose public transport for their daily journey. Increased capacity in the established urban transport system is also important. Public transport, pedestrian and cycle routes are increasing by about 45 pst. in the draft budget for 2019. This means that the competitiveness of public transport is improved. A total of more than $3.7 billion is allocated. kr for actions in the nine largest urban areas, an increase of close to 50 pst. from the national budget balance for 2018. Click to close the curve I don't stop wondering about the resistance of the Workers' Party and the Centre's party to climate policy measures that work – the plastic bag tax, which was not introduced because it might be premature, the air passenger fee, because it could lead to people flying less, the urban growth agreements, because it affects the drivers, and now it's a proposal to remove the benefit of taxis in the weight component of the one-off fee, because it can affect the taxi industry. All transport is subject to stricter environmental requirements, including public transport. There is no reason that taxis should be exempted from this. Much of the transport that is directed towards special groups is order transport and will be compensated by the orderer – such is the case when the zero-emission requirement leads to increased costs. Click to close the curve In the national transport plan 2018-2029, the objective is to take passenger transport growth in urban areas with public transport, bicycles and corridors. In urban growth agreements, this is an indispensable requirement. It's set at 66.4 billion. kr for urban growth agreements in the national transport plan 2018-2029. When the municipalities and county councils can present good, comprehensive plans for achieving the zero growth target, the state makes up with additional funds from this pot. The composition of urban growth agreements is the result of the negotiations. Therefore, there will not be one standard that will apply to all areas. Click to close the curve The municipalities are central to the green shift. It is in the municipalities that decisions are taken, in close proximity to the inhabitants, and it is in the municipalities that you can trade locally with global ring effects. All municipalities should have a climate strategy with concrete proposals on emissions reductions in the municipal elections in 2019. Concentrated development and high land use around nodes and along collective axes will reduce transport needs and improve the utilisation of current transport capacity. The low-emission study estimates that the reduction potential is 180 000 tonnes of CO 2 equivalent with zero growth in the nine largest urban areas. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2704	The Workers' Party will build regions together with road-safe infrastructure, and we need to solve the climate challenges. A large part of the climate cuts must take place in the transport sector. At the same time, we have challenges of feasibility. This means that car traffic has to go down, more have to travel collectively where possible, and the collective offer needs to be improved. We in the Workers' Party believe that the state must take greater responsibility and a greater share of the investment in the collective projects in the big cities where people live. That is why, in the National Transport Plan, we have proposed to spend 9.6 billion. kr more on the major cities of this NTP period. Click to close the curve More floods and races are challenging our road safety and our emergence. In order to ensure multiple roads, we have therefore also proposed 400 million. kr more for racial protection in this budget – half of them on county roads. Click to close the curve We also believe that the toll system is now completely out of control, and we want a fairer road pricing, where road users pay to use certain parts of the road network at certain times, where fuel type and emission levels can also be a price factor. Click to close the curve The better the road sector is organised, the more we get for the money. I suppose we can agree on that. The establishment of New Roads and the transfer of co-roads management mean that we need a new review of the organisation and responsibility of the road sector. Here it's happened a little bit. Click to close the curve In the action programme for the State Road Agency for 2018-2023, they write: ‘There is still a significant maintenance seat towing and there is insufficient funding to meet all maintenance needs over the six-year period. The planned tunnel improvements require considerable resources, therefore we cannot prevent the increase in maintenance set run for some other road objects.» [[...]] It is in stark contrast to what we hear from the pulpit today. Click to close the curve We're still concerned about bridge maintenance and not least about the state of the county roads. It doesn't help to say that the government prioritizes highways. It is the county framework that needs to be dimensioned in relation to the county tasks. Now the maturity increases by 2.4 billion. kr every year. That's a bad business policy. Click to close the curve Government parties like to compare their years of government with the eight red-green ones. Then I want to come up with some facts. Now we were told that the transport budget has increased by 70 pst. From 2005 to the 2014 draft budget, transport appropriations increased by about 90 pst. Almost all new road projects that were opened in 2014–2017 had started before the government change in 2013. The Progress Party and the Right have flagged transport high in its priorities. Now we see several road projects that have large cost exceedances, while the government already after two years in the NTP period is 16 billion. kr according to your own plan. It is understood that the realization of NTP and all projects is not possible during the period — in which case it will go beyond an incredible amount of other things. Click to close the curve New Roads have been given responsibility for four major road projects, but none of them have been completed, so it may be a little early to conclude whether or not one has managed to reduce the planning time. And if it is that New Roads are good, why doesn't the State Road Service get the same framework? It's still so that they have the largest portfolio of roads. So we don't know if it's going to be fairer, better or better for the money yet. What we know is that the National Audit Office's study of the government's efforts to reduce the planning time for large-scale commercial projects shows that there are still large gaps and no reduction. There are several other system errors that need to be corrected. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2728	The 2019 Transport Budget contributes to economic growth and a sustainable welfare society. The key prerequisites for creating sustainable welfare societies are good transport solutions, and the Right wants communities around the country with creativity and growth that create new jobs and well-being. The most important thing we can do for both city and country is to improve transport. It gives companies good conditions that increase attractiveness, and it provides the basis for housing both in Oslo, Mandal and Hammerfest. Click to close the curve I would also like to say that transport is the most important district policy. The result of the government's district policy can therefore be measured through 75 pst. increase in the transport budget since the entry of this government into 2013. As far as my part of the country is concerned, the share of North Norway – of a much larger transport budget in the same period – has increased from 9 pst. until 22 pst. North Norway has been a budget winner compared to the period of the previous, red-green, government. Click to close the curve A good society is a society that provides opportunities for everyone. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have together delivered the most ambitious national transport plan of the time. We're going to spend 1,000 billion. kr on transportation. Click to close the curve While the government and the cooperation parties are implementing the bet of time on transportation, we see, however, that there is total chaos on the red-green side. The alternative transport budgets of the Workers' Party, SV, Rødt, the Green Party and the Centre break in all directions. Today, for example, we are seeing. that the centre party is against what all the parties have spoken about today, namely to give priority to getting more goods onto the railway. There is the Senterpart against the new ERTMS signalling system. Click to close the curve But we in the right will continue to say yes to new ideas. We will say yes to better solutions that build city and country closer together. We will continue to reform and modernise where the opposition prefers to reverse. The Right and Government reduce emissions by making it cheap, easy and attractive to use zero-emission technologies, and now – as more have been mentioned earlier – more electric cars than diesel and petrol cars are being sold. We in the Right promised to get more out of each of the heads. Now New Roads are established, and that means about 30 billion. NOK in saved expenses that we can use for several roads. Click to close the curve Now everything is going so much better. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2744	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2749	The government's ambition for a large-scale, but also necessary, infrastructure expansion is followed up in the draft government budget for 2019. Since 2013, the transport budget has increased by 75 pst. Click to close the curve The Progress Party believes that good infrastructure and efficient transport solutions are necessary if people are to live and operate in our long-term country. New infrastructure is being built across the country, but it is also important to take care of what we already have. Arguing governments have allowed the maintenance session to grow year after year, but with this government the maintenance session has been reduced for the first time in several decades. Click to close the curve In my own home country, Northern Ireland, there is currently an extensive renewal of E6 Helgeland, and around the county there is asphalt as never before. It's almost so wrong that there's an annoying lot of roadwork, there's someone saying with a smile about their mouth. Click to close the curve The Government also takes seriously the maintenance of the county roads and facilitates the priority given to county municipalities to the maintenance of their roads, as the Government has done on the national roads. Northern Ireland has the largest maintenance seat of all counties. This is not due to insufficiently transferred resources, but to the wrong prioritisation of government politicians. And for those who had to cheat, their parties constitute the opposition in the Storting. Click to close the curve The government has focused on addressing infrastructure challenges as quickly as possible and on getting the most infrastructure out of the resources available to it. The creation of New Roads is just happening with a background in this focus. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV were against the creation of the company, which has been a success. The construction time is almost halved, and the cost reduction is tens of billions. The resistance they have must depend on the fact that they do not want to be exposed to their own transport policy. Looking at the time of construction and the cost of other projects handled by the State Road Administration, it is likely that time is overdue to extend the portfolio to Nye Veier AS. Click to close the curve What is particularly gratifying for the drivers is that the growth of road investment is in the form of state resources. We've actually reduced the toll in road projects from 40 pst. under the red-green government to 28 pst. under this Government. In fact, it's going the right way, and the Progress Party is making a difference for the drivers. Click to close the curve The government is facilitating more freight transport at sea. Following the National Transport Plan, the Government introduces a new testing scheme for grants for investments in efficient and environmentally friendly ports. A scheme is also in place to apply for grants for port cooperation. The purpose of the scheme is to support port cooperation that stimulates more transport of goods by sea. Click to close the curve The safety fee has been removed and the unloading scheme, which has been mainly user-funded, is now 86 million. financed by government appropriations, which is the right way to go. If we are to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, the tax burden on maritime transport needs to be further reduced so that it can be a real alternative to road transport. Click to close the curve For coastal purposes, priority is given to reducing the maintenance run on navigation facilities, as well as deepening of fairways and ports, so that we can meet the demands of ever larger ships for the promotion along our coast. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2770	The many trails carrying goods on Norwegian roads pose a risk to road safety, lead to heavy road wear and increased climate emissions. In order to achieve better conditions on the road, regularity needs to be increased, in particular on the long distances between parts of the country. The centre of the network will increase the bet on the network by 270 million. kr in the next year's state budget, so that we get started with the projects announced in the NTP and agreed by the Stortinget. Click to close the curve However, it is not the most important thing for freight traffic right now. On Thursday, the last freight train from Åndalsnes went as Green Cargo set the finish line for his activity at Raumabanen. It only happens two years after Cargolink gave up driving freight trains on the same route because of lack of profitability. When Green Cargo throws in the towel, it means about 6,600 more carloads on the E136 next year. It's not E136 dimensioned for today. CargoNet halves the number of freight trains on the southern runway for economic reasons. It means about 5,000 more trailers on the E18 next year. Click to close the curve At the same time as we debate actions back and forth in this room, goods are in the process of collapsing. Now it is literally a matter of not doing this from the load before starting to start a bet on goods that a total mass has set itself behind. I would quote what the majority, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in the Committee, are behind: ‘The majority indicate that it is an ambition to carry more of the goods from road to sea and rail. The railway has a special advantage in the competition for the transport of large volumes over longer distances. In particular, reliability and punctuality are important for freight transport in order to be competitive. Furthermore, there must be good capacity and the establishment of crossing tracks is important in this context. Most indicate that freight actions in all transport corridors on the network are a priority in the national transport plan 2018-2029.’ What do we see? A government that is unable to translate words into action. We in the Center Party are of the clear opinion that this is not about adding fresh money to the year's budget. There is already a significant investment on the railways in the state budget for 2019, over 6.2 billion. kr, so the space for action is there financially. This was also pointed out by several of the parties to the hearing prior to the budgetary procedure. Strength measures must be put in place. Click to close the curve There is room to find in the budget adopted. This is a message that Minister of Transport Jon Georg Dale has often heard from more people. There is also nothing new for us in the committee. We in the Center Party realize that this is a difficult situation, but now the Department has to show power of action and political leadership. The entire budget is covered by incentives to achieve concrete objectives. We in the Central Party are concerned about freight traffic. We do not see the contours of some concrete measures, and this will lead to a number of consequential errors, both for the environment, road safety and further railway deployment. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2786	Right across the street from where I live, the Trønderbahn goes. The track is over 100 years old, but it's pretty much the same, and it carries the trophies around every year. I do not think there is a single train section in Norway for which so many pieces of cake have been eaten, which has received as many promises of modernisation as the Trander Railway. Click to close the curve Because when the track is so old, it needs modernisation. Among other things, it is one of the few sections in Norway where diesel trains are still going, and it is not particularly modern. Click to close the curve Before the election last year, we could see several times the then government parties together with the Left and Christian People's Party eating pie piece after pie piece to celebrate that the electrification of the trombone would finally come. Well, we will write soon in 2019, and the electrification has not come much longer. Click to close the curve From Trønderbanen there is a run over Meråker and to Sweden. On the Swedish side of the border, they have the electrification ready. They are just waiting for the Norwegian government parties to complete the pie pissing and get to work. Click to close the curve Actually, the electrification of the Trønderbanen Norwegian climate policy is in a nutshell. Where the Swedes are active and cut emissions, the Norwegian government is full of self-righteousness and leans back. The result is that the average expression just emits half of what the averagenorthman does. Click to close the curve For many years SV has spent money on their budgets to electrify the Trønderbanen, and we have still not eaten one single piece of cake. We're going to do that on the day the track electrifies. Then the Left Party, the Christian Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party will get a piece of cake from us, too, if they are not already served. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2801	I'm not going to talk about tolls and the broken promises of the Progress Party in that way. It is known and clear through a number of votes here in Stortinget, where the Progress Party is now voting for one toll project after another. Click to close the curve What is very surprising is that government parties will not support an increase in government participation in major urban collective projects. Unfortunately, it is only here to note that the environmental profile of the Left does not keep water – or that the Left simply sold away its perpetrators in order to be in government. We have cities in Eastfold that could get substantial help to their collective development if the share of the state went up, as the Workers' Party suggests, but it's just to notice that the government won't contribute to faster, better and cheaper public transport development for the inhabitants of Eastfold. Click to close the curve So to the railway, there's a lot to talk about, but just focus on page 37 of the setting. The connection of the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway to the new Folloban on Ski is mentioned. Such connection has been promised and has almost been guaranteed to take place, while new sections from Ski to Oslo are being used. This has been a major concern for the inhabitants of the inner east fold. There has been long and circumstantial cross-political cooperation in the inner Eastfold in order to achieve this. It would have been useful and good if the state council here and now could clear up all doubts – and just confirm that this connection is being completed, as promised. Click to close the curve So to intercity – or rather to the lack of intercity planning and development: before the 2013 elections, the Right and Advance Party were very high on the track in Eastfold and spent a lot of time telling that if only the Advance Party and the Right got power, there would be a turn on matters. They thought that the expansion and planning of intercity through Eastfold went too slowly, and that if you got the power, you'd have to fix it much faster. They were supposed to speed it up by two to three years. Click to close the curve But they didn't keep the promises. The rail roles of the Progress Party and the Right cracked when the light came on them – and the reality. Now there are delays for several years until Halden, as the Right Party and the Advance Party promise. The inhabitants of Østfold got a real click from the Progress Party and the Right in this case. Instead of prioritizing intercity planning and development in Eastfold, the Right Party and the Advance Party have set aside billions in getting the Norwegian railway up and privatised. This is what railway policy priorities in Norway are like at the moment. It's sad to look at. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2814	I really want to challenge the Council of States to join in and show up from their smart side, because I assume that on a good day that kind of thing is also intact. It's a shame when the state acts neither sensibly nor smartly and at the same time shows that one doesn't see the enormous need to develop a little extra when the possibilities are there – in connection with the Filefjell project. It's a very important project from Eye in Vang to Borlaug, but it's a shame that the 3 km before one comes to Eye, from Turtnes, can't be expanded now, when it's actually 50 million. kr available in the Filefjell project. Click to close the curve Therefore, it is very clever that the Workers' Party proposes that this money be spent on the 3 km. Then it simply has to be defined as part of the File Mountain project. As I'm saying, it's very important that we get the extension across Philly, but there's also a great need to expand the 3 km I now mention, for many reasons. The road authorities have the plans clear, the municipality has the control plans ready, so it is really just driving on. But it's really not the state that's not smart. It's the big crowd that's not smart, that doesn't see the need and make up for all those who use this way – big and small, business, kids going to school, etc. – and ensure that this is done. We'll probably never do it cheaper than what we can do now, and the money's there. Click to close the curve So once again, will the Council of State Dale join in and be smart? Nothing has been decided yet. That call goes to the bulk of the population in general – and I live in hope. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2823	In the meantime, the next speaker is Tellef Inge Mørland – then it's Mona Berger. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2828	Transportation is something that engages in Agder, for transportation is about more than just road, train or bus. But know-how is more than just a know-how: it trades, among other things. on living conditions, business life, housing and health through improved road safety. In Agder, there has been very good cross-political work for the development of E18, E39 and Rv. 9, and not least also for a connection between the Sørlandsbanen and Vestfoldbanen. Before the elections, the government parties and the Christian People's Party set up and promised a connection before 2035. However, an assumption is that the intercity development will be put in place. Now the answers from the Christian People's Party and the government are quite unclear when it can happen. In that case, there is bad news for the Sørlandsbanen – or the South train, as we might call it now. Click to close the curve Since we have now received a new Minister of Transport, it may also be worth recalling that the previous Minister of Transport in January said that the entire route between Oslo and Stavanger would be completed by 2027, with four roads. In that case, it would have been very good. However, when the new Minister for Transport asks questions about the development, the deadlines are slightly unclear – unfortunately. Click to close the curve Yellow stripe to the Hovden by 2023 there has been a broad cross-political agreement, also in my part of the country. Unfortunately, the strip wears to keep its schedule, and in the proposal for the state budget there was no money for any new meter of yellow stripe up against Hovden. The working party was therefore early ready that we would start working on the next section on Rv. 9 through Setesdal, Besteland–Helle, in 2019, subject to approved regulatory plan and local funding, which I would like to thank the Workers' Party's fraction in the Transport Committee for. Click to close the curve I am therefore pleased that we now have an overall committee that has stood behind a note that makes this development possible. But I have a little heartache: should it be necessary that one must fight every year for the further progress on rv. 9, because the government has failed to follow up on its draft budget? The size has previously said that a complete and efficient development will be achieved, and this is precisely about overall and cost-effective development. But then it's also about the fact that good infrastructure is crucial, whether it's broadband or road, so that people can live in the whole country – and that's something the Workers' Party is very concerned about. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2839	There will be two posts close to each other from me, but it seems to be in place to pull up the women's share on the platform in this debate. Click to close the curve In Norway today, the government is not at the forefront of climate policy; it is the municipalities and the counties. Nowhere is it clearer than in the transport policy. The government has a target of halving the sector’s emissions by 2030. It requires a huge conversion. Around the country, we've started. The coastal regions are now undertaking a ferry revolution. Hordaland has invested heavily in river ferries and reduced the emissions of ferries by 90 pst. Click to close the curve In my home state, Tøndelag, we're going to get a zero-emission speedboat from Trondheim to Kristiansund and from Trondheim to Vanvikan. In urban policy, cities are at the forefront. Trondheim, Bergen and Oslo have ambitious goals of reducing the number of cars on the roads. To succeed, we have invested massively in public transport and at the same time made it less attractive to drive a car. The result is that over millions more travel collectively, and fewer need the car for work or for delivery in kindergarten. Click to close the curve While the rest of the country is going ahead, the government is following. They extend the four-field motorway after the four-field motorway towards the big cities: we have ferry-free E39 towards Bergen, E18 out of Oslo and four-field towards Trondheim. There is scandalous policy, an enormous waste of money, which will do nothing but increase car traffic and greenhouse gas emissions. Click to close the curve If we are to succeed in the transition in the transport sector, there must be less car traffic in the big cities. For even if 100 pst. Of the cars sold from 2025, electric cars, about two thirds of the cars running on the roads in 2030, are fossil cars. All research also shows that smaller car-based cities are better cities to live in. They have cleaner air, and there's more space for everyone. Click to close the curve The government has no goal of reducing car traffic. They only aim to have the same amount of car traffic as today in the big cities. That is why we are today promoting proposals to strengthen the zero growth target in the big cities – that the state should not only have the ambition not to increase car traffic, but actually reduce it strongly. It will provide less greenhouse gas emissions, cleaner air and more pleasant cities to live in. It will provide a green climate policy for the many, and not a grey climate policy for the few. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2854	SV's loose proposal for a tender on the railway south requires a few words. I would have liked to have waited – as the Council of State put it – until December 18, when we are going to have a statement from the Council of State. But we cannot put forward any own proposals for that debate, and that is one of the reasons why we had to have a little debate on this today. We'll come back to that debate again – I'm sure we'll get even more powder in a week. Click to close the curve It is well known here in the hall and beyond the country, I hope, that SV has been a tumultuous opponent of the so-called railway reform and that routes are to be offered. But when the bulk of the population has gone against this, with the help of the Christian People's Party, then we have to fight further for the staff and for the crew of the passengers, when the Sørlandsbanen will be run by the British company Go-Ahead, which does not exactly have a full railway wagon of good reputation. There was growing doubt about the government's handling of the bidding round. New elements have emerged in the evaluation of the criteria for the tender. It was early established that Go-Ahead best cut on just one of fifteen quality criteria in competition with NSB and SJ, even though quality should count the most. Is it strange that we ask questions? Click to close the curve Now it also turns out that within the three sub-criteria to get satisfied customers, who were to be given considerable attention, cut Go-Ahead at the worst on all three. Is it strange that we ask questions? Click to close the curve It has also been found, through the excellent reports of the Evening Post, that the Railway Directorate has operated on two calculations, one official and one unofficial. The unofficial, which the public cannot see, and which would contain business secrets, is, as I understand it, the basis for giving the Südlandsbanen to Go-Ahead. Lawyer Robert Myhre, a leading expert on public acquisitions and contract law, says to the Evening Post that the directorate's secrecy is incomprehensible. He says straight out that the rules of the railway competition are broken. Is it strange that we ask questions and propose an independent review? That's the reason for our loose proposals. It is the three solutions that are available and that I address. Click to close the curve I would also like to give an explanation of vote for the other loose proposals that have been put forward today. We are going to vote in favour of all the solutions except for No. 13 and 17, subsidiary of proposal No. 16, from the Christian People's Party. In the event of an error, it says that we are not in the VI in the setting. We have to vote for VI. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2867	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2873	It is a well-known expression that when there is a financial debate and a budget debate, one should say hello from the pulpit. But I'd better say hello from home. For now it is time for reprise. This matter I have talked about several times from the pulpit, but the government seems to have forgotten it this year too: the railway. Among the municipal administrations and the inhabitants along this section of the railway, there is great frustration at the proposal for a State budget – once again – a frustration that we in the Workers' Party have a great deal of understanding of. Click to close the curve The track is part of the Southern Railway, which the government has put out to competition and allocated to the company Go-Ahead, which in itself is a topic that can be said a lot about. One of the reasons the government has given for the allocation is the large growth in passenger numbers in the future, which the company has assumed. One of the reasons for growth on the Jærbanen in the future is that there is a focus on the development of double tracks on the Jærbanen, but in the proposal for next year's state budget, there is also not a single crown for planning the double track from Sandnes to Egersund. Click to close the curve In addition to the fact that planning is essential for passenger development, there is also local dissatisfaction in the region. Along the entire Jærbanen in the municipalities of Klepp, Time, Hå and Egersund stands the development of densely populated areas because large areas in the agglomerations are linked to future double tracks. Nothing can be planned in the connected areas. One example is the parking situation at the stations, which gets worse year by year, and commuters choose cars instead of trains. Click to close the curve It looks like the government, with a Left who before the election talked a lot about the Jærbanen, has scraped the plans for a long-distance double track on the Jærbanen. I hope they don't have it. But if they have it, they should soon say it and cancel the bonding, so that the municipalities can develop their dents. We all prefer to see that there's going to be money to start planning, as the Workers' Party puts into its alternative budget. Because with this government, there doesn't seem to be a double trail. It's just double communication. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2890	I'm going to say hello to Trondelag and ask if the government has forgotten its promises for the county. When there was a government change, there was no way that new projects were to be implemented in Trøndelag. The ongoing investigation we had then, about the location of the logistics node, was cancelled. It was supposed to come true. It was just to be placed and invested instantly. Now a temporary freight terminal is working, and the total investment is waiting. The proximity of rail and sea is complicated and extremely expensive — if it is realised at all. Click to close the curve The escape bridge was supposed to come. Now they are allowed to advance it within the environmental package, and only a fraction of the money comes at the end of the NTP period. Then the county roads were to be given priority, but the aftermath has quadrupled in the last five years. The tunnel safety code takes all the means. The expenses were earmarked for 1 billion. kr, and Trondelag will receive 14 million. kr per year. Click to close the curve The county builds road like that and is Norway's second largest road owner, only the state road operator is bigger. Five major road projects are under way. Three of them are financed by 75 pst. tolls, and two have 50 pst. toll financing. The main economic pathways are first built. Click to close the curve Then we were to get a trainset of dimensions: electrification of the Trunder Railway, new train sets and increased frequency. Actually, we were supposed to get plane trains. This might be the biggest disappointment. The railway in Trøndelag is just as important for the collective effort in Trondheim and its surroundings as in Oslo, Bergen and Stavanger. Yes, we get two major road projects on the E6 table. They're going to come in the wrong order, but they're going in the wrong order. The train first, said a co-ordinated Trendelag. Then, of course, the Workers' Party agrees with the Left's suggestion to comment on the state budget, that we are still waiting for electrification of the Tronder and Meråker tracks. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2901	Now it is 73 years since U-864 was torpedoed outside of Fedje. It was completely at the end of the war. 73 people died. Click to close the curve The submarine is now 150 metres deep. More than 80 tonnes of mercury are still on board the boat. The submarine is in the middle of the lease and is today exposed to sea currents, and he poses a significant risk to the marine environment, which may be harmful, among other things. for Norway as a fish exporter. A bad rumor here will hit the whole industry, and our fish exports are approaching 100 billion. kr in annual export income. There should be less negative publicity until this can cost us dearly. Click to close the curve Most of the parties have been raised – and most of the parties have changed. The problem is when the expertise comes with different advice. Coastal works have been approved for coverage and not raising. At the same time, there are several distinct environments that stress that mercury can be absorbed without risk and at a much lower price than it has so far been. Click to close the curve I note that the Committee asks the government to assess whether there is any information or new technology that means that the rise of mercury is environmentally sound before we implement it. There is a joint committee behind this, including the Labour Party. This is a better proposal than the government put forward, that is to say, 30 million. kr to prepare a cover. But that's not good enough anyway. Firstly, it is very critical that the government, after spending millions for consultants, has not yet managed to provide an objective basis for decision-making. Then the opposition thinks that one has to try to remove the most of the load before starting a cover. The opposition also demands that the professional unsemble be brought into the light of its full width, and that all the leading trade unions be withdrawn in order to obtain the best possible decision base. Only then can we know if we have a basis for making the right decision. Click to close the curve In a proposal from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV we demand that the government return to Stortinget with a case of handling the submarine. Coverage must not occur until it is likely that it is not possible to pick up mercury without risk to health and the environment. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2914	There are some things I would like to comment on, which I did not get included in my opening article. First of all, I want to say that we are very fortunate on the civil side who have had cooperation parties like the Christian People's Party and the Left, because there are parties that are concerned with reforming the system – they are concerned with reforms. Without it, we had a pretty boisterous budget today. Click to close the curve The second is that we've managed to raise the grants for urban environmental agreements to 50 pst. in the budgets of these five years. I myself have been the county rapporteur in Akershus, and I know that in the period 2007-2013 there was no grant to get that kind of investment in the counties. There was no help from the state to the great promises we stood before, either to the Fornebuban or to other railway sections. 50 pst. is several times more than zero, and now we have a budget of 75 pst. larger than it was in 2013, it's a little strange that you're still critical that it's not even more. It's a little bit incomprehensible. Click to close the curve Finally, I should like to say a little about what is currently happening. In fact, the fact that transport has now been put out for competition by rail, as has been done with all other public transport, has already achieved a very large price reduction. It is alarming that the NSB also made an offer that was significantly below what they had agreed to drive trains in Norway. It's not like you've always been happy with NSB, and the NSB's reputation has always been good. I might think that sometimes they get an undeserved amount of criticism. It is clear that it may be difficult to drive trains in Norway, even on the Eastfold Railway, when much is not at hand. But there has been a significant improvement in recent years. I take the train every time I go to Stortinget, and say that the NSB is better than its reputation. Yes, the railway is better than its reputation. If you stay on the platform today, you haven't actually been there in time. It's almost a bigger problem that trains go exactly than they're delayed. Click to close the curve I think that once you've lost the fight to expose the railway to competition, the old strategy is to start doubting the numbers and facts of those who won. I believe that when the NSB and the Swedish railway have not appealed the case about the Sørlandsbanen, there is every reason to believe that what is there is good enough. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2925	First of all, some clarifications to my good colleagues from the Right and Advance Party in the Nordic countries: the centre party is for ERTMS, the European Rail Traffic Management System. This electronic train control system is very important, and it's over 6 billion. kr to this measure in our budget. The ongoing teleworking on the Nordlandsbanen is prioritised by the Senterpartiet. Click to close the curve When I was a state politician and the right parties that came into government, the distribution keys changed, the county council had to adjust to a reduction of 248 million. kr annually from 2020. Now, two years later, the decline that Nordland has to adjust to is 459 million. kr annually from 2022. So we first had a decrease of approx. 1 billion. DKK in four years. Now the deduction is almost 1 billion. DKK of 2 years. I think it is free from the representative Dagfinn Henrik Olsen to say that when the county councils have to adapt to the framework conditions, the problem is that they cannot prioritize. Of course, 1 billion. kr less in two years is marked on the services that people get from the county. Click to close the curve The representative of Nils Aage Igstad said that we spent less money on services, roads and things. But that's not true. He also mentioned reforms and that he is pleased with all the new reforms, but these reforms represent 60 pst. of the state's consultancy, and it was 12 billion. kr in 2015, according to the Riksrevisionen. There's probably more now. But without this violent reform disease, we might have had several of these twelve billion consultants for services, road and runway. Perhaps we would also need fewer air passenger charges and lower VAT on public transport. Click to close the curve The short-distance network is very important, but we see that the government in the new tenders has added up to an increase in ticket prices. It is very important to have a good flight offer across the country in terms of both frequency and price. The centre party is proposing to set 20 million. kr in our alternative budget proposal to reduce the price of tickets for which the State is responsible. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2936	I have been following the debate and thinking that the policies pursued in the counties are an important source of and great opportunity for economic development, especially if the organisation of policies is accompanied by good faith and good transport and incentives. Click to close the curve But first, let me take the first one: the idea was early to respond to the expressed need of the majority in Stortinget to merge county councils and municipalities. In Trøndelag – we in Tøndelag feel a community, so directly unnatural it wasn’t to join together – we thought that being out early could get a sort of clapping on the shoulder, because Tøndelag was first out, and because you were the first to get ready for a larger task portfolio. Click to close the curve This year we have been told that following the advice of the majority of the population on rapid aggregation was a bad move. For the first time in many years, there has been a real decline in economic space. This will have clear consequences, not only for the operation of the county itself, but for the belief in the state as an actor, with the ability to facilitate the new state to become something different and something more than the aggregation of two old ones. So instead of getting a good start on the work of preparing for new tasks, the county is ordered back in the start blocks, as if they had started theft. Click to close the curve The Central Party has made significant increases in funds for municipalities and districts in its 2019 alternative state budget. When making a new state work well, it is important that infrastructure connects the different parts. It is symbolically important, but even more important, it can provide opportunities for a more flexible and mobile labour market. Click to close the curve This is why, and there have been several recent developments, we have had high expectations for the development of the Trander Railway, according to the promises given in the National Transport Plan. It would give the county a real boost. We find it sad how the government has trained and failed to follow up on resources with regard to the promises made in the national transport plan. Click to close the curve The representative says that the goal is that more people have to travel by rail. Yeah, but it can't be on the Thrønderban. It is full of continuance, and in the meantime we have to set up a bus for trains in order to get all the passengers with us. If a few more people go over to the train, they won't keep it the way we see it now. Click to close the curve So to another important means of transport and communication: broadband. Broadband is important to bind people, regions and the country together. The centre party proposes – as we also promised in our alternative NTP proposal – to strengthen the allocations for broadband deployment in areas where it is not commercially profitable, with more than 400 million. kr, so that the whole country has good broadband coverage in nine years. The government, on the other hand, will cut by 99.7 million into the scheme that contributes to better broadband coverage. kr. [[The President clubs.]] Then you wouldn't believe that avoiding proper investment in infrastructure... [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2953	Time's up. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2958	The government recommends to cover the submarine U-864 outside of Fedje. In the state budget for 2019, it is worth 30 million. kr to start work in 2019. At the 2013 collapse election, the list tops of the Right and the Advance Party in Hordaland made the choice that if they won the collapse option, they promised the whole submarine would come up. They won the choice, but now they won't even ensure that the mercury comes up. It has been silently from the Right and the Advance Party for six years, until the recommendation to cover the submarine was announced in the fall, in the state budget for 2019. Major political spin-offs should be well looked for – and greater lifting breakes alike. Click to close the curve The 67-tonne submarine is the world's largest mercury point source. The matter has already been settled for more than 250 million. kr. However, the Coast Guard's risk matrix, which is the basis for the recommendation to cover cargo and boat, is a good reason to ask questions. In general, the risk of cover-up appears to be low. In the risk matrix, e.g. earthquake defined into the green zone, while bad weather is seen in the red zone and uplifting in the dangerous zone. This is a little bit trusting. Click to close the curve It is said that covering has a wide range of professional connections, but the Norske Veritas stated in 2006: ‘The only measure with a low risk in the long term is raising. Coverage, on the other hand, has a high long-term risk.» U-864 outside of Fedje is not a Fedje case or a Hordaland case. This is a national and international environmental issue. It frames the West, the North Sea, the Norwegian Sea and the Atlantic, and not least the mercury can affect and be a real threat to Norway's reputation as a maritime and environmental nation. Click to close the curve Long-term risk and uncertainty of coverage have not been adequately assessed in the reported reports. Worst-case events have not been evaluated in a professionally robust way. Short-term risks of raising are oversized and do not take into account the requirements it is possible to set technological solutions. The health and dispersal risk of cancellation has been incorrectly manufactured. Coverage is an irreversible solution with large uncertain factors. U-864-saka has a broader treatment than some lines in a government budget. The central party is proposing to take the matter out of the state budget, but we're not getting any more of that. It had taken a long time. Click to close the curve In the opinion of the Transport and Communications Committee, there is a plural note that the Centre also supports: ‘please assess whether new information or technology has been acquired by the government to ensure that the lifting of all or part of the load is environmentally sound’. Click to close the curve The centre party will closely follow up on this issue. Reassessment must be based on recordings from the established professional environment. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2981	U-864, the submarine located outside Fedje loaded with mercury from the days of the war, is recommended by the Coastal Works covered. The working party is concerned that it is necessary to remove as much mercury as possible before covering for the submarine missile. Sufficient decision-making grounds must be provided for such a serious case. We know that there is a risk of irreversible and extensive environmental damage, which could affect the reputation of the Norwegian fishing industry. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's Party provide proposals asking for a case relating to the handling of U-864, where it is also assessed to remove as much as possible of the mercury on board before covering the area. Click to close the curve As a finnmarking, I can see that the rusty transport budget has not reached all the way up to us. The Finnmarks Frank Bakke-Jensen and Bengt Rune Strifeldt promised before the election that there would be funds for Rv. 94 from Skaidi to Hammerfest, and that work should continue as a coordination section. In the meantime it happens small and small. Recently, Bengt Rune Strifeldt was in Hammerfest and held an appeal against the toll financing of the urban package in Hammerfest, which is a natural part of Rv. Ninety-four. It must be stated that the same appellant who has now been on the Transport Committee votes in favour of tolls on the Stortinget. And his transport minister produces toll propositions over a low shoe for Stortinget. The Progress Party continues its double communication on tolls, they vote in favour of the Stortinget, and they tell people out there that they are voting against – talk about lack of spine. Click to close the curve From the Labour Party we have concluded that a weak coastal budget has actually been exacerbated by the agreement with the Christian People's Party. Resources have been collected for the good actions of the Christian People's Party, including: from Leirpollen in Tana – deepening there. Resources have been collected from the Skarvberg tunnel of 50 million. kr, and from Tana, SEK 15 million. kr. We hope, of course, that there will be no postponement of these projects despite the fact that money has been collected from them, because this is an important project that it is important to get started. Click to close the curve Finally, I want to say that there are generally few projects going on in Finnmark. It's little activity for the works, the only project is Tana Bru. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e2992	Norway is a coastal nation and has clear ambitions for increased marine value creation. In Hordaland we have two large fishing municipalities. One is Austevoll, the other is Bømlo. Austevoll, in close cooperation between industry, municipality and coastal works, has received support for the development of a modern fishing port. Click to close the curve Bømlo is one of the largest fishing municipalities in the country. They have a young, changeable and adaptable fishing environment. They're for 28 pst. of the country's pelagic trawl quota, they have 125 registered fishing vessels, of which nine seagoing vessels, representing 200 employees and transferring for 400 million. kr. It's planned to invest over 2 billion. kr in new and larger vessels. Bømlo has a strong marine and maritime environment known as Wärtsilä, Eidesvik and Bremnes Seashore, which produces Salma salmon. All companies have a long tradition of taking in apprentices. Click to close the curve A new fishing port is essential for the further development of Bømlo. Today, the berth is too short, there are too shallow and narrow access conditions and there is little access to relevant service services. Bømlo needs ports with safe berths and development opportunities that will help to maintain and further develop a unique competence in pelagic fish and aquaculture. Click to close the curve Bømlo has three salmon slaughterhouses, several companies linked to farming and a large environment around equipment suppliers. Every year, 5.5 billion fish are driven from Bømlo, and 1,000 salmon waste trailers are driven out of the municipality. This can be exploited in new local commercial activities related to the port of Bømlo. New fishing ports will also reduce short sea shipping emissions, and Bømlo Skipsservice has decided to invest 15 million. kr in new shore power plant and received 11,25 million. kr from Enova just for this. Better ports will also facilitate increased short sea shipping. Click to close the curve The establishment of a new, safe and modern fishing port is so important for local business that they wanted to advance the public part of the port of fishing and have sent an application. Bømlo Port is inside the NTP, it is finalized, and with the value creation and employment potential it represents, it surprised us that they were not even invited to the ministry to evaluate their application. Click to close the curve The Workers' Party is a value-creating party and has therefore given priority to gunning to several ports, including Bømlo fishing port, because few investments would have given so much value creation and so many jobs. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3008	Since I was doing this for myself in a line change with the representative Sverre Myrli earlier today, I should like to make a brief contribution to the rail route charge as it has so far been in 2018. As I said in the reply, I believe that the fee does not provide a basis for saying that she was willing to move the goods from path to road. I'm still at it. So far in 2018, 37 million were demanded. NOK in the charge from the road tax on the railway. 24.5 million. kr of them are from Ofotbanen. That means it's approx. $12.5 million. kr which is charged in addition to it on the rest of the routes in Norway, and, unlike the road, Bane NOR has paid compensation close to 12 million. kr. Click to close the curve So I'm still standing at what was my main property in the line change: The charge may not have contributed to that transfer of goods. Click to close the curve No new fees will be introduced in 2019 that we did not have in 2018. Click to close the curve The alerting charge change that might have led to the loss of goods has not been introduced as of the present date. Click to close the curve That means that the main beastship from the lineword shift is standing, but now at least I've done the right thing for the number base and the background for it. Click to close the curve So to the representatives of the Labour Party, who on several occasions now use e.g. The Workers' Party's proposal to increase funding in important urban areas from 50 pst. until 70 pst., in its argument. Last, it was the representative of Lauvås who says it could have given new money to the towns of Lower Glomma. It's throwing blues in the eye of people -- it doesn't make sense at all. In its alternative draft budget, the Labour Party has also failed to finance the increase from 50 pst. to 70 pst. in existing agreement areas, the four major cities. They're missing more than 100 million. kr to do so, and now they also use the same money in new urban areas, which have also not been covered by the 50-50 scheme that this government introduced after the Workers' Party did not have such a system when they themselves put into government. Click to close the curve It's nice to be in the opposite position when you can use the money multiple times - supposing. But there will be no more collective provision for people of it. There will be no more and no better route of it, and there will be no more routes of it. This debate had indicated that the Workers' Party was honest that the money they were actually entitled to, did not extend to the promises they gave to the voters in the urban areas, because they do not finance today's growth from 50 pst. to 70 pst. in its alternative draft budget. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3031	I would like to underline the importance of transport investment for business. Without access to the market, our values are of little value, and we know that well in Northern Ireland. Click to close the curve On Sunday, the Prime Minister opened a fantastic bridge in Northland, Hålogalandsbrua, just north of Narvik. It has been fought by politicians and businesses over several decades and was adopted in the United Kingdom in 2012. The bridge was profitable for the community to build, and the reason for it is the large amount of train trains going to the train terminal in Narvik and to Ofotbanen. When they save 20 minutes on the trip, it gives high socio-economic value. The wagon trains are loaded with fresh fish from Lofoten, Vesterålen and Süd-Troms. Fresh fish have a high value, and the electrified train transport from Narvik to Oslo is competitive at price. Nordover supplies the train Nord-Norway with groceries. Click to close the curve In the red-green national transport plan adopted in June 2013, more capacity for goods at Ofotbanen was prioritised by 1.6 billion. kr, including a new crossing track at Narvik station. Now we are in 2018 and the crossing track at Narvik station is not built. Despite being in the national transport plan 2018–2029, the first part is not prioritised by the government in the budget for 2019. In other words, the main export year for fresh fish from North Norway, which exports for 12 billion. kr per year, not prioritized. As politicians, we need to provide better business organisation, especially when train transport is struggling with profitability. We in the Workers' Party have managed to prioritize 25 million. NOK in our option, to prepare the project so that we can send out tenders. Click to close the curve The community on Andøya deserves our attention and support, and the reason for that is the Storting decision from 2016 that the maritime surveillance aircraft, and hence the airbase on Andenes, should be moved to Evenes when we buy new maritime flights. There are a lot of jobs in the Andes that are going to be gone, and in addition to the means of conversion we're going to go into, infrastructure is one of the things we can contribute to creating business development. Click to close the curve At Andes they have a great fishing port project that will make it much better to drive a boat there, as well as that it facilitates too much new ground near the sea. Farming is planned on land, there are travel life actors who are interested, but the government has not financed to complete the planning or start up the fishing port project on the Andes. We're doing that in the Working Party of 25 million. kr in our option. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3044	The State Budget to the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party is by no means a merry reading for people out in the districts. The government says they're busy digitising and renewing Norway, while they're actually involved in creating a larger digital class distinction, because the differences are increasing depending on what kind of access people have to broadband. Click to close the curve The draft budget under the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party contains a budget of almost 200 million. kr to high-tech broadband expansion in Norway. Good broadband access is as important as water, sewerage, road and electricity. Most of the counties have a wide range of settlements and, in particular, challenges to ensure access to modern high-speed broadband for all citizens and businesses. For the elderly, welfare technology may be involved. For children and young people, it is central to daily schoolwork. For adults, it is crucial in the context of work. Click to close the curve The expansion of broadband must take place within a regime in which we use both public and private forces. However, it is a public responsibility to ensure the integrity of the offer, in particular to ensure the development and operation of areas where the commercial basis is weak. We need a spice layer between people living in the municipalities, builders and the public. In the absence of State investment and progress, many county municipalities have invited to work and split up, although that is not what they are primarily interested in. Click to close the curve In particular: Upland is shown to be a great deal of enthusiasm in municipalities for the work of filling the adopted strategy for broadband with content. Overall, the municipalities of Oppland have made a total political decision of 33 million. kr last year, and the Centre Party knows that many municipalities have worked hard both to develop good development projects and not least to co-finance the projects within a rather narrow municipal framework. As a result, Uppland County has decided to grant 33 million. kr for the expansion of broadband. And where is the state? It does not and does not match this at all, despite the fact that the majority with the Centrette in the head believes that this is a government task and money that could have been used for the maintenance of county roads, for supporting business and other county tasks. Click to close the curve The centre party believes that access to high-speed broadband is just as important for our citizens as the mains network was 100 years ago. When it is said that the commercial market is working, it once again shows that this is not just about money, but about the political view that will underlie future efforts. Click to close the curve The central party believes that the government has insufficient broadband investment in areas that are not commercially interesting for private developers. The Central Party proposes in its budget that 500 million be allocated. NOK in grants for the non-commercial expansion of broadband. This will allow the country to base completely different premises on this work. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3059	A lot of traffic is happening, but is it being put on the right track? I think we have to give priority to security first. What about county highway race protection? It doesn't increase in the year's budget setting with the price rise once. The centre party wants to bet on state roads. There are so many challenges and so many differences between states that only own bets can solve the challenge and get a safer path. I encourage everyone to take a walk on a highway, rv. 13, Fjordvegen, from Sandnes to Fjordde and look at the challenges there. Then we know that it's a paradox that we bet on 110 km of four-field roads many places without the biggest traffic, when one that can't actually get past with two passenger cars, where the race risk is a constant challenge, where drivers have to run with open glass large parts of the year. And the summer day, on some of the most beautiful tourist areas we have, one never knows if a user spends an hour or five on the same route, because it's full of jaws. And then I think it's necessary to think a little bit more about what one prioritizes first. Click to close the curve Before the 2017 elections, the then Minister of Transport made it clear that it was now time to move ahead with the K5, train and track between Arna and Voss. He met up after several races and was clear that here today's government would be the fastest starter. What's happening now? Well, the railroad doesn't have funds. The only thing the Road Service has to plan is the safest part of the road that's there. I think we're content, we're going to be able to get there, even in the opposition, to say that there's not money for everything, but then life and health have to come first. Click to close the curve I heard in a debate earlier today that the Progress Party was busy with pollution of the sea, and that plastic pollution was a big problem. Yeah, that's a big problem. But I think the mercury outside of Fedje is actually an even bigger problem. If that's the will, we should be able to solve it. It must be the best insurance we can provide for Norwegian farming. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3070	There are several of the representatives who have put up for the tranny evening, and when the president is also a trouser, you can do it! Click to close the curve But a little answer to what is the government's policy on the transport challenges in Trøndelag: we have to remember that a road south of Tøndelag is now being built that will be completed in February. So there is a road on E6 from the Drop and out to Melhus, for you who are well-known – there are obviously more who are here, as there has been so much talk about Trondelag. Of course, it has been in the environmental package, but it is the country that has mainly paid the road, because it is a national road. Click to close the curve Then we're very happy that we're allowed to advance e.g. The new release bridge. It is very important as an environmental project, because it can greatly relieve the traffic in the centre of the city. Click to close the curve I would also, of course, like to comment on the Trønderban. The left has been eager to get it as an alternative to E6 both for Værnes and further to Steinkjer. We still hope that there will be a good solution with many passengers, because not everyone has noticed when you were just interested in electrification and maybe not new trains and not at least half an hour of frequency. It requires some crossing tracks and some other adjustments. That's what the Railway Directorate is now doing to actually investigate what is the most optimal solution to get as many passengers as possible. Today there are only 1.2 million passengers on the subway train that we're talking about. We should have a target of 3 to 4 million. It should be within reach when we get the new solutions in place. Click to close the curve So in the case of New Roads: I hear that the Workers' Party is somewhat aggressive in connection with that we have to make these tunnel regulations. We can't stand a single accident in these tunnels between Trondheim and Værnes. There are many dangerous tunnels today, there is a lot of traffic there, and something has to be done. The left is very much behind that there will be double tunnels, so that we avoid any major disaster. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3083	In Norway, there are hundreds of thousands of people commuting. Just from Akershus to Oslo, there are over 8,000 people commuting every day. There are also very many people in Norway who live away from their family for shorter or longer periods of time. The commuters have difficult situations to make family life go up, to make their time go up, and very many of the commuters, not least many of those who have had disabilities living in wrecks, also work in occupations where they experience pressure on pay and working conditions. Click to close the curve When the Central Party challenges the government parties in the situation of commuters, among other things: In a line-up here earlier today, I notice that the representative says that a ‘can always discuss details’. One shall have a reasonable good economy and live on high wages if one considers that the constraints experienced by commuters in Norway in recent years are ‘detailed’. One, for example, commuter from Eidsvoll to Oslo, a day commuter, has received an increase in tax of nearly NOK 3000 a year through the contractions in the commuting allowance. According to the changes made in the current year’s budget, those living on set-aside have been taxed from NOK 7 000 to NOK 8 000. These are not ‘details’, these are large increases in tax for the groups concerned. Click to close the curve At the top of it, there are also tax increases. If you drive a car, you will experience an increased fee on petrol and diesel. If a train runs and finds out that one should park at the train station instead, the jam comes with increased charges at very many train stations as well. There will be increased charges for bus transport, on trains, on aircraft. In domestic air transport, an important part of the public transport sector in a long-term Norway, charges have increased by about half. 2 billion. kr with the rudder section. And this year it is the taxi industry that gets a big click through fees increases that are being presented. Click to close the curve At the top of it again, one also experiences with the Progress Party, which was elected in 2013 to remove tolls in Norway, that the collection of tolls has never been higher. One of the things that a person sees is: that the Dale Council of State has called locally for the Glomma crossing. To get the Glomma crossing in place, he called for increased toll collection. Instead, progress must be made in the project and increased appropriations made for the project. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3094	The representative Siv Mossleth's attempt to draw a picture of the county roads in Northernland and who is responsible for them needs to be charged. Click to close the curve The representative said that the reason for the condition was the way it was was is the government and the income keys. Let's say 8 billion. kr in aftermath on the county roads in Northern Ireland has not arrived overnight. There is a long time of error prioritization that has led to it. It's true that the income keys gave us a reduction of 248 million. kr, simply because we are fewer Nordics, compared to how many inhabitants there are elsewhere in Norway. But the remaining funds to which she referred are simply due to the fact that there are also fewer 16- to 19-year-olds, who also bring us down. Yes, the county council and the rest of the Nordics can probably take on the responsibility that there are fewer 16-19-year-olds, nor can the Storting do anything about that. But what is at least certain is that the county roads in the Nordic countries need priority given that there are important food routes for salmon and other fishing industries in the Nordic countries. Click to close the curve If we're going to do something about this, it has to be given proper priority. When the Nordland county council last considered whether the county council should give up responsibility for the county roads to the state, the centre party itself set up and voted that they would like to have these roads, knowing well that the reduction in the income system had been adopted. Click to close the curve And the tolls actually have to be mentioned. No, I do not think it is double communication on the part of the Progress Party. We recognize that we had a break-up at the elections that would not give us a clean majority in this Chamber, but we also recognize that if we had left because the toll projects are adopted by the majority here, the consequences would probably have been significantly worse for the drivers than they are. It is just shown by the fact that the toll share in the projects is being reduced, and then we know the phase of how it was – then the toll ratio is going to rise again. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3105	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3110	To the representative Olsen: only one highway had been proposed, and it was the highway that was in good condition. The county council of Nordland will give priority to 1 billion. in the next four years of the state roads, prioritising it despite the great decline that this government has announced. Click to close the curve But I'm going to talk about the Post. There are a lot of people who contact me and are desperate because of the mail, both private and business. I would like to make it clear that the Central Party is pleased that the government will maintain the postal distribution five days a week in the 2019 election year, but we believe it is alarming that the Post will reduce the distribution to two and a half days a week – and in the long term to one day a week. It is a conversion that the Center Party does not support, and given all the feedback I have received, I am sure that people do not support this either. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3117	Norway has been a country that has been well organised, a country with small differences between people. The reason why this is interesting to start with in the transport debate is that some people might argue that this is a debate where there are not so many differences between the parties, where there is the most grievances about the amount of money. The reality of Norwegian policy is that there are increasing differences between the political directions, considering how we should govern our society – whether democracy in this room is to be the leader in social development, or whether there should increasingly be an uncontrolled market alone. In this context, there are actually several issues that are interesting in the transport and transport debate. Instead of using forces with railway employees to improve the provision of people, passenger transport is to be privatised. Instead of working with the trade unions and those who have a lifelong professional life behind them, and who can say something about how we can improve the offer to transport people across our country, trustees are to be run over, and people who have washed the trains for 40 years may lose the pension by a few months. Instead of having visions for expanding broadband to everyone, just as we've had it for power and telephone, modern communication is to be down-prioritized. Click to close the curve The reason why this is interesting is that if we're going to live in a social democracy, as we in the Workers' Party want, it's just the voice of the one washing the trains, which is interesting to us, at least as interesting as the ever-growing bureaucracy of railway operations. Then it's interesting that those who lose their local vision should also have access to participate in democracy, by expanding broadband across the country. That is why the transport debate is also an important venue for political participation, at least as we in the Labour Party see it. And we need in the next few years a greater degree of democracy, not a blind belief in the market alone. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3124	I think it's been a nice transport debate so far. We've been discussing transnational things, we've also been discussing ultra-local things, and that's how a good transport debate should be. We have different priorities, and we have many good wishes, of course – more wishes than there is money for – and then I dare remind the Chamber that the transport budget, which we are now to adopt, has increased by 75 pst. since 2013. It is a formidable increase and shows that this is a priority area. Click to close the curve The working party said that this budget was far too puzzled in the coastal area. The representative of Ingarill Olsen also mentioned that no planning of fishing ports is currently taking place. I dare remind you that there are 10 million. kr in the budget for the planning of fishing ports, for which the new regions may apply to be in the forefront and start planning. Then I have respect for the fact that it may be somewhat difficult for her family to start working with Troms and plan fishing ports when you have not reached the goal of merging. Click to close the curve I've compared the coastal effort that the red-green government has had in the last five years, with the coastal effort in the five years this government has been sitting, and I've found that it's about the same -- it's almost 1 billion. kr on both governments. But in addition, this government, with what is adopted today, has a gunning order of about half a billion. Click to close the curve Then I also notice in the debate that representatives from the Central Party are very concerned about the development of rail freight traffic. I just have to say once again that I think it is a bit strange that the measure that can have the greatest impact on the goods industry, the new ERTMS signalling system, thus cuts the Senterparte by half a billion, without saying what they are prioritizing. Click to close the curve One has also been on the Ofot track, among others. A representative from the Workers' Party, Åsunn Lyngedal, and there I recall that the majority parties have a comment. A number of measures have also been implemented that have increased capacity at Ofotbanen, but we need to do more in the future. For this reason, the Right now decided to conduct a seminar on Ofotbanen here at Stortinget. It will be on 29 January, and then we will of course invite the entire transport committee to participate. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3138	The Workers' Party's alternative budget is a city and country budget, for housing and industrial development. In the Workers' Party, we will bind the country together. Click to close the curve The government is pursuing a policy that increases disparities, not only between poor and rich, but also between city and country. The government is under-funding the county councils, which are responsible for the county roads and public transport – the districts are losing. The government leaves to the market to secure broadband coverage across the country – districts are losing. The government liberalises the postal market and weakens the distribution – districts lose. The government’s bid for air routes is lower – the districts are losing. The government does not follow up on racial protection funds - the districts are losing. The government does not follow up on tunnel protection appropriations - the districts are losing. The government is depriving coastal action and the fishing ports – the districts are losing. Click to close the curve In my home state, Trøndelag, road projects are delayed. The fact that, despite too high national road appropriations, the government is not able to comply with the national transport plan is not in line with the promises made by the voters. The same applies to the rail in Trøndelag. In examining both the existing national transport plan and the previous red-green national transport plan, an overall committee underlined the importance of launching the electrification and modernisation project for the Trander Railway and the Meråkerbahn as soon as possible. The Working Party has been pressing for progress throughout the period and the project is being carried out as quickly and coordinated as possible. The government does not support the promise of a modern, environmentally friendly railway in Trøndelag, which has been a priority project since the red-green government chose the concept for the project in September 2012. This government has trained the project year by year. When the left came into the government, you might think it would get a different pace, but then one. Click to close the curve "If we don't get money for the Tronderban now, it's bad." It's not a broken Labour Party politician who has said this, but the Director of the NHO Trondelag, Tord Lien. He rightly accuses the right parties, who have promised electrification of the railway in Trøndelag, of a solid lifting breach. He clearly expressed his disappointment that the government failed to grant money for electrification of the Trander Railway this year as well. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3149	First, I just want to comment a little bit about the Nils T. Bjørke Center Party, which suggested that we build a four-field road with 110 km/h except where the main traffic is. That is, we build four fields where there might not be a need for it, as I interpret the Center Party. It's completely wrong. We are building profitable four-field projects where the ÅDT is several times higher than today's requirements for building four fields. We're connecting regions, we're getting less travel time. It leads to growth, it leads to development, and it leads to employment and value creation – even in the districts, which I would believe is important to the Center Party. We're actually building a motorway network for the future, we're building the road network that former governments unfortunately didn't prioritize. If you go back to after World War II in the United States in the 1950s, Eisenhower set in motion Interstate expansion. Western Europe built up the motorway network after World War II, and Eastern Europe built out as soon as they got rid of communism and was demolished. In Norway we had to wait for a blue-blue right-wing government together with the Left and Christian People's Party before we started road construction. Click to close the curve Then it was the force-salves from the Sandtröen representative. It was violent, it was almost so you should think you were in the United States or in a school debate. There were quite juicy claims made here. Norway has been a country with small differences and a lot of similarity, starting with the Sandtrøen representative. Ergo and understood, there is now clearly a big difference, and it has become a very big difference and has created a gap between the poor and the rich. And we are the ones who have obviously ruined the welfare model that the Workers' Party has built up. That's almost how it can be interpreted. Click to close the curve In the case of ‘uncontrolled market’, there must be a reference to the railway reform, as I interpret the input to the Sandtrøen representative. Alone without political governance: it's completely wrong, the state controls everything in terms of railway reform. The only final privatisation that the Sandtrøen representative was concerned about is that some private companies can win tenders in competition with the NSB, for example. It doesn't worry me. It is also worrying that the Workers' Party will not save the billions we can save by having competition. Click to close the curve Then we finally got something from the Sandtrøen representative that we need greater democracy and not blind belief in the market alone. It's hard to take that statement seriously. Is that again the railway reform it is aimed at here? The fact that we get better and cheaper train offers, and that we save taxpayers and people most – will that weaken democracy? There's a strange rhetoric coming out. Click to close the curve Finally, to the representative of Kjerkol from Trøndelag, who says that she is not getting anywhere: I would just like to remind you that without the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, there had not been a four-field road of 110 km/h. Then you had less road, now you get more road thanks to today's government. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3168	The representative Bengt Fasterale has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3173	In order to achieve the Storting's ambition for a comprehensive expansion of the national road network, it is important that the ongoing project is completed. It's in everyone's interest. Click to close the curve For the Central Party, priority should be given to the corridors that keep the regions of this long-range country together. The centre party sees a clear tendency for this to be down-prioritized, for the benefit of large, cost-intensive projects around the large, population-oriented areas. We are concerned that funds are allocated to the start-up and investigation of priority projects, in order to avoid them being pushed out in time. The example is that the project E69 Skarvberg Tunnel has been reduced by 50 million. kr following the budgetary agreement. We do not agree with that. The budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party shows that appropriations for the E16 Eye-Eidsbru will be reduced by 94 million. kr. This shall not lead to delays in the project. The centre party considers that released funds must be used for starting the E16 Eye-Turtnes route. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3180	I'm actually going to talk a little bit about Bergensbanen. If there's one project that could really have something to say for the environment, it's a real upgrade to Bergensbanen. Then one can actually come down in a travel time of less than four hours, with today's plans. Then one will really get a competitor to fly and maybe skip the discussion about the second runway in Bergen and a third runway on the Gardermoen. That's how I think the cost can prove to be very reasonable. In addition, a few of the freight traffic can be lost, which today is too bad. Click to close the curve A little bit about priority and four-field. I thought the representative Tor André Johnsen answered well there, I: No, he would have 110 km/h and full speed. It's fun with a nice path, but I thought a little bit about the ADT, whether it's between Sandnes and Kristiansand, or it's between Stavanger and Bergen. We need a proper path, but I think we'll actually make it if it's not 110 km/h. Click to close the curve Today, we are going to have more environmentally friendly transport. I don't think that's the freight traffic we should prioritize should run in 110 km/h. The electric car – at least the one I have – is no longer so effective when I run for 110 km/h. And that's the vehicles we're going to bet on today. When people wear down the road they're afraid to run on, when they're afraid to send their kids to school and there's not two fields, so one gets into a lot of traffic, I think one is forced to prioritize the most important first. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3189	The representative, Jon Gunnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3194	This is a small greeting to SV, who lamented that there was not enough government funds for the big cities. It certainly won't be enough, but the last year they were in government, it was 673 million. to development measures for urban public transport. Next year, it's $3.7 billion. And it's very good that you go in with government money for these good measures, because it's maybe the ones that have the best effect on the climate challenges we have. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3199	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3204	There have been some greetings from Stortinget to the districts today, and then there have been some greetings from the districts to Stortinget. Now I'm going to greet nature, a little on behalf of my old position and old profession. Click to close the curve I've seen a lot of nature, I've filmed a lot of waterfalls, and I've filmed Vøringsfossen. I want to raise a small index finger to the Council of State and to the State Road Service – if they are represented here – and say that you have to think very carefully about how much repairs and arrangements you have to make for the national tourist roads as well. It has been very good of what has been done, but the new bridge over Vøringsfossen is not quite good, in my opinion. A 40 meter long bridge in the attraction – not just up to the attraction to make it safe, because it is important, but above the foot – is not quite good. It's very sad, and I'm sorry. I'm getting a little late on the track, but it's actually still possible to turn around. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3211	It is the sea that is the basis of Norway as a nation. We've always lived by what the sea gives, and the sea will be the basis for future value creation and value sharing. The port of Norway has the world's second longest coastline. We have six times more sea area than land area, and 80 pst. of the sea areas we have, located north of the Arctic Circle. Click to close the curve For the Workers' Party, it is an objective to develop and implement an ambitious maritime strategy for the country. Our goal is to develop new knowledge about sustainable value creation – at, below, in and above the sea level. New, profitable jobs are created in existing and new marine industries. The assumption is that we invest in infrastructure that makes it possible to harvest the sea, and that we can still be a world-leading maritime nation. Coastal and fairway measures are therefore essential. Unfortunately, it seems that this is a sector that is not high on government priorities. Click to close the curve Both the current government and the previous government had great ambitions to increase the value creation from the sea. There have been ambitions for both fivefold and sixfold of export revenue around 2050, i.e. revenues of around 500 billion. kr every one year. It's really the new oil. Click to close the curve When boats grow larger, technology emerges more advanced and new opportunities, we also need an infrastructure that enables us to take advantage of the opportunities offered. That's why the Workers' Party also proposed to bet $4.9 billion. kr more than the government proposes, in coastal action in the current national transport plan, of which we proposed 1.4 billion. kr extra for strengthening strategic ports, for new technologies and for freight transmission. Click to close the curve The majority of Stortinget has now decided that the responsibility for fishing ports should be transferred to the counties. There is a wrong policy, at least when a simultaneous strangles the appropriations to bet on the infrastructure along the coast. The northern states have about a quarter of the coastline. Troms and Finnmark also have large sections of the coastline. It goes without saying that combined with the cuts in the income of county municipalities, it becomes difficult to make the necessary investments in fishing ports in order to take advantage of the potential for value creation that we see. They now experience in the Seconds, where they have a screaming need for a larger and safer fishing port, which has been pushed out in the last part of the period. In the Labour Party, we think it is right to prioritise it now, and we have spent money on it in our alternative budget, both for the current year and for the next year. Click to close the curve I am afraid that the government parties' policies lead in the wrong direction. It will be difficult for Norway to reach ambitions as a port when there is no room for decisive action to strengthen the competitiveness of the coast and the opportunities offered in the future. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3227	Throughout this debate, the opposition has talked about government not investing in digital infrastructure. That's wrong. In the budget agreement we have now concluded with the Christian People's Party, not only strengthens broadband investment – beyond what was the level of commitment in 2018 – but at the top of it comes one of the most important initiatives we will have on the digital infrastructure for years to come, namely the release of the frequencies of the new 5G network. There is a significant investment in digital infrastructure in this budget, and it can sometimes be heard on the opposition as if it were not the case – that is not the basis for it. So that's wrong. I repeat for the third time: there is a significant commitment to digital infrastructure in the budget that is currently being agreed. Click to close the curve So to rail, rail reform and competition on the railways: it has a broad support for the railway reform at this moment. The competition that has been carried out has given us a new offerer in Norway. When you hear the argument from the Sandtrøen representative and others from the Workers' Party, you can start to wonder how consistent one is, over time at least. One thing is that one does not want competition on the Norwegian railway, or that one does not want reform – even if one says that one does not want to reverse the railway reform, one does not want it. It is therefore not possible for others to come here and compete for the operation of trains on Norwegian railways, while it is quite right that the state-owned company NSB competes for the supply of services in Sweden – yes, it is even right that they win two out of six competitors. At all, there is no threat when the argumentation is not better in the cluster than it is. Click to close the curve The NSB tolerates competition abroad and they tolerate competition in Norway. The first supply package won another company, because they had the greatest faith that they could move passengers into the Norwegian railway. It encourages a safe, efficient and competitive rail system even in the years to come. Click to close the curve So we're going to go in for the landing and thank you for the discussion, the debate, also in this round. So once again, I notice that while the government party is occupied with realizing the free E39, the Socialist Left Party and their alleged support players in the Storting are most concerned with making sure that we are “fertile” forever. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3238	This debate has probably been very interesting for particularly interested people. If the Norwegian people get more information, I'm more uncertain about it. The only thing the Norwegian people can be informed about is that it's the bourgeois parties that are united that want something about the transport policy in the country, and you see that the country is linked through combined mobility. Click to close the curve When I hear the criticism from the Workers' Party, I wonder which world you live in. One criticises the intercity planning and expansion, because the red-greens thought that they would build to a certain point in time. Therefore, the professional assessments of the underlying conditions are not taken into account. Nor has it been budgeted for the Oslo Tunnel to get the trains through. It's staggering today, over a hundred more departures than they put up until the time those red-greens crashed. I do not know what professional reasons the Labour Party representative has for the location around Oslo and where all the buses are going, given all the intercitybeina into Oslo S, when the tunnel is shut down simultaneously with their project. Click to close the curve At the same time, it is tradition to believe a criticism of the Progress Party for not having completely removed the toll. No well, that's quite correct, they're reduced. But it is not thanks to the Workers' Party, then it would have been higher. It is strange, then, that the Labour Party itself has not budgeted for further reduction, if they call for it in every single debate. Click to close the curve When the Workers' Party also criticises the launching of trains and Go-Ahead for having heard something in England, I would remind the Workers' Party – you can read – that those who have been criticized in England are going to run the same FLIRT train sets, they are going to run the Norwegian FLIRT train sets, and it is the same Norwegian workers who are going to work there. It's who the Workers' Party is criticizing, which they think should do a bad job. But you don't ask yourself how the NSB itself could halve its bid. That should be the big question. That means that competition works, and the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are at least occupied by the customers. It's about the differences. Isn't it nice, then, to get even more services for the same money, get even better quality and be even more customer-oriented, and not based on what the Workers' Party thinks are proper services? Click to close the curve For the Center Party is critical of building motorways in the districts: Yes, it would be possible to get safer and shorter routes! That's what this is all about. The centre lot is also critical of and concerned about vehicle combinations along the roads. Yeah, that's exactly why it's smart to build four fields, not for 110 km/h anywhere, no, because it's about making sure the travel path also for the transport industry, which is on every single day. They deserve safe, good, safe roads. Everyone in Norway does. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3251	I saw that I was last on the list of speakers when I went up, so the question is whether I'll be when I go down again. Click to close the curve First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate, an interesting debate. I had hoped that the transport debate might be over in four hours this time, but we'll do the hunting game this time as well. Click to close the curve The representative Mossleth accuses us of – or characterizes or diagnoses us to have reform disease. If that means that we are implementing important reforms for the transport sector at a pace that the Central Party is not familiar with, it is a diagnosis that I can live well with, because that is the whole point. After eight years of red-green reform drought, it was actually important to make a good deal of changes in the transport sector that allow us to build roads faster, cheaper and more efficient. New roads show that this is possible. That's what we're saving on, which can be used in other parts of the trade bet. Click to close the curve We carry out tendering on the railways and reform the railways. What happens then? Well, for example, the Sørlandsbanen allows us to save up to 3 billion over a decade — compared with today’s level. kr only on that route. This means that we also release resources to strengthen the offer. And what are the companies competing for? Well, they're mainly competing for more customers. After all, the fact that several people take the railway must be the whole point of the railway operation. Click to close the curve So a little bit to the climate and the climate discussion. SV believes that we should stop building roads because it is a good climate action. It's a policy I don't understand, just because it's not the path that's the challenge in the climate and the environment, that's what's going on up the road we have to make sure to do something about. There is, of course, an electric car policy. We are now phased into electric cars in Norway at a pace that no other in the world has ever seen their hands at. People come here to look at Norwegian electric car policy. That's good. Click to close the curve In addition, there is a lot of interest in the maritime sector, for example: our ferries – a great reward for both the county and state to be offensive in purchasing policy and to ensure that we get new and environmentally friendly ferries. Click to close the curve Urban development is enormously important. Several people have to use public transport, walk or cycle to achieve our goals. Therefore, urban growth agreements are important; good urban development is important; good land-use planning is important; and our cities are modern and forward-looking. Click to close the curve All of this can be achieved because there is quite a wide gap between the big lines of this policy, and we are now implementing it at a pace that very few people in the world are doing similarly. I think we should be proud of that. We should be proud of the policy we are implementing, precisely in order to achieve our objectives in terms of both greenhouse gas emissions and not least building a forward-looking, safe and good infrastructure that our descendants can be proud of. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3270	If the representative was last on the list of speakers when he went up, he is not when he goes down. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3275	The Minister for Transport said that the opposition is against the railway reform in his last speech on the invitation to tender for the Sørlandsbanen. That's absolutely right -- we don't have any faith in this. When we see the money now spent on that railway reform, and the fragmentation and responsibilities powdering that happens, this is not our solution. So that's absolutely right: the working party and the rest of the opposition are against the so-called railway reform. Click to close the curve But, of course, we accept that there is a majority in favour of the reform and that all rail traffic, all rail passenger services in Norway, are now to be tendered. But then it has to be done properly. We register that very many – not from the opposition parties, but from professional teams and people who know contract law, competition rules and the kind of things – criticise the state for the process that has taken place in relation to the tender on the Southern Railway. Is it really true that NSB scores best on 12 out of 15 quality criteria? And so it was the British company Go-Ahead that used to. It would be both quality and price as tents, but it might seem that it is the cheapest tender that wins, anyway. Click to close the curve It may well be that if you dump the price in your tenders enough, yes, you get to drive a railway in Norway. That is the policy that is being pursued. This needs to be clarified, and we therefore welcome the statement by the Minister of Transport in the Stortinget on 18 December. And then we're going to see, based on that statement, how we're going to deal with the matter further. Click to close the curve Then I would draw attention to the solutions proposed by the Labour Party today. There are two proposals on rail and three proposals on road. That is proposal No. 13, which applies to new bridge over Glomma on rv. 22 in Fet in Akershus, it is proposal No. 14, on the E16 through the Nes and the South Odal, and it is proposal No. 15, on E6 on Helgeland, more specifically in the municipality of Grane. These proposals are designed in such a way that I hope for a broad majority of them in the Grand Duchy. I see, for example: on my good friend and colleague Nils Aage Jagstad regarding proposal No. 13, Rv. Twenty-two in Fet. It would be quite harmless to support such a proposal and show that there is a cross-political consensus that we are behind what we have said earlier. As regards proposal No: 14, I look at Tor André Johnsen. This is exactly what he and the other representatives from the Right and the Advance Party have long claimed. Now we need to find out if it's New Roads, or if it's the State Roadway that's going to go further with the planning of the E16 through the Nes and the South Odal. Click to close the curve I hope to welcome those proposals and thank you for a good debate. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3288	The representative Helge Orten has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute. He may now experience being the last speaker. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3293	I'm not going to say anything very controversial, so that might be hope. Click to close the curve I took the floor just to signal that both the Right, the Advance Party and the Left will support proposal No. 17, from the Christian People's Party and the representative of Gruvan. Click to close the curve And otherwise, thank you very much for a good debate. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3302	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3318	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Click to close the curve In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. Click to close the curve – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Click to close the
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3327	Prop. 13 L for 2018–2019, which we are debating today, concerns three legislative changes: the amendment of the spray room law, the change in the title of ‘health sister’ and the change in the name of State radiation protection. It is certainly unnecessary to say that these matters have nothing to do with each other. From now on, we need to talk about the Directorate of Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety, is politically uncontroversial and actually only signals the administrative position of the department as a directorate. Click to close the curve For gender equality reasons, there has long been a desire to mention our professions in gender neutral forms, but the change in the professional title from ‘health sister’ to ‘health nurse’ is more than a change of words. It also implies a desire for a more gender-balanced recruitment to this important field of work. The last statistics I have available show that among the health sisters we have here in the country, there are only eleven men. Click to close the curve Since 2014, the current government has contributed 387 more health oyster farms, an increase from 2,334 to 2,721. I think there is a broad consensus in the government parties – and in a total increase, I hope – that this number should be further increased. In order to do that, we also have to recruit among men. It is important for young boys to have male role models in this profession, and I hope that the small linguistic change that gets a majority here tonight can contribute in this way. Click to close the curve The change in the term ‘spray room’ to ‘user room’, from which it is to be called, is of a more substantive nature. The spray rooms, currently restricted to Bergen and Oslo, have many functions. They provide access to clean premises to users with a health-harmful injecting practice, and health professionals are available in case of acute situations. No one has yet died as a result of injecting drug use rooms. In addition, injection rooms have a significant role to play in limiting HIV and hepatitis infection. Click to close the curve The expansion for which we are now opening gives access to drugs other than heroin and to inhale the drug. I have to get back to that in more detail in a later article, but it has to be raised beyond doubt that it is part of a real-life orientation and modernisation of our care for our drug addicts, in the best interests of the weakest of our drug addicts. Click to close the curve In this round, let me stop giving a reward to the staff working in the user rooms. These are skilled professionals, who now look forward to helping their sick and drug dependent patients – for that is what they are, patients – increasingly. The arrangement we are adopting today is thus an important step in the right direction. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3342	The noise field is for me an area where it is often difficult to be completely anti-slip. Many of the intentions about prevention, help, treatment and post-protection, I think we can share across parties. In my view, the proposed changes to this matter are a step in the right direction. In this respect, it may be worth recalling that already while Jonas Gahr Støre was Minister for Health, the Workers’ Party proposed to extend the use of injection rooms. In the previous period, we even had a joint proposal with the Left around injection rooms. Click to close the curve I think there is a very small risk that it will ever be hip to use injection rooms or user rooms – fortunately for that. It's about an opportunity to help more people and help more people in a better way. Click to close the curve The working party wants these user rooms to evolve towards help centres. The user room is, as we see it, a contact point between the users and the auxiliaries where we have to take advantage of the possibility that lies there, in order to be able to help them further, whether it is there or then, with a safe use of the substances that they have, or, hopefully, that they may be motivated to take a step further and do something about their dependence. Click to close the curve For me, it is a paradox that in the matter we now have, it is said that training should be given in more gentle ways than injection. We've been running SWITCH campaigns, where you have to go from injecting to inhaling, because we know that it reduces the risk of overdoses, cities and other infectious diseases, among others. That's when the paradox strikes, that the majority, with the government parties, want to say to them after they've been taught more gentle approaches, as society says we want, that regrets, but now you get yourself done. Click to close the curve When the Workers' Party and the Left promoted the joint proposal in the previous period, the Bergen Social Agency stated on the issue of injection rooms: ‘It is a great paradox that we have to reject those who smoke heroin.’ And on the other hand, ‘What should we say to the person who has responded to the SWITCH campaign to the Health Directorate and started smoking instead of injecting? We have to say that it's very nice, but you have to go and smoke in the dorm outside here, because in here you can't be." ‘Indoor’ is in the spray room or user room, unfortunately. Click to close the curve I regret to say that it seems that the Left has lost that particular battle. That's a shame, because it's a proposal that takes us in the right direction. Click to close the curve The government parties have listened with one ear to Bergen and Oslo, who have the spray rooms we have today. The Labour Party has been busy listening with both ears, and I am promoting on the basis of the proposals in which the Labour Party is co-sponsored. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3369	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3374	It is up to the local authorities to assess whether injection rooms are to be created, or now user rooms, whether there is a proper prioritisation of resources in drug policy, or whether there are other low-threshold health services that are more useful. The evaluation has shown that it has not been possible to say whether injection rooms have had an impact on the extent of overdoses and overdose deaths, but that they have contributed to increasing the dignity of users and increasing the possibility of health follow-up and social follow-up. Click to close the curve There are today two injection rooms in Norway — one in Oslo and one in Bergen. For the centre, it is important that if such injection rooms are created, one should be able to facilitate the smoking of heroin, which is less harmful to health. Click to close the curve We now also support proposals to open up the use of other substances intended for injection, but we think it is very important that there is a delimitation of this target group. We do not support the proposal of the Labour Party and the SV to open up to those who do not inject and have such a drug abuse. Click to close the curve In addition, the Centre brings forward two proposals together with the Working Party – that user rooms should be used actively to prevent, diagnose and treat hepatitis C, and to ask the government to take action in the health service to avoid death or transmission of hepatitis C in Norway by 2025. Click to close the curve So to the proposal to change the name from the State Radiation Protection to the Directorate of Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety. The center party thinks that the name Staten Radiation Protection works very well, and we don't see the need to use resources on such a name change. Click to close the curve To the proposal that «health sister» should change the title to «health care provider»: we understand and see the need for a gender neutral perception of health sister. We record that the Norwegian Nurses' Association has adopted this new title. We'll take that for information, as it says in the setting. It's no secret for those who read the setting, that we think it's a title that reflects too little the health-promoting and preventive work that 'health-sister' stands for today. Click to close the curve With this, I will address the proposal from the Center Party. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3391	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3396	Health inequalities exist between those with drug problems and the general population. This is an inequality that we can't live with. Click to close the curve Psychiatric health and intoxication are among the governments its most important field of activity. In the coming year, we will strengthen the escalating plan for the drug field by 281 million. kr. Click to close the curve In the Right, we're busy doing even more to limit injuries, save lives and ensure the dignity of people who are addicted to drugs. The government will strengthen its efforts to combat overdose deaths. This risk is reduced by opening up several substances that give rise to overdose deaths in user rooms. At the same time, training should also be provided for transitions from injection to more gentle use for those who are heavily addicted to alcohol. Click to close the curve The government is proposing to extend the types of drug that can be used in drug injection rooms, today it only covers heroin. It is known that several drugs present a risk of overdose, and we see a change in the use of illicit drugs, including alcohol and alcohol. The use of amphetamines/methamphetamine increases. Many also use several different substances and drugs, often in very unfortunate combinations. Click to close the curve We believe it is important that those who use drugs other than heroin also get a safe place where they can get guidance, where the risk of infection and infection is reduced, and where they can get help from health professionals in the event of an overdose. Click to close the curve We need a continuous assessment of the treatments and services given in Norway. User rooms will be an important offer for heavy users. It will provide more dignity and security for some of the most vulnerable in our society. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3411	From 2001 to 2014, I worked with the heaviest group of drug addicts in the municipality of Trondheim. It was very instructive and incredibly rewarding. One of the most essential things I have from that experience is that the most important thing we who work in and for the care of drug users should focus on is to contribute to increased dignity for people who have lost – or perhaps never had – an experience of pride and self-esteem. Click to close the curve The causes of drug dependence may be many. The group is in no way uniform, but it is characterised by the fact that many have had a difficult growth marked by care failure and a school day without much mastery. When drug addiction is a fact, many people tend to be affected by unworthy life events — by abuse and humiliation. They like to go without money, without food, without housing and without focusing on their own health. Click to close the curve That is why I am pleased to see that the government is in favour of an extended system where it will no longer be called injection rooms, but user rooms, and where it will be opened for more people with drug dependence to be brought in. It is extremely important that we provide low-threshold healthcare to this group, and that we work actively to prevent unnecessary complications due to drug abuse. Click to close the curve People with addiction problems are not people who are against users of health and welfare services. It's the other way around. Those working with the target population often have to look for users in order to be in a position to provide the necessary assistance. Click to close the curve It is therefore with concern that, at the same time as opening up the system, you want to have a need to set limits on who is going to use it. Since the aim of the legislative amendment is to put an end to drug injecting and rather to drug consumption in ways that less expose them to overdose risks and spread diseases, it is not appropriate to limit the use of drug rooms to injection and training alone. A user room with health and social professionals present will never become a party room — or a drug scene. Click to close the curve As politicians, I think we should be careful to go too detailed to work when we are going to describe relief measures like this. We need to have confidence that the staff at user rooms can assess for themselves whether it is appropriate for users to have access to the room. Perhaps contact with health and social professionals at the user room is beginning to be somewhat more than a change in user habits. To close someone out because they have a positive development, seems very strange and unworthy. Click to close the curve SV is in favour of the proposals from the Workers' Party and the Centre, in addition to those we ourselves have been involved in promoting. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3428	Today, we are debating changes to the law, such as: the system of setting up user rooms for the consumption of drugs. The Christian People's Party is critical of the arrangement and is outside the majority. Click to close the curve When the Stortinget previously approved an injection room trial in Oslo, the aim was to reduce the number of overdoses and overdose deaths. The objective of reducing the number of overdoses has been removed from this legislation because the evaluation of the scheme has not been able to detect any reduction in the number of overdoses. Click to close the curve The purpose of the user scheme will be to facilitate the transition of drug addicts to more conservative methods of administration, as well as to allow drug addicts injecting drugs other than heroin to use the drug area. It is also important to monitor drug addicts in order to prevent overdose deaths. However, a review of Norwegian and international studies on drug deaths shows that acute deaths represent a smaller proportion, while the proportion of deaths occurring one to 12 hours after injecting amounts to up to 50 pst. of the deaths. Several hearings have also underlined the marginal importance of injection rooms to prevent overdose deaths. But of course, it's incredibly important to give this group dignity as well. Click to close the curve The Christian People's Party is also critical to further lower the threshold in injection rooms by facilitating a wide range of polydrug use, which in itself may increase the risk of overdoses. At the same time, the Christian People's Party would point out that there is a positive trend in health professionals to contribute more to life-saving measures when drug addicts take an overdose. We in the Christian People's Party therefore refer to our own budget, where we added 5 million. NOK extra to just this. Click to close the curve The Christian People's Party is concerned about liberalisation in the field of drugs and poses major questions by increasing resources to maintain drug use, while at the same time care, treatment, aftercare and rehabilitation are screaming for increased appropriations to help more people out of drug use. The Christian People's Party has faith in continued abstinence as the main objective of Norwegian care. Click to close the curve The Christian People's Party will draw attention to the fact that we want to support the proposal of the Centre Party, no. 5th@item: inlistbox In addition, we're outside of III and VIII. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3443	We now need to do even more to limit damage, save lives and ensure the dignity of those who are addicted to drugs. Therefore, the government has proposed to open up several types of drugs to be covered by the user room scheme, where this is part of the municipality’s offer. The scheme should cover all drugs that the user would otherwise inject, not just substances that are intended to be injected, but all substances that are being injected. Click to close the curve It is important that those who are dependent on drugs other than heroin also have a safe place to inject, where municipalities have chosen to have this as one of their services. It is therefore appropriate to extend the scope of the scheme to allow access to user rooms for those who are dependent on substances other than heroin. However, the age limit of 18 years should be maintained. The same applies to the requirement that users have to have long-term dependence and a harmful injecting practice. Non-injectors shall not have access to user rooms. The government believes that strict demarcation of the target group is important, so that it is also in line with UN drug conventions. Click to close the curve The government also proposes that users be trained in more gentle methods than injection. Staff shall provide information and advice on other routes of administration, and users wishing to test them in user rooms shall receive training from staff on how to safely perform admissions. Click to close the curve Treatment of the heaviest addicts is still among the greatest social inequalities we have in Norway. It's an inequality that we can't accept. The changes in the user room system currently being dealt with by the Storting are one of the measures to improve services in the drug field and to prevent overdose deaths. Click to close the curve The committee set up by the government to prepare for the implementation of government drug reform is an important measure. Responsibility for society’s response to the use and possession of illicit drugs for personal use shall be transferred from the justice sector to healthcare. Click to close the curve The Russian reform will change the attitudes of people who are struggling with drug addiction. It will lower the threshold to ask for help and to give help. The reform will provide better opportunities to prevent drug dependence and capture those entering addiction. Click to close the curve The reform is a shift in thinking and thinking about what a drug problem is, and not least how society should address this problem. The sample shall consider any necessary legislative changes. It may also involve changes to the user room scheme. Click to close the curve Today, the Storting also takes the position of changing the title of ‘health nurse’ to ‘health nurse’. It is an important change, which was also discussed by the case-rapporteur, in order to give a gender-neutral title that is well anchored in the professional environments and, at the same time, hopefully, better recruitment of boys for these kinds of jobs. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3463	It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3468	The changes that the government is now proposing, opening up to inject several types of drugs, are supported by the Workers' Party. It's a step in the right direction, but at the same time, we also hope that the government will work to develop user rooms towards becoming a kind of help center. Click to close the curve It is good that someone changes the name from injection rooms to user rooms. However, the government really believes that there should be just injection rooms, because it is very strange for me that training should be given in more gentle ways than injection — I believe that the Council of State supports the SWITCH campaign — but at the same time those who switch to more gentle ways of using them should be excluded from these injection rooms or user rooms. Does the Council of State paradox the fact that users who follow the call for more gentle approaches, such as smoking, are thrown out when they then respond to that call and that it can limit the possibilities to help them further? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3475	Firstly, I feel that the two municipalities that have chosen to use this scheme, Bergen and Oslo, also look at today's injection rooms, which become user rooms, as help centres. That's part of their total offer. Many of the help services are also available in other municipalities, which have chosen not to establish user rooms. There are many of the same offers, but users cannot use drugs there. A local assessment of the nature of the measure must be carried out. Click to close the curve Then I think there are some exaggerations related to training in smoking and what consequences it has. It's those who work on site, who have to make an assessment of when those who use the site, satisfy the criteria for using the site or one, and I expect it to be done in a wise and gentle way. I don't think the terms "threw out" fit in such a context. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3482	I thank you for your answer. I see at the same time that you limit the possibility of running help when groups are excluded. There may also be some problematic aspects of leaving those who work there to make the assessments of when people are to be excluded, all the time the government parties are so clear that you shouldn't be allowed to stay there after you get the training you need. I hope to that extent that flexibility, and I think it is a great responsibility to put on those who work there. Click to close the curve I referred in my post to the Social Agency in Bergen from the Left, which thought it was a great paradox to reject those who smoke. Is it the case that the Left has lost this fight in government, and why has the government not perhaps listened more to the Left in this matter? We know from the abortion question that they have positioned themselves for the Christian People's Party's entry into government. Is it such that in this field too we can risk a narrowing when the Christian People's Party is going into government, or is this an area that is not up for negotiation? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3489	It is those who work in injection rooms today who also decide who can use the injection rooms, and it is today that there are those who have a health-threatening injecting practice who can use the injection rooms. The user rooms will have the same purpose in the future, and there is also a job done today. Click to close the curve I believe that it will be a strength for the SWITCH campaign that the two municipalities that have user rooms will also be able to provide users with a purely practical training in smoking instead, and also that one who actually gets to try it out to smoke. But most sites will be followed up by the SWITCH campaign without one having that opportunity, because this offer is only in two municipalities. Click to close the curve This is how it is now, hopefully, decided to cancel this change today, and then it will come into force on 1 January. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3498	I wonder if I can get a response to what is not a harmful health injection practice. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3503	I feel that if you have an injection practice, it is harmful to health, and therefore one in the target audience for this offer and can get help in the two municipalities that have chosen to have this as part of their overall offer. Click to close the curve So I would like to stress that I believe it is important that what is somehow the range of offers for this group is a local assessment. In some municipalities this would make sense, as I agree that it might be in Bergen and Oslo, but in other municipalities there will be other measures that are more appropriate. But I think it's wise to consider it locally. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3510	The cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3515	Unlike the representative of Morland, I am concerned about who should be included in the injection rooms, not who should be excluded. Tomorrow, at 4:00 a.m. Overdosage statistics for 2017 are provided at 07:00. In 2016, 282 people died as a result of excessive drug consumption. The year before, the number was 289. Unfortunately, there is little reason to expect that the figures are falling significantly in the last year. Click to close the curve Today I visited the spray room in Oslo, the Prindsen reception centre in Hausmann Street, which was established in 2005. The system works this way: the user enters the entrance door, legitimizes and shows the dose of heroin to be injected. Then you appear in a waiting room, where you meet a health care professional for a conversation before you are introduced into one of the eight booths where you can inject the drug undisturbedly. The injection room facilities are clinically clean. They could probably need some refurbishment, but bear the mark of the tranquillity and order that suit a health offer. About 3000 users are registered in the injection room, all over 18 years of age. About 800 people regularly use the room. There should have been more, because it's outdoors, in portrooms and in solitude in private apartments that the overdoses flourish. Click to close the curve Yesterday, a total of 3,485 syringes were distributed to 247 men and 68 women. In addition, Prindsen operates field care, has a few emergency accommodation facilities and provides outreach services. From the turn of the year, users will be given the opportunity to learn another form of intoxication — inhalation — which is a much safer method. This has long been the recommendation of the authorities, as has been mentioned, but to date it has not been the case in the injection rooms. Click to close the curve Thus, in addition to the training function mentioned above, it should be possible to consume substances that are not primarily intended for injection. This is important because over a long time we have seen a change in the use of drugs. Heroin use, for example, reduced by approx. One-third. Some may experience this as a good news, but the situation is quite the opposite, because heroin has been replaced by substances that are even more likely to be under observation — synthetically manufactured preparations of a degree of potency that are cloud-high above the traditional substances that have been placed on the market. Click to close the curve Obviously, there is no one in this room who has the prerequisites to give a precise definition of when a training course ends and when it begins. The conversations I have had with staff in the spray rooms, both in Bergen and in Oslo, make me sure that the skills they possess will help to ensure that the new system will be practised in a way that it is intended to do: to save lives. Click to close the curve I have to be allowed to add, as far as the representative of Morland's posts is concerned, that the Left is not concerned with winning matters in terms of our care. We're concerned with lifesaving measures. There is no majority in this Chamber for the Labour Party's proposals, whether with or without the support of the Left. The left will not do the best for the good enemy – that is, in general – and at least not in such a serious matter as this one. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3530	Norway has a very high number of overdose victims compared with other European countries. Every year, an average of 260 people die of overdose in our country. In Vestfold we have had approx. 16–17 overdose deaths per year. Click to close the curve In Tønsberg, where I am the leader of the health and care sample, we have almost major urban challenges in terms of drug abuse, despite being a medium-sized city. Every year, on 31 August, the world’s day of overdose is marked in Tønsberg, with large numbers of drug users, relatives, specialist health services, the police, many voluntary and non-profit organisations, and not least the municipality – represented by field care, such as the United Kingdom. is an anonymous health service for drug addicts and provides first-aid courses focusing on overdose prevention. We have also participated in a research project on the distribution of Naloxon nasal spray, an antidote for overdose use of heroin, morphine and various LARs. Click to close the curve The question I have to ask myself as a politician is: what can we do to reduce the number of overdoses? The right wants to strengthen the response to overdose deaths and welcomes the changes in the injection room system that are being treated here today. These changes are positive with a view to reducing the number of overdoses at extending the target population for injecting rooms to all with long-term drug dependence and not just heroin addicts all drugs — including drugs injected alone or in combination — are included, with the exception of cannabis, such as other non-injected substances they are offered in a hygienically safe environment with health professionals with adverse injecting practices; Today’s law has clear limitations for many who could have had a positive benefit from injection rooms — or user rooms, from which it should be called from now on. It is reassuring that all changes are within the framework of the United Nations Conventions on Drugs. An evaluation by SIRUS concludes that there is good experience with injection rooms in Oslo and Bergen. As a local health politician, as well as being at Stortinget, I hope it will be up to each municipality to set up user rooms, because we want a more humane drug policy – with fewer overdose deaths as a result. Click to close the curve It is gratifying that more and more are of the opinion that serious drug abuse is primarily part of the health system and not of the justice system. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3553	For me, this is a happy day. It is a good step in the right direction to meet the perhaps most vulnerable and health-threatening patient group represented by heavy drug users. But I fully agree, as many people have said, that it is a demanding group of patients. A great deal of what I worked with in the previous period is precisely based on the experience gained by the City Council in Bergen. First it was Social Agency Dag Inge Ulstein from the Christian People's Party. Then it was followed up by Erlend Horn, who today is Social Agency in Bergen. He represents Left. Their starting point was that this patient group is the first of the last decades we've really seen. We have tried different measures. These are the sickest of the sick. According to the prioritisation message, they have to be given priority, so we have to do what we can to meet them as best we can. Click to close the curve The law has not been adapted to this group, for most are polydrug users. They're using what they get, and it's completely impossible for health professionals to sort out the different means they've been using, or come into dialogue with them. What's important is that they get that dignity by being clinically clean around where they live, plus that you get the opportunity to have a conversation with them, and maybe they're motivated to try to change their lives and get into more responsible treatment frameworks. It's one of the most important things, and it's not least reducing infection that's also absolutely crucial. Click to close the curve I live in that part of town where I pass the Straight House, and have seen the groups standing outside in the rain – we have had a rain record in Bergen this fall – or then they stay under the Puddefjord Bridge to set a shot. It's not good for the people who are exposed to it, but it's also not good for the neighborhood, who feel the fear of a group of people who have a behavior that might affect those who find it challenging to visit this group. They're acting in a way that's not lucky either. Based on the patient group, we should respond to them, provide them with local flexibility – primarily for the benefit of the health professionals and the patient group, but also for the care of the neighborhood and to reduce the levels of conflict that we have locally. Click to close the curve It's a happy day. It's a step in the right direction, but remember, it's patient groups and not just numbers! Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3565	The representative Carl-Erik Grimstad from the Left made a very committed post where it could seem as if I was almost the main opponent. I just want to stress that I think that Carl-Erik Grimstad and I very much agree on a lot of what this matter is about. Click to close the curve I would once again stress that this is an important step in the right direction. Grimstad talks about him being concerned about who to include, not who to exclude. I'm busy with those that are now to be included, but it must also be allowed to say that here there are some who are still to be excluded, and that it may have some unfortunate pages. But for the most part, the fact that you now include more is very positive, and something that both Bergen and Oslo have wanted for a long time. Click to close the curve So Grimstad referred to overdose statistics, and it clearly shows that we still have a long way to go. When we had 282 drugrelated deaths in 2016, there are actually 282 for many. I think the grips that are now doing can help reduce that number. That's not the answer in itself, or alone, but we've had other things, among other things. on enhanced post-protection, for which the opposition together made proposals, and we are going to have a drug reform that I hope and believe will be able to deliver results. Hopefully, the sum of this is going to be that we're giving a better offer and better help to the very most vulnerable addicts in our society. Click to close the curve This is not primarily about winning things or not. It's not about the best being the second best enemy. I believe that there can be no contradiction in pointing out that there are some weaknesses in excluding those who have gone over to more gentle ways, while at the same time commending the grips that are now being done. In particular, if you want to follow-up with good help, it may be unfortunate — if you have established a dialogue with someone in that group, if they have progressed and reduced the risk of overdose deaths — that in the next round they may be at risk of being rejected from their user rooms. Click to close the curve So it's also like this, like, for example. Ruth Grung was concerned that many people have polydrug use, and it can also make it more complicated if those who work at these user rooms are going to consider who should be rejected and not, because there is not necessarily just one type of use they have. That is why we in the Labour Party believe that the proposal for decisions now on the table had become even better with our proposals. I guess I have a belief that the left does not entirely disagree with us in that. I am pleased with the victories left possibly got in this matter, and then, in my view, there is still something more to go on, first of all to the best for the users. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3587	I was called engaged; I shall continue to agree as far as possible in this room. Click to close the curve The reason I used a little voice on this was because I'm more concerned about others who have gone on a click than the Left, to say it that way, and I'm very happy with the result of the proposition and the setting and the vote we're going to do here today. I have, as mentioned, been to the Prince of Hausmannsgate, and I have also been to the Nursing Association. It was a joy among the employees both places, and I am very happy that we can make such decisions. Click to close the curve So a little explanation of vote on the proposal of the Central Party: evaluation is always good, and it should just be lacking that we should not evaluate a system like this, which is quite radical. But the reason why I can't support this is that over the next five years, we're going to see a larger change in this drug field than we've seen in the previous 50 years. And it's going to be very difficult for me to drop a provision today that we're going to evaluate something in five years that might look completely different quantitatively and qualitatively than today. That is the only reason for it – to the representative Toppe. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3596	Actually, I am a little surprised that this matter is not unanimous in Stortinget, and I do not fully understand the assessments made by the Christian People's Party. Because it's not that drug addiction disappears if you close your eyes to that problem, or that addiction changes by itself because you have faith in abstinence. There won't be any more people injecting because we're facilitating that this can be done safely. This is not the liberalisation of drug policy. There is no choice between drug treatment or injection rooms. This is absolutely necessary health care, and no one in need of the scheme should be excluded from it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3601	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3617	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for the government. Click to close the curve In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given to the members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the distribution of speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Click to close the curve - It's a note. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3626	On behalf of the Health and Care Committee, I would like to present the matter of preventing the centralisation of the office structure of the Health Economic Management, also known as Helfo, originally promoted as a representative of the Central Party representatives. Click to close the curve A Joint Committee is committed to the proper consideration of its staff in the context of reorganisation processes in the country. Furthermore, the Committee believes that the digitisation of public enterprises should facilitate the decentralisation of state jobs. The Committee would stress the importance of Helfo also taking these considerations into account in its ongoing reorganisation process. Click to close the curve The working party is not satisfied with the way in which the government has followed up this matter. In the context of the 2018 state budget, the majority of the population, at the opposition and the Christian People's Party, made the following majority comment in relation to the changes in Helfo's office structure: ‘The majority consider these to be important State jobs which must not be centralised.’ Equally, the government continued to lay down the Helfo workplaces in Lenvik, Harstad, Beiarn, Nærøy, Verdal, Gloppen, Bergen, Voss, Kristiansand, Riser, Kongsberg, Eidsvoll, Wågå and Oslo. Orkdal and Brumunddal follow in the next round. Only the churches were spared, after signals from the Stortinget. The working party therefore believes that the government is in breach of the Stortinget's intention to deal with this matter, as it was said that the reorganisation process in Helfo would not be centralising. Click to close the curve Many of the government's adopted closures affect smaller places where any government job has a high value for the labour market. These municipalities can now thank the government and the Christian People's Party, which in this case is with the government, for the closure of jobs and the centralisation that is now being carried out. In addition, Helfo’s services are highly digitised and without public reception, which should make these types of jobs well suited to a decentralised organisation. Click to close the curve It may also be worth noting that Helfo’s own employees have been critical of the process. They state: ‘NTL Helfo believes that the proposal for the closure of offices should be reconsidered because it is perceived to be too far-reaching for a large part of our members.’ The Labour Party, together with SV, has made a proposal asking the government to follow up the majority remark in the state budget position last year to ensure a more decentralised structure in Helfo. Unfortunately, this does not get a majority today, but at least gives a clear signal that we believe that even the smaller communities deserve their share of state jobs, and that digitisation is a means of delivering good services to the inhabitants – even if one is in Voss or in Risør. Click to close the curve With this, I would like to address the proposal of the Labour Party. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3651	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has drawn up the proposal he referred to. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3656	I have great respect for the employees who fear their jobs. At the same time, we don't get past the fact that, as a society, we have to move our hands away from administration and beyond to all the tasks to be carried out in the health care system. We need more warm hands in health care where patients are. Increased digitisation is an important way to go, so that as a country, we can transfer resources and employees to the areas we know will lack it in the future. We need more warm hands where patients are, and fewer hands in areas that can be replaced by digital tools. Click to close the curve Helfo has carried out thorough assessments of future office structures, the need for investment and the need to further develop digital services. The Government's proposal to change the office structure is important for Helfo to carry out the necessary renewal of the digital services. Helfo is an organisation that has extensive contact with a number of users. Treatments such as: fixed, suppliers and service providers — and individuals — through individual reimbursement of their costs, inter alia. Medicines, dental and health services abroad — all receive compensation from the population through Helfo. In addition, Helfo provides financial compensation to healthcare professionals outside hospitals, such as general practitioners, medical specialists, pharmacies, psychologists and physiotherapists. Click to close the curve It is important that users’ needs are put at the centre, while Helfo implements the necessary innovations. Services shall be experienced as a whole and in a coherent manner. Helfo is experiencing an increasing number of challenging tasks that require a more complex competence. On the one hand, digitisation will lead to a reduction in the need for employees, while at the same time the remaining complex tasks will require health, legal, economic and administrative competence. In addition, investment in ICT will increase the need for expertise in the development and operation of digital solutions. Click to close the curve If Helfo is to succeed in developing good digital services, they must have access to a wide range of competences. Today’s office structure with 22 offices makes it difficult to acquire the right skills, and it is difficult to operate the offices sufficiently rationally – not least since 8 of the 22 offices have fewer than five employees. The centre party fears centralization. There is reason to recall that the offices in Oslo, Bergen and Kristiansand are among those proposed. Click to close the curve In order to take care of today's and tomorrow's societal tasks, Helfo needs to have an office structure with fewer and larger trade unions. The reorganization is primarily about equiping Helfo for future tasks and challenges by digitising their routine tasks. This will provide better services for patients and treatment providers, providing a more efficient public sector. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3669	The central party today proposes to ask the government to review Helfo’s office structure, based on real assessments of efficiency gains, progress in digitisation, the risk of loss of experience, government guidelines on the location of government jobs and the guidance from Stortinget, as expressed in a plural note in the 2018 state budget recommendation. We suggest that the government maintain the current office structure in Helfo until such a case has been dealt with by Stortinget. Click to close the curve In this matter, the government again shows contempt for the will of the Great Government, and the Christian People's Party, which is negotiating a budget, makes it easy for them to do so. As a result, Helfo’s offices in Oslo, Bergen, Kristiansand, Voss, Eidsvoll, Kongsberg, Riser, Harstad, Gloppen, Waågå, Verdal, Nærøy, Beiarn, Lenvik, later on Orkdal and Brummunddal, are closed. Click to close the curve The central party believes that the entire distribution on which Helfo is based, and on which the government relies, is problematic and based on false premise. For example, Helfo writes in the paper that it is very difficult to recruit skills in office places that are not close to a large and attractive labour market, and that office spaces should preferably be available at an airport, i.e. Voss will not be large enough for the state and Helfo. It is an unheard of argument and is not a threat. Click to close the curve Voss Hospital was also a hospital that this government in 2015 thought was not life law. That was wrong, because at Voss they can recruit skilled professionals, both in health and in Helfo, but then they have to have a lease that they actually want well. They have it in Voss Hospital, because they have a local director, but they don't have it in Helfo. It also doesn't have the Helfo added in the 16 other places to be added. Click to close the curve The fact that Helfo has to implement such a centralisation policy without being stopped shows what kind of government we have, and why it should be replaced. It is also a great paradox that Helfo, who operates largely digitised and without public reception, is centralised, because it was precisely such competence workplaces that are suitable for decentralised organisation. Click to close the curve The government's decision will severely affect many district municipalities, but also the closure of the three departments in Oslo, which Helfo himself writes, will pose a risk of loss of competence, is very problematic. Click to close the curve No credible evidence has been provided for why Helfo has to shed the majority of its offices and competence environment, and they have seen unrealistic targets for the benefits of co-location. Click to close the curve With that, I propose the proposal of the Central Party in this matter. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3688	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she referred to. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3693	As an alternate to Stortinget, I must say that I am a little surprised that the government has not followed up a majority comment on this matter of reorganization of Helfo. I thought it was something you could expect. Click to close the curve We in SV believe that the government violates Stortinget's intention to deal with the matter, where it was said that the reorganisation of Helfo would not be centralizing. Helfo’s services are highly digitised and without public reception, and it should make these types of jobs well suited to a decentralised organisation, which can help to secure badly needed jobs in the districts. Click to close the curve We agree with the proposal that we ourselves have promoted together with the Labour Party. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3702	I am pleased that the majority of the committee has agreed that it is the government's responsibility to deal with issues related to the office structure in Helfo. Helfo users expect new and better digital solutions. Today's solution is inappropriate and is an inheritance from the time Helfo was part of Nav – and before we got good digital solutions to replace manual services. Digitalisation means that Helfo needs new skills and strong professional environments, especially in ICT. Offices should therefore be located in places that ensure the recruitment of good competence. Click to close the curve I believe that a future structure of offices in Fredrikstad, Tønsberg, Sola, Ørsta and Mo in Rana and a continuation of the office in Kirkenes provide a good regional balance. The closure of the office in Oslo involves the simultaneous relocation of about 68 jobs, while the offices are located in large cities such as Bergen and Kristiansand. The development of digital solutions means that there will be no need for the same number of offices and the same number of employees as today. I understand that the conversion will be negative for the employees affected, but also for the municipalities that lose some jobs. By investing in the largest offices, the number of persons directly affected by new office structures is limited, with the exception of the office in Oslo. Click to close the curve Digitisation of services for Helfo — in combination with a new and better office structure — requires us to expect that the number of employees over time will be reduced by 90–100 yearly jobs on a national basis. This means that today’s small and medium-sized offices would, in any case, be faced with a demanding development, with the downsizing and weakening of professional environments and with the closure of offices as the only realistic option. For the last four years, two offices have been closed, in Tromsø and in West Vågøy. Click to close the curve The government believes that it is better with a planned and managed conversion of the office structure in Helfo. I believe that Helfo has carried out thorough investigations, where the employees have been involved. A new office structure has also been assessed according to national guidelines on the location of state jobs and government service production. Click to close the curve We're facing a demanding conversion process, and this is going to be a guided conversion, which happens over five years. Employees affected shall be provided according to the applicable legal and contractual framework and in accordance with the country’s guidelines on good personnel policy in the event of conversion processes. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3715	It's going to be line change. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3720	Let me first clarify that the Workers' Party does not say that everything should be just like it has been before. Of course, we should take the effects of digitisation and efficiencies into account also in the case of Helfo. At the same time, state jobs mean a lot to the smallest places and should benefit the whole country. When digitisation and the fact that you don't have an audience reception facilitate this, it's hard for me to understand why the government hasn't followed it up to a greater extent. Click to close the curve Last year, the majority gave a clear signal that the process should not be centralizing. Nevertheless, the Council of State chose only to maintain the office in Kirkenes after that decision. How does the Council of States even think he has managed to follow up this majority remark? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3728	I believe the comment has been followed up, but I also have a clear view that when it comes to determining the office structure in Helfo, it is a matter of government and me as the Council of State. Click to close the curve So this has to be done in a proper and proper way, not least in cooperation with employees' organisations. Helfo is faced with a strong change due to digitisation, where a person must reduce significantly. Then it is wise that this should be done in due course. However, digitisation will also require the professional communities that will continue to work on this issue to have a high level of competence in ICT. This is why we have chosen to concentrate on cities and places that are usually not considered centralising in Norway and have closed down the largest office in Oslo. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3735	I thank you for your answer. Click to close the curve I also noticed that in my post the Council of State talked about having invested in the largest offices minus Oslo. That means that in this case, almost all of the smallest places have lost, i.e. where a workplace means the most. You could imagine that you had chosen some of these places and built them up, instead of just ironing them with a pen stroke. Click to close the curve Governments also say something about cooperation with employees’ organisations. It is of course important, but then perhaps the Council of State should have also taken into account that employees are just asking for a review of the process because they think it is far too extensive. It had given the opportunity to spare at least a few more of the smaller places and perhaps also given several commuter distances for any changes to the office structure. Click to close the curve My question to the Council of State is: When we now see the Helfo process, what can we expect from future reorganisation processes? Will the Council of State place greater emphasis on the importance of decentralisation for the smaller areas around the country? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3746	I think it is precisely these conditions that are well taken care of in this work. One could of course have chosen to say that we build down the office in Mo in Rana and in Ørsta instead, and then we build up the office in Voss or in Bergen, but I don't think the situation had been any different from this particular discussion. Of course, it would have been different for those who live right there. I think it's Helfo who has the best assumptions to assess which of these professional environments and offices is most appropriate to build on. That is why I have mainly followed the recommendations that have come through the processes that have been in Helfo in this area. Click to close the curve We have chosen to build a decentralised model by, among other things. the closure of the office in Oslo, the relocation of 68 jobs and the strengthening of regional offices in all parts of the country, as a solution. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3753	State Council Höie has sent an 18-page letter of reply to the committee. It's pretty rare. This suggests that the Council of State sees it as necessary to settle the central party's decentralisation policy, and the Council of State states in the letter: ‘The digitisation and automation of past tasks and the delivery of new tasks impose new requirements.’ Further: ‘Help must be located in locations that ensure access to all relevant competences.’ And on the other hand, ‘New complex competences with a high level of digital competence are expected to be particularly sought in the future, which means that the quality of the environment will become crucial.’ The stance of the Government and the Council of State will be crucial for young people finding well-paid government-funded jobs in the future. My question is: can the Council of State define which qualities of the environment will become crucial in the future? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3773	This government is using very active relocation policies for state jobs, and we are using the guidelines that have been adopted, relating to the choice of locations. One of the main criteria is inter alia: looking at the region’s coverage of state jobs today to build strong environments of competence outside Oslo. Click to close the curve When I choose to respond comprehensively to this, it is simply because this is the result of a comprehensive process in Helfo, in the way that this kind of conversion process is going to take place. I found it right to inform the Storting about it. That information didn't make any impression on the Center Party, it's going to be up to the Center Party. I am at any time quite ready to settle with the so-called district policy of the Central Party. The centre party once proposed that a centralisation price be determined. Had it been a price for centralisation in Norway, it should have gone to the Center Party. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3780	I notice that the council says things that we've heard a hundred times before. What was my question is based on what is stated in the letter to the Council of State, where he writes that it means that ‘the quality of the environment will be decisive’. And it goes on to say in the letters of the Council of State: ‘Area should furthermore have qualities related to working and business life that create conditions for relevant cooperation for learning, innovation and development.’;» Everywhere, such qualities – for learning, innovation and development. I would then like to ask the question: What places does the Council of State think has ‘conditions for relevant cooperation for learning, innovation and development?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3793	It will be assessed on a case-by-case basis, in concrete terms. On the basis of the activity to be located, an opportunity for recruitment assesses the importance it has for the community – it is also in the country’s guidelines for the location of state jobs, which this government follows very actively, significantly more actively than when the centre party itself put the opportunity to do so – with a significant relocation of state jobs, and not least also a very conscious attitude towards the creation of state jobs outside Oslo. A strong environment of competence outside the capital is being built to contribute to regional development, with the possibility for high-skilled people to live throughout the country, and not least to create attractive labour markets throughout the country. That's why this is an important part of the Right Policy, too, because we believe in all of Norway. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3798	Finally, we've got a technology that means that the distance costs are gone. We're in a situation where we have young people all over the country taking higher education. It thrives with master degrees from Vadsø to Halden. It's not a competence thing. It is a stable labour force; it is a skilled labour force; it is a labour force with little sick leave; the opportunities lie there. And when I take hold of and quote from the Council of State's letters, the Council of State will not answer. There are abstract quotes to which reference is made, which can be interpreted wherever you want. And when I ask which places don't have learning, innovation and development, the Council of State can't get up with a single vital place in Norway. Is it e.g. such relations on the Geilo, to ask the Council of State specifically? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3803	That's for sure, and if Helfo had an environment to build on on the Geilo in this area, which could contribute to recruiting and building up around this, it would probably also have been considered a place. But I don't understand what the Central Party has against Fredrikstad, Ørsta, Mo in Rana, Sola and Tønsberg, which are the places chosen, as well as the office in the Churches in this context. These are good places that need these state jobs, and that are now being strengthened, and those who work there know that here they have a safe job for the future, a good development within an area. This is part of the Helfo conversion. I don't understand why the Center Party has so much against these places, and that these shouldn't have the opportunity that this conversion gives. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3808	Then the cord shift is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3813	If we are to ensure that people can live, work and live a good life throughout Norway, there must be a diversity of jobs around Norway. One must ensure that there are well-accessible skills jobs and one must contribute to the decentralisation of state jobs. Click to close the curve Unfortunately, the majority of today’s people have seen massive centralisation of jobs in areas by region. One has seen it within municipalities, one has seen it within regions, one has seen it within the police, and now it's about the office structure in Helfo. Click to close the curve It is almost impossible to say more clearly than in the majority opinion on which the budget was based last year, when the majority of the House of Commons said: ‘The majority consider these to be important State jobs which must not be centralised.’ There are important state jobs that need not be centralised – what does that mean? That means that you don't have to put them together in fewer and larger units and centralize them. Despite this, the government continues its efforts to centralise Norway through a massive centralisation and closure of the Helfo office, from 22, as it is today, to 6 offices, to which it is planned to go down. Click to close the curve I hear the council here saying that he follows the recommendations of Helfo in the process. Yes, that is clearly what the Council of State does – at least it does not follow the expression of the majority of the Stortinge. Click to close the curve Offices that today have incredibly important skills jobs in the communities in which they are located, for example also in my own home country, Akershus, are being laid down. There is a well-functioning, well-run office with 13 employees – otherwise also near an airport, if that's what should be the argument for or against the office. These are important skills jobs in rural areas, but the office is also a well-functioning and – in a Helfo context – a relatively large office. Even that office shall be centralised and laid down. Click to close the curve We need to have a different development, one in which just a decentralized and new technologies are being used to get skills jobs around the whole of Norway. I notice that a joint committee is just saying that, that one is going to use new technology to decentralize jobs. But for the government parties, it's obviously just party speeches. For us in the Center Party, it also means something concrete in practical politics. Therefore, it is important to come back with a case that adds up to a completely different development of the office structure in Helfo. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3834	When the government parties point out that Helfo has to have an office structure with fewer and larger professional environments in order to do the job, it is almost so I am tempted to use the father-in-law's expression: this is wise! But I'm going to use a more parliamentary expression and say that this argument seems to be substituting. Increased digitisation should, on the contrary, make it easier to have a decentralised, good professional environment, and Helfo is well suited for decentralised organisation. Click to close the curve My neighboring municipality, Beiarn, has a Helfo office with great staff. They relieve the rest of Helfo in special areas, and they get the job done. Unfortunately, the number of jobs in the Helfo office in Beiarn has been reduced in recent years. There are simply no new people employed, and the office has gone through what I would call a quiet centralization. With the closure of Helfo in Beiarn, almost all state jobs have disappeared from that municipality. Now there's only Nav left, but also Nav works to centralize the services away from people in smaller municipalities. Click to close the curve The government is also working hard to get fewer days of mail, and Telenor no longer has any social responsibility – they're just going to build lines where it's profitable, the rest people have to pay for themselves or do good. Click to close the curve Back to Helfo: This type of job is gold worth to people in smaller municipalities, who need a varied labour market. The centralisation of Helfo is helping to build up under this government’s job number one, namely centralising Norway. I'm very proud to want something other than this government. I am proud that the Central Party is the strongest counterweight to the government's centralisation policy. Click to close the curve Then I must deeply regret to all those who lose their jobs, but the Center Party did its best to avoid the closure of these jobs. It's unnecessary to put them down. Remember that at the 2019 elections. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3847	The center party is for roots and wings, for anchoring and innovation and said for new technology that can make the job more efficient. Digitalisation can bring great productivity gains, but one has to move forward at a speed that allows people to meet their needs, and so that one feels that one is with, both those who have theoretical education and those who do not — as a general statement. Click to close the curve What is the problem today, however, is that the future of the government for the location of jobs in this area needs to be changed. As I said, there has never been a better basis for developing jobs outside the cities – with today's technology and with well-trained youth across the country, who want to apply back. We have experience with the Kartverket in Ullensvang, an excellent example that it works very well, and where there are far more applicants than there are available jobs. Click to close the curve We're here for work that's digitized and without public reception. It is well suited for just decentralised jobs, but the Council of State argues in principle in its long letter to the Storting that these types of jobs must have a very special environment. One must have an environment where one can meet all the need. There's no doubt that what the council here says is that you have to have it in bigger places all over the country. One must have it in bigger places than where it is today. For Buskeruds he says that no, we don't have the opportunity to have it at Kongsberg, we have to have it in Tønsberg, where there is now a whole city with state jobs. It is clear that young people are looking to where they are well paid, the state jobs are coming, and they are looking for it. It reinforces centralisation within a sector that could have just been decentralised. We see the same thing at Nav Kontaktsenter. It's a personal experience to call them, and I recommend that everyone do that. I have done so today, and I sat on the phone for 20 minutes before I found out what was right for the person. That's how it works. Click to close the curve But back to Kongsberg, there's talk of surroundings. We have a number of places in Norway with a private business, with an environment that really makes for a dynamic development. Kongsberg is one of those places. We have many such places in Buskerud that could fill this role, but the problem is the ideology of the Council of State, which adds to a powerful centralization. I recommend everyone to read the letter. It's pretty shell-setting for what's going on. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3858	The reality of Helfo is that in some areas they have had great challenges in delivering within deadlines. They're well up and going today, but they've had great challenges. What you do now is you add a structural change that makes it impossible, in reality – at least in my area – to think about commuting for them to add. With another reorganization, one could have set up a race where they had added possibilities to commute, and one could have retained competence. Click to close the curve The left was one of the largest forwarders. They're talking about digitisation that's going to rock us – then we can decentralize, then we can move the workplaces out and have a decentralised structure. Here's a good example of the opposite. If either Bergen or Voss had been kept, they could actually have commuted. So the whole region should be without an office. With the offices that are to be maintained, make it absolutely impossible for them to be added. It's a paradox if we're going to have a reorganization that makes Helfo tired of delivering the services they're actually going to deliver. Here one could combine it, a strong and good Helfo, and one could keep the last jobs at the same time. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3865	I understood the Council of State so in line exchange that the government had invested in building an office in all parts of the country. Well, in that case I can tell you that in Agder there is not a single office left after this centralization of the government. It also makes commuting much harder. Both the Eastern Agder Regional Council and the Risør Municipality have pointed out that there are opportunities for Agder to develop Riser further. We are in the middle of a county merger where one of the most demanding things is about jobs. Here, the state council could have contributed positively, but he chooses not to do so. Click to close the curve So it's a little strange to me that Höie presents it as a contrast – that if you want to keep one office, you have to build another. In my view, there should be room for more. I have nothing against the places that have been chosen, I have more against that few are the chosen ones, as it probably says in the writing. Click to close the curve I also have a challenge with Höie's argument, because when I've heard Höie here during the debate, it's almost like places that Harstad, Verdal, Voss or Riser don't do, that they don't meet the criteria that the government has set. In that case, it's very serious, because it means that we don't get into other contexts either, according to the government's criteria. It's a shame, because I want us to develop all parts of our country, and then it's so that these places do, in my view. Click to close the curve The Storting called out a warning last year about the centralization in Helfo. I expected the government to have more respect for that decision. One office was what they signed out with in the aftertaste – Kirkenes. I do not believe that absolutely everything should be like today when we come to 2020 or 2025. I could have accepted that they had found some kind of intermediate solution -- let's call it -- but that's not what the government has chosen to do. Click to close the curve Then I must say that I think it is a bit of a shame that the Christian People's Party is completely absent in this debate today. They were, after all, decisive for the majority opinion we received last year, and then the question is, was this what they meant by the remark they were part of last year, or is the silence now from the Christian People's Party a result of forthcoming government negotiations that put a strongly restrictive hand over the party today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3878	First of all, I do not accept the presentation of the government's policy on which the Central Party is trying. Since 2013, one has facilitated the relocation or establishment of 800 State jobs outside the capital. A regional reform is now taking place, which is a shift of power and state authority to local elected representatives. We have an active policy precisely to build up national environments of competence in order to make use of education, skills, throughout Norway. Click to close the curve Digitalisation involves the possibility of having decentralised jobs, but digitisation also means that a good deal of manual work becomes digital. Helfo is facing downfalls in this area with between 90 and 100 jobs. Then it will necessarily require a change in the structure that you have today. Something else is not possible. Then it makes sense that that change is planned, predictable and in a good process with the employees. Click to close the curve Then I cannot understand how a further bet on Ørsta, Mo in Rana, Fredrikstad, Tønsberg and Sola can be made as a centralisation. On the contrary, it is just building up important skills jobs in the districts. I have great respect for the fact that the representative from Buskerud had wanted Kongsberg instead of Tønsberg, that the representative from Hordaland had wanted Voss instead of Ørsta, and that the representative from Agder had wanted Riser instead of Sola. That's the way it is, but at some point a conclusion has to be drawn, and in this context it became these places that got to keep and further develop the state workplaces. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3887	There will be a serious simplification when the council tries to put it up one place against the other. The centre party has been clear this year, we were there last year, and we believe that this whole thing is too centralization – a centralization that is not justified, that is not explained, and where a user of digitisation as a pretext for implementing a centralisation policy, one that goes from 20 offices down to 6. Then we can't stand here and discuss whether we, for example. will set up Tønsberg against Voss. We must not bring the debate down to such a level. Click to close the curve There can also be no question about what we have against the places that the government wants to have an office. I can ask the question back: What does the Council of State Höie have against Voss, Eidsvoll, Kongsberg, Riser and all the other twelve places that lose their state jobs? Click to close the curve It's okay enough that the government has a policy to get out government jobs, but we've never seen the accounting for the opposite – except that we're seeing a tab of this today, where a attracts government jobs from the districts, and it's for no good reason. Click to close the curve I want to say the same thing as the Labour Party representative: it is strange that the Christian People's Party does not take the floor here today, because it is in vain for all those who create a plurality for this matter today. And to get back to what's at the heart of the matter: Helfo's distribution, on which the government relies, has several weaknesses. It is similar to centralisation processes in other parts of public administration under this government. Click to close the curve So to what the representative Per Olaf Lundteg took up in the lines: it's very special to read what is the government's argument for which places Helfo has chosen. They have no intention of proposing when they assume that the Helfo offices must be located in a ‘large and attractive labour market’ where one has a working and business life that ‘constitutes conditions for relevant cooperation for learning, innovation and development’ and where there should be airport, rail and public transport. It's almost so I can't believe what I'm reading, and that's one of the reasons why this whole thing has to go back on the table of the Council of State – and preferably the table of another Council of State, where one has a different will to make a good transition in Helfo, not one that is characterized by centralization. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3900	A government council that accepts the Central Party's story of centralisation is the Minister of State. The Minister of Local Affairs has been out in the last month saying that the districts need to wake up. There are, of course, blood-red figures for population development in a number of municipalities. Click to close the curve Yeah, that's right. And the distribution of the state workplaces contributes to these blood red numbers. When we get an overview of the distribution of government jobs when this government joined, and today, we see that state jobs run just like water: they run to the places that the government prioritizes – and that in a situation when we have new technology that takes away the distance costs, where we have a high theoretical education of youth across the country that we have never had before, and where we have experience that this workforce is to the degrees of both competent, reliable and industrious and not at home in connection with disease. I'm saying it so strongly. Click to close the curve It is quite obvious that digitisation and automation lead to major changes, and I would like to say on behalf of the Centre Party that we do not want everything to be like today – on the contrary. Obviously, we're used to what's living in society, and everything that's living is changing. It's just dead things standing perfectly still. Click to close the curve The center party is moving, and what's the movement is that we now have to get a decentralization. We don't just have to stop centralization – no, we need a decentralization. Now we're going to have a policy that allows you to build up professional environments in places that have a weak nutrient base, to interact with the private, so that you can get attractive jobs. Click to close the curve The state has a key role to play. There are no jobs that are more attractive than jobs in the state sector around Norway. Click to close the curve Therefore, my post, which goes on the whole ideology that lies in the premise of the Council of State in his 18-page letter, saying that these premises should be used in the context of digitisation and automation. So the letter is about something far more than Helfo, it's a guideline on how the state acts. It shows that there is a need for a major discussion: centralisation with Right or Decentralisation with the Centre Party. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3915	I must be allowed to start by saying that I am now speaking as a Westfolding. Tønsberg is my nearest town. Click to close the curve So I wonder: is there no limit to the inconsistent attitude of the Centre Party towards the relocation of state jobs? The Councils of State mentioned 800. Is there any willingness at all to realise that technological development and efficiency are necessary in order to obtain more from limited resources? I am also greatly surprised that the old centralisation party, the Workers' Party, is right about this. Click to close the curve Let me make it clear: Helfo is a business that requires continuous reorganization as technological developments take place. It requires vital jobs with a minimum number of employees. Click to close the curve Tønsberg and Vestfold are no extension of Drammenswegen. Tønsberg and Vestfold, and Fredrikstad for that matter – it is the relocation of state jobs, it is decentralisation. The Center Party doesn't understand this? This is a happy day in Tønsberg! Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3926	I have to thank you for calling for the Christian People's Party, because I want to ask a question back: why do we have Helfo? For who? We have Helfo to facilitate action for people who need them, first and foremost. These measures are now being given digitally. One assumes a report that Helfo himself has used to provide better services to people. They need fewer people because they've digitized. Click to close the curve What is the purpose of Helfo? Well, it's serving the people. We need every penny within the Norwegian health care system. When Helfo says they need fewer people for that service, I think it's very special that we ask that question here if that money is needed elsewhere. Click to close the curve I understand the question of jobs, but I think we sometimes have to ask the question: we have just taken some digital grip to get better services. It gets a result, and we have the opportunity to put those jobs into the districts and at the same time have more money in the purse to spend on other things. Then it becomes a question for me that we can't take that discussion now, but only discuss whether it's 20 or 6 offices. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3935	This was a rather strange debate to listen to. The fact that the Council of State has had to use a letter of response of the extent to which he has felt compelled to respond to what has been signed and the opinion of several representatives in promoting the proposal for a representative, namely that there has not been a good and comprehensive review of the structure of Helfo, suggests that we have actually taken a nerve. Click to close the curve I am surprised by the statements made by some representatives that the Central Party should not be a supporter of efficiency and red tape. Our concern is that in this case it may seem that the country's own guidelines have not been followed, and neither has it been possible to use the possibility of decentralising the jobs that this is about, the competence that this is about. They are crucial in the local settings where they are located, and it would be important that they still had the opportunity to be there. In the spirit of digitization, it should be assumed that there were, in fact, opportunities to reinforce these decentralised offices. Click to close the curve Then I register that you show that you will have challenges with competence and recruitment. It's also going to move to other areas. By reducing an already marginal labour market for high-skilled jobs, this could be achieved in other areas. Is it the government's view, then, that we should continue to centralise all other areas, or should we actively pursue counter-cyclical policies? Here you have the opportunity, but you choose not to take advantage of it. Click to close the curve I can't believe that the Center Party is inconsistent in its position on this issue. We've been clear that we want to move out the jobs that can be moved out. We've been clear that we want to use digitisation to achieve those goals. So here we have another case on the table where this is possible to achieve if you have a government that wants to and shows the willingness to achieve those objectives, but that chooses not to do so. The proposal of the centre party is to take one step back – we are asking for an overall review. So you choose not to think about it, and it's very regrettable. Click to close the curve I have noticed some of the elements in the Council's letter of reply, and I think it is especially that the Department of People, Find Reason to Believe, etc., when describing our concerns in the proposal for a representative. That means you don't have a good professional investigation behind the way you put this process in place. That also shows the debate here today. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3948	I'm a little surprised at the debate, I just have to be allowed to say it. In the last period, I was a driver – and I am going to be further – to move out state jobs, not least the Council of State knows very well. But I also have some memory. During the eight years of red-green government, one was able to move out the Veterinary College to Ås. That's what you did. Click to close the curve If you want to tell me what we were able to do in the last period, I can start by mentioning the Peace Corps of Fjords in Sogn and Fjordane, parts of the Agriculture Directorate of Steinkjer, etc. This has not been discussed by the Red-Greens, nor by the Center Party, nor has it been done. You want so many times, but you often just make the diagnosis. Every time the Central Party has had the opportunity, one has not succeeded, with one exception: moving the Veterinary Institute three miles. It's the Center Party's big relocating party. You make yourself very high and dark. In the last period, we said that if we are to achieve this, we need to invest more in regional centres. It is clear that there must be competence. We need to recruit skills for state competence workplaces, and that's exactly what the Center Party lacks the willingness to talk about. I don't understand. I understand, of course, that we would like to be more people in the countryside, I come from one of them myself. But it takes basic competence if we're to serve something. Click to close the curve Earlier today, during the nutrition debate, the head of the committee, Geir Pollestad, when I challenged him that the Center Party had done a schematic cut of consultant assistance, which of course will also go beyond the districts, said that the Center Party was of course in favour of a red tape. But as the debate goes on here, the Central Party wants the exact opposite. Because it's clear that we also have to streamline, but I fully agree that we should focus on the relocation of state jobs, and that's exactly what this government is doing, and never the Center Party. Whether or not they have it in the parties is possible, but at least never in practice. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3958	First to the story of the representative of Skelstad: if there is one party – and one person – that is high and dark in the debate on the relocation of state workplaces, it is the Left Party. I followed very closely on the whole of the party during the 2013–2017 ageing period. There were promises of emigration as yet in distribution, as still in messages, as still in new distributions. Then, at the end of the four-year period, there was a promise to move out 3,000 jobs – move out 3,000 jobs! The reality was that most of this was about establishing new state jobs outside Oslo. There is something other than moving out existing jobs from Oslo. This is something the representative of Skjelstad knows all about. The same number of new state jobs were created outside Oslo under the red-green government that it had done under this government. Click to close the curve So to the issues that are under consideration today: this debate has been interesting to be right on – and a little strange, because often the figures from the government parties in this room are apparently busy seeing the possibilities that might have been around in District Norway and throughout the country. But when we get to work in Helfo, most of it's about problems. I thought I would take a few examples of the fact that it is possible to have successful establishments of state jobs outside Oslo. In diffi, the Directorate of Administration and ICT, there are a lot of highly skilled workplaces and many who support digitisation and ICT. They have a department at Leikanger in Sogn and Fjordane, a small municipality at Sognefjorden with 2,300 inhabitants. It's okay. In Förde, which is a municipality with 12,000 inhabitants, we have the Lottery Authority. Click to close the curve I shall give praise to the representative at one point. One has also moved the Peace Corps from Oslo to Förde. They were then baptized into the Western name Norec. But Norec is now being established in Förde. It's okay. There was no job in that area at all. It's built up from the bottom of, and one recruits well with people. What say they who work there? Yes, they have good employment and stability in the workforce. Not having to train new people is also a major benefit in terms of efficiency and progress. Click to close the curve I'd like the figures from the government party not to be so stiff, by the fact that the beautiful words as one in general try to raise the stakes, as well as being taken into account when discussing the organisation of the police, by Helfo, by emergency services and otherwise around the community. That's where we think they're failing. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3969	Unfortunately, it rarely goes well when someone from the government parties is trying to define the Labour Party’s policy – not this time either, when Carl-Erik Grimstad tried to define the Workers’ Party. I would just like to briefly remind you that the Workers' Party is well-known for the slogan 'By and Land – Hand in Hand'. For me, there is much more than just a slogan, and we show that, in my view, in this matter. This is far from being a trap; it's the opposite of good district policy, in my view. Click to close the curve So to the representative of Bollestad, from the Christian People's Party, his post: It was a post that was not close to answering why all day last year's Christian People's Party participated in the following majority comment: 'The majority believe this is important government jobs that must not be centralised', whereas this year there is not one word that the government chose to maintain only one additional office – it was so good that they chose to maintain an additional office – as a result of such a majority remark. On the contrary, it was an attack on the same opposition as the Christian People's Party last year, and then you can fool around on the motive behind it. Click to close the curve The Labour Party is clear that of course we expect Helfo to provide effective services as well, and that Helfo must reduce where it is necessary to digitize services. But to me, it's strange that the Christian People's Party doesn't seem to have faith that one can deliver good and efficient services even with a more decentralised office structure than what it's added up to here. It can be beneficial with smaller places. I come from a smaller place myself and know, for example. office premises are usually less expensive in smaller places. This does not mean that we in the Labour Party believe that everything should be like before, but we believe that the government could do a better job here to show that a rate across Norway, and to show that for example. a part of the country on which the South could have been expected further when thinking about Helfo workplaces. Click to close the curve I must honestly say that I have had a hope that the Christian People's Party, when they are probably on their way into government, would contribute to a just so little more of the country a little bit better. In this way, the post from the representative Bollestad was unfortunately a warning that one cannot expect all the world. I hope it's not a signal that that's how it's going to be in other issues of centralisation, versus being able to do the opportunities in the future, among other things. through digitisation, large, by using other parts of the country, where the places are smaller, but where these types of jobs certainly mean a lot. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3980	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3985	The representative of Skelstad said that the government is moving out state jobs. What people notice is that the government is moving the nation's people into fewer places – moving the nation's people into fewer places, matching the police, tax, and Nav. Click to close the curve Place of refuge says that a need for basic competence for state workplaces. Yes, sir. The competent youth exists, and it's easiest to build on what we have, and develop it further. Then it is completely wrong to lay down state jobs, state bridgeheads around the country. One does not have credibility when one from the government parties and government is talking about decentralization. This is hardcore centralization that needs to be stopped. We must be involved in this dispute and want to debate the whole country. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3992	There's a lot we're going to swallow in a debate. When you get questions about the Christian People's Party's district policy, I think the representative from the Workers' Party can go back to the health and health plan and look at centralisation and talk about districts in health. But here it is about some offices that are not supposed to meet the users themselves, but on which we depend in the health and health plan, for example. It's about office, and it's about you being more efficient because you've got a digital platform, which makes Helfo himself say that we can do a reorganization. Then I choose to listen to Helfo more than the Working Party's big group in terms of which offices and how we should do this in order to get a better structure and to get a better Helfo than we have today. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e3997	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4002	What Mr. Olaug V. Bollestad says here is honest, and I don't criticize her for that. What is completely incomprehensible is that the Christian People's Party has changed its view from last year to now. In addition, Knut Arild Hareide followed up with a written question to the Council of State in January this year. So everyone's got the impression that the Christian People's Party was on our line, but now we're getting the truth -- and that's honest words for the money. Click to close the curve When it comes to Tønsberg and that this is a decentralisation, I would like to inform you that of the positions that remain, 195 are in Tønsberg, which is also the main place for Helfo today, so the relocation from Oslo to Vestfold is quite weak and no real decentralisation. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4009	The logic of the last one, I don't quite understand. The point is that the workplaces are kept in Westfold and not moved to Oslo. Click to close the curve When I hear the representative Lundtigen, it does not surprise me so much that his party is not stronger in Westfold, Norway's vegetable garden. When he can stand here and say that the 18-page letter of the Council of State is used against him, it is completely incomprehensible to me. If it had been up to me, it would have kept one line: More health for every penny. That's the country's health budget we're debating here tonight. Click to close the curve To another of Lundtägen's reasonings: digitalisation cannot replace good and viable professional environments? Helfo is not an enterprise that can spread around the country as prime or gum. Click to close the curve And back to Tønsberg: There is a viable environment of competent bureaucrats. Helfo is located close to the State Park, the county office – until further notice the county rapporteur’s office – not far away, the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, the DSB, the Election Directorate, the Hospital in Vestfold, which is a major business. It is important for the development of Helfo to be close to these. In fact, there has been a debate in Westfold about whether state activities should be moved closer to Sandefjord, so that it was spread in Westfold. I have argued against it just because it is important to have a viable, good environment in Tønsberg. Click to close the curve I also hope that the Westfold District Court will also be added to Tønsberg – just for mentioning it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4022	The case concerns Helfo and not the division of jurisdiction. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4027	Now that I'm listening to the debate and especially the reports from the Central Party, it would be thought that what I've done is put down Helfo's offices around the country and collected them in Oslo. That's the opposite that happens. Helfo is faced with a significant downturn as a result of digitisation. That means we need fewer employees and fewer offices. The largest closure concerns the office in Oslo. Click to close the curve The representative Steinar Ness points out that diffi has a department in Leikanger and that the Lottery Authority is in Förde. That's excellent. But what's wrong with Ørsta, Fredrikstad, Mo in Rana, Tønsberg, Churchnes and Sola? Aren't these also places that should have good government jobs, like Förde and Leikanger? This case just contributes to it for these places. If you had done what the Workers' Party has suggested, that it's okay to do something about it, but you should have had Helfo in some more places, it would mean that all of these places had fewer government jobs than they have today – while Helfo had to spend more money on a structure they strictly do not need after digitisation, money that we could otherwise spend on better health services and enhanced digitisation. Click to close the curve This is a case that just shows that the whole country is being used when making necessary changes to the public sector and thinking about the importance of spreading government jobs and adding them to places where they contribute to attractive, good jobs. That someone is disappointed that it won't be their place, what they represent, I have a deep understanding of, but I can't understand what the Center Party has against Ørsta, Fredrikstad, Mo in Rana, Tønsberg, Churchnes and Sola. The centre party manages to use the Stockholm Chair as evidence that the matter is poorly investigated that the letter to the committee is long. This is the first time I hear that a thorough information about the Stortinget is taken as evidence that the matter is not well prepared. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4036	Until the last speech by the Council of State: I think the Council of State should stay too good to say from the pulpit of the Storting that the party that has not proposed the closure of a single office is against some of the places that have offices today. It is the Council of State and the majority in this Chamber which facilitates the massive centralisation and closure of existing offices and which must bear responsibility for it. Click to close the curve New technology offers opportunities. The centre party is concerned that we should use new technologies and the opportunities offered by new technologies, but new technologies can also be used in different ways. The Central Party will use new technologies and the opportunities offered by new technologies to pursue active decentralisation policies by strengthening different environments around the country. Of course, new technologies can also be used in the opposite way. New technologies can also be used for more and more centralisation if that is the ideology you want to promote. And that's what's the basic opposite of this period. Not only in this case, but in the field of field by field, digitalisation is used, that new solutions have been developed, as a reason for centralisation. Click to close the curve To the representative of Bollestad: I record that this year the representative of Bollestad and the Christian People's Party is obviously in debt with the government parties for this centralisation to take place – a centralisation down from 22 offices today to 6 offices. But that's a little bit strange. What did the Christian People's Party mean last year when they stood with us in opposition and said the following: ‘The majority consider this to be important State jobs which must not be centralised.’ I would recommend that politics be honest about what you want to achieve, and what you give of hopes to people. I think very many of those who are employed in Helfo at the different 22 offices today had hopes that such an observation as, among other things, The Christian People's Party was involved, in fact, in fighting for a decentralised structure. Unfortunately, it is extremely disappointing that you do not get a majority in favour of it as a majority on the Stortinget no later than one year ago had as a clear premise on this matter. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4051	Two brief comments in what may be the end of this debate: something has been said about making yourself tall and dark from this pulpit. The representative Grimstad was a little rough, liberal and roughly about the low upswing of the Center Party in Westfold. I thought I could remind the representative that in the last rollover option the centre party had 6.3 pst. digestion and Left 3,8 pst. Vestfold. Click to close the curve The Health Minister has listened to something I did not say, that I have spoken disparagingly about some places in this country. I'm completely overconfident that I haven't done from this pulpit, from other places. Click to close the curve And as the representative Toppe said earlier today, we might as well turn that argument around. What's wrong with Kirkenes, Lenvik, Harstad, Beirarn, Nærøy, Verdal, Gloppen etc.? Is there anything wrong with these places? No, I guess that's not what this is about. It is about how one thinks ideologically, and then it is as it has been said here that the policy of this government is that state jobs abroad should be concentrated in fewer and fewer places. But there can't be any height in stone that there are only five places Helfo can have offices in Norway, because then it's going to be optimal, ideal, good with recruitment, everything's going on, that there's going to be more money for health, and that with another structure it's impossible to get to the same thing. There is an important difference here in this Chamber, and we are going to take the debate both here and outside this Chamber. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4060	I have not said that Steinar Ness has said that there is something wrong with those places. I asked the question: what is wrong with those places, since the representative chose to draw Leikanger and Förde as excellent places for government jobs – which I fully agree with? The government has contributed to the creation of more State jobs, including: in Förde. We do the same thing with the places that I rammed up, but it's trying to represent the Center Party as centralization. The point is that the central part doesn't go up. They cannot stand here on the platform and talk nicely about digitisation, modernisation and the need for change, and at the same time pretend that all the 22 offices are going to pass. It's not people to the 22 offices after the digitization. Helfo should cut down by 100 to 150 people who work manually today. That means there's going to be a change in the structure. We have chosen precisely these places through thorough work, with which we believe there is nothing wrong – in line with Förde and Leikanger, good places for location of state jobs. If we kept Helfo's offices in even more places, several of the places I mentioned, with the proposal of the Center Party, would have a cut in the number of state jobs compared to what is the situation today. That would have been the reality of the proposal of the Centre Party, while we had to use health crowns for a different purpose than what is intended, namely to contribute to the best possible health for the population. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4065	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4070	For this to mean a decentralisation: the structure laid down is that there should be 195 jobs in Tønsberg and 178 jobs for distribution in the rest of the country. It's not a good, decentralised structure. Click to close the curve It's about the political choices you make on different issues, and seeing them in context. Here the Council of State and the majority say that Helfo has made a proposal, and that is what we have to consider. You do the same thing in different areas as well. As far as the police are concerned, the Police Directorate is the one to be in charge, and in other state agencies the same is true. But it is we, as elected representatives, who must have an overall view and see how we should facilitate people to live, work and live good lives throughout the country. There is no need to focus on a policy of centralisation in which function, workplaces are removed from the local environment. Then you have to think the opposite, and then you have to have a deliberate policy against decentralization. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4077	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4089	Then we're ready to go to voting. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4098	A total of 20 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-8, by Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 9 and 10, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposal No 11, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 12-14, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 15, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Center Party proposed no. 16–20, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there will be a vote on proposal No. 16-20, from the Socialist Left Party. Click to close the curve Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure that all unbundled funds under the Research Council’s 2019 arrangements are shifted from petroleum to other industries.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all unbundled funds under the Innovation Norway Schemes in 2019 are shifted from petroleum to other industries.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to provide leadership for the export credit scheme to give priority to support for renewable energy and other industries projects in support of oil and gas projects.’;» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to assess whether incentives can be introduced through the grant schemes in order to better ensure the welfare of animals.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to update the national soil protection target to a maximum of 3000 then annual soil degradation.’; The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4159	Proposal No. 15 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to reconsider the basis for the decision to wind up coal operations on Svalbard and to refer the matter to the Stortinget for a decision in relation to the revised State budget 2019.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4174	Proposal No. 12-14, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Click to close the curve Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to submit proposals to the Storting to introduce the possibility of protecting cultivated land.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to investigate and submit proposals to the Stortinget which require municipalities to obtain permission from the State in order to re-regulate cultivated and arable land for purposes other than agriculture.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to stop working on a third runway at Oslo Airport Gardermoen.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4203	Proposal No. 11, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to stop the sale of state forest.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4220	Proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new and more offensive soil protection target to be presented by the government from 2020 onwards.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already given subsidiary support to the proposal. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4238	Proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for further changes to make it possible for the provision of high season rental cars to meet ever-increasing demand.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e4253	Proposal No. 1-8, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Click to close the curve Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop an industrial strategy aimed at transforming hazardous waste into industrial added value. The strategy must show how the State, in cooperation with Norwegian industrial and waste companies, can reduce the need to landfill hazardous waste. The main objective of the strategy must be to ensure that a maximum share of hazardous waste resources is converted into resources and thus added value, either in the form of increased market value or as raw materials for industrial processes.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up the Centres for the Sea and the Arctic in Tromsø with proposals for appropriations and resources proportionate to the mandates and expectations of the Centre, and asks the Government to come back with proposals in the context of the revised National Budget 2019.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess future funding of the geoparks, in the light of their responsibilities as a result of UNESCO status, and to propose proposals for the Stortinge in the context of the revised National Budget for 2019.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present the forthcoming high-level communication on prevention of maritime safety in good time before the summer of 2019 and to have, inter alia, a plan for a national campaign with awareness-raising measures to prevent marine accidents, mobilising voluntary action along the coast.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a public sample to assess the impact of the introduction and use of new genetic engineering methods in food production. The selection must be broadly composed in order to highlight as many perspectives as possible, to discuss background and to identify the need for new knowledge.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to wait for any enforcement action to be taken in the case of renumbering (Judgement of the Supreme Court of 21 December 2017 [[HR-2017-2428-A]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a party-wide sample to review different conditions of, and, where appropriate, to propose changes to, the framework conditions for the horse industry. Such a case must be submitted to the Stortinget during 2019.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and submit proposals to prohibit options agreements in LNF areas.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e6835	Behind the advice is the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e6840	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e7232	It's going to be over A XIII. Click to close the curve The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e7246	It's going to be written over A XIV. Click to close the curve Red has announced that they will vote against it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e7260	It shall be weighed over A II up to and including XII and XV. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e7588	Behind the advice is the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e7593	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e8803	Behind the advice is the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e8990	It's going to be over CV and VI. Click to close the curve Red has announced that they will vote against it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e9004	C II-IV and D I will be voted on. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e10961	A total of 20 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1–6, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party proposed no. 8-10, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 11–15, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 16, by Hans Fredrik Gruvan on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 17, by Hans Fredrik Gruvan on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposed no. 18-20, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 16 replaces A V in the recommendation. Click to close the curve Proposal No. 18-20, from the Socialist Left Party. Click to close the curve Proposal No. 18 sounds: «The Government is asked to initiate an independent review of the tendering process which ended with the award of Traffic Package 1: South to Go-Ahead Norway AS. The review shall examine whether all rules on public acquisitions were complied with.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that quality is weighted higher than the price in all forthcoming rail tender packages, including Traffic Package 2: North’.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government requests the suspension of all tendering procedures for routes pending the review of Traffic Package 1: South and the amended conditions for Traffic Package 2: North’.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposals. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e11016	Proposal No. 17, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to explain to the government, in the context of the State budget for 2020, how the intention set out in the Request Decision No. 264. from the 2017-2018 session will be followed up.’ The other parties have already given their support to the proposal. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e11031	Proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for progress in the planning of a new bridge over Glomma on highway 22 in Fet in Akershus, so that a new bridge can be completed in line with a timetable drawn up by the State Road Administration.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e11048	Proposal No. 11, 12, 14 and 15 from the Workers' Party. Click to close the curve Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken to improve the competitive situation of rail freight as quickly as possible and for the Storting to be informed of the measures in the revised national budget for 2019 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a timetable for the completion of double tracks to Fredrikstad, Hamar, Tønsberg, Hønefoss, Halden, Lillehammer and Skien respectively.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to clarify whether it is Statens vägvesen or Nye Vejer to plan E16 through Nes and Sør-Odal in Akershus and Hedmark, and that the Stortinget is informed of the decision at the latest in the Revised National Budget for 2019.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for the development of E6 in Helgeland, which also includes the sections in the municipality of Grane, in line with previous decisions on the size of the population, and that the plan is submitted to the Stortinget at the latest in the Revised National Budget for 2019.’ The centre party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party have already supported the proposals. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e11082	Proposal No. 8-10, from the Socialist Left Party. Click to close the curve Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up the zero growth target and to set a target of boosting total passenger car traffic for the cities of Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim. The Government shall engage in dialogue with cities in order to achieve an ambitious and realistic objective.’.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the creation of a State company ‘New Baner’, which will be responsible for the investigation, planning and development of short-haul trains between the major cities of Norway and Stockholm and Copenhagen.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue planning the Ringerix Railway as a purely railway project and to postpone any road construction along the same route. The funds saved in 2019 by stopping road planning are transferred to other railway applications.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e11112	Proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the E16 File Mountain project is extended to the Turtnes-Øye section of the municipality of Vang.’ Red is in favour of the proposal. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e11129	Proposal No. 1–6, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Click to close the curve Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the transfer of purchases of domestic air routes is deferred until the Government’s aviation committee has given notice and the matter has been referred to the Stortinget for consideration.’ [[FOT Routes]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop planned increases in rail freight charges on rail.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide the necessary means to start electrification of the Trander Railway and the Meråker Railway in 2019.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a separate case to be brought back with regard to the handling of submarine U-864 outside Fedje, where it is also assessed to remove as much as possible of the onboard mercury load before covering the area.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The budget agrees that in 2019 the Ministry of Transport will be able to conclude agreements for the advance of funds in addition to the appropriations allocated to it. 1360 item 30 New facilities and major maintenance, fishing ports and fairways, up to 700 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make adjustments to the back-up regime for the carriage of goods by road to sea in order to improve the benefits of domestic maritime transport by providing a ceiling on the amount of each application, and to reserve part of the rights to transport by Norwegian territorial waters.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e12857	It's going to be over A I first. Click to close the curve Behind the advice is the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. Click to close the curve The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e12873	Proposal No. 16, from Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e13591	A II, III, IV, VII, VIII, XI, XIII and B are the first to be voted on. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e13601	It's going to be written over A VI. Click to close the curve The Greens have announced that they will vote against it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e13615	It's getting wet over A IX. Click to close the curve The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e13629	It's going to be over AX and XII. Click to close the curve Red has announced that they will vote against it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e13647	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposed no. 3 and 4, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. 5 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the system of user rooms and the user room law after five years of operation.’ The Christian People’s Party and the Red Party support the proposal. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e13676	Proposal No. 3 and 4 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Click to close the curve Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the changes to the IDU Act facilitate the equivalence of inhalation and other more gentle routes of administration with injection in terms of access to user rooms.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that user rooms become an arena for inclusion and professional supervision of people with drug problems, regardless of the mode of drug use.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e13700	Proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Click to close the curve Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the user rooms to be actively used to intensify prevention and to provide diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis C in users.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote the necessary measures in the healthcare system to ensure that no deaths or infections of hepatitis C occur in Norway by 2025, and to inform the Storting appropriately.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposals. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e14079	We're going to add up to III and VIII first. Click to close the curve The Christian People's Party has warned that they will protest. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e14093	I, II, IV and VII will be voted on. Click to close the curve The Labour Party, the Center Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e14108	It's going to be gravitated over V and VI. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e14118	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. Click to close the curve The president assumed that the Christian People's Party would vote against it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e14136	Then the result is that 92 votes for the title of the law and the law in its entirety and 5 votes against. Click to close the curve The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e14147	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the structure of Helfo’s office on the basis of real assessments of efficiency gains, the promotion of digitisation, the risk of loss of experience, state guidelines on the location of state jobs, and the leadership of the Storting as expressed in a majority opinion at the Innst. [[2018-2018]] 11 S Red is in favour of the proposal. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e14173	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to follow up the majority comment on Helfo's office structure from Innst. [[2017-2018]] 11 S by ensuring a more decentralised office structure in Helfo than the government decision of 19 April 2018.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal. Click to close the curve The Red Party and the Senter Party have every subsidiary support for the proposal. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e14192	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e14200	The Labour Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-11.ana.ud331e14221	Preloaded report is not present. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled. Click to close the
