ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e108	The representatives Gisle Meininger Saudland, Espen Barth Eide and Lars Haltbrecken, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. An application for a welfare permit for the representative of Lene Westgaard-Halle is submitted from the Eichres Storingsgruppe from 17 December to 19 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the commodity, Renate Silver, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e158	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes. In addition, 5 minutes each is proposed for members of the government. The President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to five lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e171	We have a lot to be grateful for in Norwegian healthcare. For the 13th consecutive year, Norway is ranked highest in terms of standard of living, life expectancy and education. Norway’s robust and publicly funded healthcare system is reported as a major cause of life expectancy in Norway at 82 years. It is important to take it into account in the overall perspective, while addressing the real challenges and working for an even better health care system. We're good in the Christmas season now. Many young people are negatively affected by the strong focus on alcohol at Christmas. I hope I have someone in this room who wants to mark white Christmas this year, in solidarity with the 80,000 kids who are horrifying themselves at an unforeseeable festival with a lot of alcohol. Major parts of the extent of harm caused by drug use are linked to the majority, with relatively low consumption. We know that restrictive drug policies have a good effect. The Christian People's Party is happy to have a further 10 million in place. for voluntary drug-prevention activities, including: to AKAN and Juvente. We're also happy to have another 40 million in place. to the non-profit and voluntary sector, where organisations often equipped to meet children and young people and families of drug addicts are. The non-profit sector has done a lot of pioneering work in our health services. It is important to ensure the field of predictability and competitive conditions. That is why it is a big saying that through the budgetary agreement, we have put in place an application-based scheme for the historical pension costs of the non-profit sector, a promise for the non-profit sector to give a boost to patients and users. 80 pst. Of all mental disorders among adults, starting before 20 years of age. Childhood has an enormous impact on what it's going to be like later in life. No task is more important than ensuring all children and young people good growth conditions. This public health challenge can only be addressed in a systematic way. Although we have put in place several good measures that will benefit our young people and address the mental health challenges, I have high expectations for the escalation plan for children and young people’s mental health. It has been adopted and has to come. There is a lot of good prevention work here, not least for each individual youth. We are also in the process of deciding from this house to combat violence and abuse against children. As a politician, I know that there is no struggle that is more important than this. Adequate resources, the prevention and detection of violence and abuse are crucial. The Christian People's Party has a further 12 million in place. kr for medical examinations in children’s homes, as well as an offensive earmarked health station and school health service with a total of 120 million. kr. Available, safe and competent adults in contact with young people who have been subjected to violence and abuse are our main mission. There are many other challenges, such as the fixed crisis, such as near-resources to hospitals, as near-resources to primary health care, such as raising older people and the challenges that exist, but there is no more responsibility to us than ensuring that children and young people are not subjected to violence and abuse. It is preventive, it is valuable, and it is our responsibility. We can give more money to the hospitals, we can give more money to the real estate agencies, we can give it to the Celiaki Association, and we can give it to ideal actors, but we can never give kids back a childhood. That's why it's our responsibility to get a systematic effort to combat violence and abuse against children and young people, but not least help afterwards with the mental challenges that very many people are struggling with, precisely because no adults have seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e188	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e193	During this year the Christian People's Party has given a majority to many decisions in our committee. There might be a little bit of other times in the future. One of the decisions we've had together is one hour of physical activity for all children in primary school. It is an important public health measure. There we stand together with a broad public health alliance of professionals, volunteers and knowledge in the field of public health. When you read the report from the right parties in the majority comments in the votes both from our committee and from the Education and Research Committee, you might get a little worried. My question to the representative of Bollestad is: Will the Christian People's Party continue to work to ensure that this applies every day, not to include school trips and, as far as possible, to dilute this beautiful public health decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e200	Yes, the Christian People's Party stands by that decision. We know that almost three million of our inhabitants are inactive in relation to the target we have, and 300,000 of them are our children. These are our children who are not physically activated enough. We have over 100 research projects in our own country that have shown that this is the right thing to do. In order to care for the children, in terms of both concentrating better, learning more and getting better physical and mental health – physics and the psychic relationship – we think this is a wise choice. At the same time, we believe that teachers' freedom of method is so important that we believe it can be arranged within today's hours. We think it's best for the students, and I think we're getting a much better future for public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e205	It is important in a democracy that decisions taken by a majority in the United Kingdom are followed up by a minority government. In several areas of health policy, we feel that this does not happen. The decision about an hour of physical activity in the school was named and answered in the previous line. I would like to address the decision to reduce ISF, effort-driven financing, from 50 pst. to 40 pst. It will not be followed up. It is also not decided to have an ISF review to see if it may have an impact on health priorities. Now the Christian People's Party has a key role, both when it comes to budgeting, and perhaps as a coming government party. When it comes to ISF, isn't it an important matter for the Christian People's Party that we have to bring down the ISF section and look at how it has implications for health care priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e212	If there's something about the Christian People's Party, it's the ISF, because it may have an impact on health priorities. The Christian People's Party has actually reduced its share to 30 pst in its own program. We're willing to look at more of the frames. I agree with the representative that there is a decision in Stortinget that one should go down to 40 p.m. – then we have a budget settlement. But I fully agree with the representative of Kjerkol: this is incredibly important in order to give the right priority. It doesn't have to be what you get the most back for, which is prioritised in health care, but which patients need it first and need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e217	The representative of Bollestad has rightly pointed out in the comments of the Christian People's Party the challenges we have with the nursing crisis. I see that she is concerned about both several places of study and good recruitment. In the case of good recruitment measures, I am a little uncertain about how the Christian People's Party believes that we can recruit more people for the profession. At the same time, I would like to ask the representative of Bollestad how she thinks we can keep the nurses in the profession when one in five nurses leave the profession for the first 10 years after completing education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e222	I'm so lucky to be a nurse myself, so I think I know a little bit about how it feels on the body. I think one of the things that's important to the nurses is to have both time and competence to do what they're supposed to do. This means that people must be kept, they must have both time — tours that have been agreed with the parties — and good working conditions. In addition, I think it's about having to have enough education and follow-up of the students who come into practice, and that there's not much distance between what you learn when you go to study and what is the reality when you get into the profession. The Christian People's Party has been concerned with both recruitment, decentralised education and being able to build on the experience that you already have, in order to bring with you skills. We think there must be a variety of measures to succeed in both recruiting and retaining people in this profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e231	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e237	The Health Policy objective of the Workers' Party is a society that promotes good health and quality of life for all, prevents disease and provides opportunities for good life, regardless of where you live, and what you have in your wallet. Our health policy is based on a simple but important analysis: it is only strong communities that can provide good health and quality of life to all. Fortunately, many are healthy and live good lives in Norway. As a society, we must actively prevent people from getting sick. It is important to maintain well-being. The future draws a picture of changed demography. Several older people who live longer have several fresh years, but also a more complex form of disease in the individual, which demands care and care. Serious diseases such as cancer and heart disease require advanced treatment. Although most children and young people are doing well, there are many who are struggling with mental health problems and some experience falling out of the way. The working party has an ambition that the community will help to give children and young people a safe and secure relationship with whether they are in school, kindergarten, child protection or school health services. If society is to help take care of all children, the community must ensure that there are safe adults to talk to. That's why we're going to bet 100 million. kr more than the government of the school health service and 100 million. to establish low-threshold mental health services. Every day there are thousands of Norwegian kids sitting at school without food in their stomach or in their bag. Norway is one of the few countries in Europe that do not offer schoolchildren a daily meal. Together with heavy professional environments, we only find good arguments for school food, while the Right puts good nutrition up for good learning. Understand the one who can. Our fixed medical system is the very foundation of our common healthcare system. The scheme was introduced by the Workers' Party and gives all the inhabitants their own doctor through life. The decision-maker sees the individual, provides treatment and advice and continues the link to specialised treatment or other social benefits. But the system is in crisis. Half of our municipalities are struggling with recruiting permanent workers. The government's answer is to wait and see. The Labour Party believes that next year's budget requires immediate action to recruit more doctors to the scheme, so that the doctors there can cut the length of their patient lists. Therefore, we will have 400 new posts for general practitioners in specialisation, as well as an increase of 100 more tournament positions than the government's proposal, to increase the number of qualified doctors. The Workers' Party's alternative budget is immediate help for the fixed crisis – the right medicine at the right time. Dental health is the largest hole in the welfare state. In this area, the Labour Party sees the need to extend Community solutions. Then we can't agree to the non-social cut of the budget in support of those who need dental care the most. In addition to reversing the cuts, we will extend free dental health to 21 years and have 50 pst. a discount up to 25 years. Also those who get poor dental health due to disease will benefit from our budget. Through prevention, early intervention and good treatment when you get sick, one in our community health care should get the best help throughout your life. People have to experience the services as accessible, secure, integrated and coordinated. No one should become wasteballs in a system when they are ill. We must organise ourselves in such a way that patients experience one healthcare service. In this way, we need to take good care of the primary health service, including the determination of doctors, competences, perspectives and authority. It's important to remember that people don't get sick in hospitals, people get sick where they live, and everyone lives in a municipality. Therefore, the Labour Party’s draft budget contains a strong and targeted effort to prevent disease, and therefore economic muscles for municipalities and health services close to people. Fortunately, hospitals and the rest of the specialist healthcare services in Norway are of high quality, but many patients still experience errors, lack of information and poor cooperation in dealing with healthcare. If we are to stop the development of a two-part healthcare service in Norway, we must say no to even more privatisation that prevents good management of the resources where they are most needed, no more transactions and more fragmentation of the service, as the government recommends. The Council of State has confirmed through three large-scale messages that the interaction reform is still in force, but it needs to start turning its efforts where it benefits the most in the treatment chain. The direction of the interaction reform is not being given to any new energy, nor to any new measures by today’s government. The chronic under-financing of our common hospital is continued in this budget that the majority is behind. We fear the paternity and emergency medicine, which are still being cut. We fear patients who are being sent home prematurely to a community health service that has not been given the resources to receive them. The hospital vow of the Workers' Party was that the hospitals would receive 3 billion. kr annually. We would have fulfilled that this year. Then we could also get investments in mental health services. Every time this theme comes up, councillor Höie starts talking about the golden rule, a rule he hasn't been able to follow. But it doesn't matter what it's called, political will is what it takes to prioritize mental health services, not flares. In the budgets of the red-green government, mental health gained a greater percentage growth than somatic, even without a golden label. The Solberg government invited the last year’s budget debate to a debate on the sustainability of the welfare state. Health services must give greater priority to the future. The requirements for the introduction of new medicinal products and new methods of health care are high, and it is strange that government parties do not agree to remove the exemption from VAT for alternative treatment, which has an estimated gain of approx. $180 million. kr, maybe more. Instead, the Minister of Health has started a debate on what medical treatments we are going to end with. To conclude, our common healthcare should be accessible to everyone. Differences in health status and access to health care, as we see in many other countries, must not develop in Norway. We must jointly invest in our common health care, and not leave people's lives and health to market logic. There is the difference between the Workers' Party and the Right Party Government. And one more thing: Erna Solberg and Bent Höie have gone so far in the pursuit of power as to put the abortion law on the negotiating table. For the Workers' Party, something like this is completely out of date. We support the budget agreement proposal of 10.9 million. kr in order to extend the use of long-term prevention, but the law on abortion should leave the settlement partners alone. With that, I address the proposals that the Workers' Party is involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e267	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e274	The quality reform "Life All Life" should be at the heart of the Workers' Party, for here it is truly promised in a flock. The reform is based on what employees, older people, relatives and researchers — a lot of people — have seen in practice. The government has traveled country and beach around to find the good measures. These proposals are contained in the Communication. But some municipalities were also found that were not really able to go into this. That is why we added an amount of earmarked national and regional support apparatus to the budget, which should be able to guide the municipalities that need it. You'd rather not label it, but we saw this as so important that we did it. Now the Workers' Party wants to cut the whole amount – why? Do they no longer believe in the value of Community solutions? Where's their traditional heart cause?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e283	It is not true that we reduce money to care for the elderly even if we do not agree with the solution that the government estimates. In fact, we spend much more money on care for the elderly than the government prioritizes in the budget that has made the four bourgeois parties stand behind. The concern for inequality in care for the elderly over the whole country I share with the representative Noklebye Heiberg. I would like to refer to the National Audit Office, which just produced a report on the availability and quality of care for the elderly, which specifically called for two things: more precise objectives for quality and stronger state instruments to achieve the objectives. As far as I can see – and it is covered by many opinions other than mine – the ‘lifelong life’ reform does not respond to that challenge. It can hardly be called a reform, but is more an inspirational catalogue from the municipalities that work well with care for the elderly. There's a lot of them. Many of them also have rapporteurs from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e290	The problem is that a good number of municipalities don't quite do that task. That's why we have set this amount – for them to be taught to do so. That's precisely because you can achieve what the representative now says you want. Why does the Workers' Party cut that amount?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e295	I just have to repeat that we don't cut that amount. We're using 3.5 billion. in the municipal sector, on those responsible for this service. In addition, we want clearer quality objectives. We also have a proposal that says we need better government instruments, and we need response teams that follow the municipalities where you're not good enough. Making a big message with good examples is positive, but as the minister himself said at the launch of this message: When the council presented her retirement bet, she said there will be no new paragraphs and no new appropriations, but they had some carrots: «Not a whole field, but a nice little bundle». A nice set of carrots is not enough to improve care for the elderly in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e302	The Workers' Party will remove the state care project that has been a major success in the municipalities where it has been tested. The representative Kjerkol was arrested after a debate at the Political Quarter by the Central Party rapporteur in Stjørdal, the representative's own home, after she claimed that there were no more hands at work, nor did it result in better working methods. The fact is that it has both given several years' work and improved routines, and you now build a health centre in Stjørdal that the politicians who say would not have been possible without this project. Thus, with the Labour Party's policy, the inhabitants of Kjerkol's own municipality of residence would be offered a lower level of care. I wonder: why does the representative of Kjerkol want to take away and reduce the provision of care to the inhabitants of his own municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e309	I know my own municipality of residence well, both as a relative and as a family working in the service mentioned by the representative of Listhaug. The additional annual works in the municipality of Stjørdal have gone to project managers, not to new hands in the service. Even my husband and I experienced waiting nine months for my old father-in-law to have a happy day's place of care. It was a rather unworthy situation, a despair that I believe the representative Listhaug can both sympathize with and not wish for anyone else, in other municipalities. What the evaluation of this state experiment shows is that there are no differences in quality between the municipalities involved in the project and those not included. In my neighbouring municipality, Malvik, they are not part of the project, and they are well aware of all quality indicators and have established more services than Stjørdal has – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e316	I have great sympathy with everyone who does not get the services they need, and that happens in a lot of municipalities in Norway. But the rapporteur in Stjørdal, who controls Stjørdal, says that this offer has improved. I have visited several of the municipalities that are involved in the test project. I have met employees, residents, users and not least relatives who are brilliantly satisfied, who say that they are being taken seriously in a completely different way now than they experienced before. I met an employee in one of these municipalities who said, "Before I went home with a bad stomach because I knew that the user who was sitting in front of me was getting too little help, but now I can take into account the needs you have, not the money, and I can go home with a good conscience." What does the representative Kjerkol think when she hears that, and when we know that there are thousands of people in the care services who go home with a lump in their stomach because they know that people are getting too little help?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e327	That's what I think is a desperate situation, because professionals will always be motivated by developing their service. This probably applies to both the municipality of Stjørdal and the other six or seven municipalities – if I am not completely wrong – that are involved in the state experiment. They've got 4 pst. the imposition of what they themselves used on these services. For Stjørdal Municipality, I know that this meant a budget increase. Moreover, the bourgeois majority at Stjørdal, where the Progress Party has been in and out of office since 1999, has not planned a new place for health care in the last 20 years. They spent much less than the national average on these services, and therefore it became part of this SIO project, as it is called, an economic gain. That was the argument of the manager when he recommended this: now they could freeze the care of the elderly for further cuts from the majority, therefore they should join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e332	It is quite interesting to hear the representative of Kjerkol’s mention of ‘Life for the rest of your life’. It is presented as a sort of collection of good tips and advice, but the fact is that this is something that is working on throughout the country. There is little respect for all the elderly councils and others who have set up in this process. I think the Workers' Party should take over. We like to work, we like to listen to people out there. The working party mocks the process by calling this a collection of examples. In terms of numbers, it's a fact that the Workers' Party has cut 48 million. to “Live your whole life” and 18 million. for safety and mastering technologies, and other related to the elderly. So they cut in this in their health budget, under Chapter 761, which is the care service. The fact that the Labour Party has increased the municipal framework, they have used it in every budget debate this week, and the same money they spend over and over again. Today we are discussing the health budget, and the fasitite is: They're cutting 48 million. kr to “Live your whole life” and take away 18 million. kr, which is just to give older people the opportunity to master new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e342	It's not true, although it's repeated many times enough from a coordinated government fraction, that we're cutting in the care of the elderly. We fill both the municipal framework and we fill in the tools available to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. We don't use the same post as the government parties, but that doesn't mean there would be less money for service development with our arrangement. It gets a little bit too simple. If it's very important for the representative of Sveinung Stensland which posts you point to, then I guess it's not just me who has distrust of the professionals out there, who was his accusation against me, then he's guilty of the same mistrust. In the case of ‘lifelong living’, we do not mock professionals in the municipalities who work well with care for the elderly. We give them more money to continue the good job. I only use the old-age council's own description of the message. Here it's little new, but some carrots.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e349	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e354	To the last line change: I didn't talk about professionals, I talked about all the older people who had set up a good process to find good solutions, how we like to work in parties that listen to those who have the shoes on. People expect qualified health care quickly if they are injured or ill. Short waiting times are the most important, and high-quality services are of course. If we're going to do that, we're going to have to be willing to change. If we work exactly as now, we need 50 pst. more health care workers in 2035 than today. This budget provides the basis for what is most important in our health policy: to reduce unnecessary and non-medically justified waiting for patients, to increase accessibility and capacity, to improve the quality of the healthcare sector, and to give priority to mental health and drugs. Local health services form the basis for a good health service. Cooperation between primary health services and specialist health services is particularly important. The proportion of older people in the Norwegian population is increasing, and the number of persons with chronic diseases and complex care needs is increasing. This increases the pressure on the health sector. There is still variation in the quality of hospital provision. The work for greater transparency on the quality of services must continue, including: through the use of quality indicators and health atlas. Today's Medicine just had enough power. Nor this time was patient power a topic. Patients need to be taken more seriously. A little too often, patients experience becoming wasteballs in the system. Often it is the system that fails when health care goes wrong. System failure causes most errors, poor communication gives most frustration. There is no doubt that we politicians have the power to direct the long lines: regulation and the allocation of healthcare. But we must never forget that there are professionals in the healthcare system from day to day. Some people think that things are done when things are adopted. That's wrong. That's when the job starts. If you don't have a good cooperation and a common understanding with those who actually meet patients, i.e. healthcare professionals, it's going to be difficult to manage your healthcare overall. In addition, being a patient is going to be difficult. It is strange that so little of the debate is about patients and the employees who treat them. Health services follow us from cradle to grave. They are there for us in joy and sorrow. What matters to patients is how they meet when they need help. Little too often, we hear about patients who experience random treatment, unclear messages and poor information. Here, too, the relatives play an important role. They are an important resource, and they shall have an influence on the offer made to the person for whom they are related. We want more attention to the relatives. They will have several roles – both as a reliever, carer and decision-maker, and for the treatment process – and I am happy to get the contact person’s message in place and in operation. There is a lot of talk in the debate about how much money is spent, and less about how they are spent. I am most concerned about the last thing: do we use the resources correctly, and what can we do to get a service that is better connected and more patient-adapted? A key is to relax around the fixed medical system and increase the recruitment of competent personnel for primary health services. We have been trusted by our voters, and it should not shock anyone that we show trust by implementing our policies. Several patients are being treated, fewer people are in line, and waiting time is shorter. We create the patient's health service, and are willing to make changes to address the health care meeting with the future. Then we have to work in new ways and apply new methods and tools in a safe and effective way. All shall have access to equivalent quality health care. Patients shall meet with respect and openness and without undue delay. Patients must be involved in all decisions relating to them. We grant, as Carl I would like to say, more than $20,000 million to health next year. To solve the challenges of the future and prevent the challenges from becoming greater than necessary, we need to be critical of how we use our resources and how our health services are organised at all times. Money is important enough, but we don't want to find one example of a patient being cured by heads and ears alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e382	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e387	Many people with developmental disabilities chose to stay in the municipalities where they had been in institutions, following the responsibilities reform for the mentally impaired. 33 municipalities have, as you know, a host municipality grant, which is a time-limited earmarked scheme. In the setting we have a comment in which we clearly state that that arrangement must continue, and I wonder why the government parties will not join in and confirm it. This is an agreement between the State and these municipalities, and I know that there will be an area review of different grant schemes, but this must be exempted from it. Can Stensland guarantee that that will happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e392	There are a number of arrangements and agreements between countries and municipalities, and the fact that we do not mention in an annotated form that they should pass does not mean that they should not exist. We can't have everything that's not written down as an annotation to next year's budget, it doesn't apply. With regard to that very comment, we had a discussion around it, and we thought that we could not go along with the wording contained in the Workers' Party's comitology, but we fully agree that this system should be taken care of. These patients and these municipalities have special needs, but just the details of that I can't explain right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e399	The government has reintroduced the golden rule, and as other representatives from the government parties, the representative Stensland repeatedly boasted that this was a very important act. Then we know he hasn't worked. The president of the Norwegian Psychologists' Association he calls a ‘political bluff’. It is five times as high in cost growth in somatic matters as in mental health protection. State Council Höie stated in 2015 that he was not happy, in 2016 that he was not happy, in 2017 that this is not good enough, and in 2018 he said: ‘I am really mad.’ So my question to the representative of Stensland is whether he is as angry as the councillor of Höie, and not least what the representative of Stensland will do to make the golden rule now work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e406	There are a number of sour people in this world. They have it in common that they don't get people with them. So I choose not to be angry, but I agree with the Minister of Health that just when it comes to the follow-up to the specialist health service, it could have been better. But one should include in that calculation the growth we see in municipal health, the primary health service. The number of psychologists in the municipalities is rising, and we've had a lot of growth among health care professionals, as it'll soon be called. The prevention services in the municipality are strengthened, but the most important thing we can do to help those who have a mental and mental challenge is to provide them with rapid help. If we look at the waiting times, BUP is the field where the waiting times have fallen most, by 50 pst. measured in the number of days, and that was one of the big, big problems a few years ago. So I'm not "acid", but I'm not erased satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e415	I want to take a follow-up question, because the matter is serious. Since 2014, Ein has said that this is the grip of the Stortinget to ensure that a mental health priority is given. But when a year after a year can't do it, it's a question that we can expect to answer, what's the deal that's going to make it work. The waiting times in the BUP have gone down, yes, but they're not good enough. To have an increased commitment to mental health in municipalities is not an answer to the question, because we have to do that either way when a cut is as much in bed capacity as it is now. Is it not discussed at all among the government parties what to do now to ensure that the Golden Rule actually acts as a steering gear?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e424	First of all, I do not agree that it is not good enough that things get better in the municipalities. For a patient, it is not so important if the person helping the patient is employed in the municipality or in the specialist health service, and in many cases it is much better to get help in the community health service, perhaps at the school where you go. That's why I think the most important thing we do is to strengthen that service, and we're very clear that we are doing that. Now we have also put in place that from 2020, all municipalities should have access to psychological services. It was one of the most important election vows a few years ago, and that's what we're about to put in place. So I don't agree with that description. As for the golden rule, I stand behind what the Health Minister has said in the media, except that I'm not mad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e431	I said in my post that 80 pst. of those who are mentally ill at an adult age, have a condition that debuted before they were 20 years old. And even though the waiting times have gone down in the BUP, we know they're long, especially for adults. We also know that many children and young people experience that they become throw-offs between primary health services, the BUP and various local authorities. So my question is, what does the representative of Stensland think about that? And what expectations does the representative have for the children's and young people's mental health escalation plan, which has just been adopted with the aim of getting better treatment for the 80 pst. who are mentally ill at an adult age, in order to prevent it? What are the views of the representative on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e439	First of all, I know a little bit about what it's like to wait for the BUP, and there's nothing further staggering, so my thoughts about it are not so good. It's not good that it's like that. In the case of the escalation plan, one of the most important steps is to enable municipalities to operate better preventively, precisely to make it easier for those who are struggling, to make contact – to lower the threshold. Because it is a completely different threshold to go to the health care provider or contact a psychologist in the municipality than to be referred by his firm into the BUP. Getting into that system is a much longer canvas to fade. So I really hope that more people get help in the municipality they live in, and that fewer people need to get on a DPS, need to meet a specialist in specialist health care, that we can prevent, that people get help earlier, and that there aren't prescriptions that are the solution, but good conversational therapy. That's what I want.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e448	The representative mentioned patients who become caste balls in the system, and I think that's a very important topic to address. Now we are in a very special situation, where several tasks are transferred from the specialist health service to the municipality without the municipalities being given the funds that belong to it. Among these groups are addicted and mentally ill people. The municipalities have now been given responsibility for, inter alia: ready-to-print patients, in line with patients with somatic disorders. An overall opposition has wondered about this, and we have made proposals to refrain from implementing it until a task and funding solution that compensates the municipalities is in place. I'm worried about these patient groups. How can the representative guarantee that these patient groups receive an offer in the municipalities that ensures the necessary follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e455	Now it's not my lot to guarantee anything, but I believe that getting municipalities a greater responsibility and co-financing responsibility means that they will actually prioritize groups. For one of the challenges is that the way the system that was put in place a few years ago works, it's the somatic approach that is being prioritised, that is, those who need care for the elderly, and the group that we're talking about here, has been prioritised down. That is why this is a positive approach. In the case of municipal economy, one – no matter what one discusses – will always say that one needs more money in the municipalities. I myself have been a group leader in a municipality that had certain financial challenges. But I believe that the best help is to get where you live, and that the best prevention is in the municipalities. Therefore, it is a good thing that municipalities get the most responsibility to treat what is not a specialist medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e462	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e467	The health and care sector is a major responsibility. It concerns many people, it affects their everyday lives and lives, and that is why it is an important part of the Progress Party. The Progress Party made choices to reduce health cows. We want to use all capacity throughout Health Norway, both private and public institutions, to ensure that health cows go down. A free choice of treatment has been introduced and ensured, and this has led to a reduction in over 70 000 people in health queues and a reduction in waiting times. We are committed to using private actors, both because the public has to pay for it anyway, and because the private actors are an important contributor to getting the queues further down. We're strengthening the hospitals in this year's budget by 11.5 billion. kr. So it's more than the demographic development would suggest. One of our important achievements in this year’s budget is also to contribute to the reduction of medical cows. We have now proposed that the evening consultations be equal to those of the permanent doctors as with the medical officer, which we hope will lead to more permanents seeing the value of having the evening open. It's a confession that too many people turn to the doctor, who should have been with their supervisor. Another important impact of the Progress Party in this year’s budget is to ensure fertility-preserving treatment for women suffering from a serious illness. It is a pleasure to see that the whole committee is behind this proposal, which reinterprets the legislation and says that for women suffering from serious illness, it is a consequence that eggs can be permanently damaged and that they are to receive full public compensation and paid for treatment in order to preserve eggs. I have also been pleased to see that the majority of the committee supports a positive mention of naprapates and osteopates, which we now know have applied for a new approval of official authorisation. It's about taking patients seriously and helping those who need it the most. The elderly have received a good budget this year. We have introduced 450 new day activities for residents with dementia. We believe that this will mean that more people are offered meaningful and active days. We're strengthening the grant to new hospitals. State funding for care services – the SIO project – is both extended and continued, and we introduce and establish our own senior representative. The elderly deserve all the good we can do for them, so the Progress Party has ensured that the elderly are winners in this year’s budget. We have presented a quality reform, ‘Life throughout life’, which has been through mainstreaming this autumn, which will contribute to an age-friendly society. Now the municipalities have a great job ahead of them to make local life-long reforms. We have to learn a little bit more from each other and see what we can get better at. Municipalities should establish preventive home visits in order to become familiar with their older inhabitants and to ensure that they have access to good services early. I want to challenge the municipalities to take a closer look at the kitchen and food, which we know strengthens the quality of life, and to introduce free user choice. Individuals are better able to determine their own daily lives. They deserve the freedom to choose for themselves and the security of what they need. The Progress Party is proud that we have presented a budget that takes the elderly seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e484	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e489	The representative, Bruun-Gundersen, referred to the elderly as winners in this year's budget, among others. justified by the establishment of an elderly agent. But these have been exposed by the parties. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e494	The Elder Ombudsman will be in place, and I'm glad that the Christian People's Party joined us in the budget conciliation. When the senior Ombudsman comes into office, it will mean that the elderly are given an ombudsman for whom they can complain, in order to ensure that they receive the services they need. We know that older people do not always have relatives who are resource-intensive and have the capacity to speak their case, so it is important to put an elderly representative in place. We are pleased that most parties support us in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e499	Yes, but it was exposed, that was my question. But I am going on to another topic that was raised in the posts of the representative Bruun-Gundersen. It was said that 70,000 fewer – if I heard correctly – are in treatment queues because of free treatment choices. These are the numbers I don't know about, and I think it would have been nice if the representative Bruun-Gundersen could elaborate on how she gets to that number.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e504	There are numbers that are publicly known. It is important for us to get the queues further down. We know that when the Workers' Party ruled the government for eight years, they spent more money on health, but the queues increased. We had a big queue problem when the Right and Advance Party took over the government power in 2013, and we have taken many important steps to get the queues down. We've done that, and it's important for us to keep doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e509	I hear the representative refer to the hospital economy in the draft state budget to be decided today that he is good. We know that the board of Health Møre and Romsdal have decided to cut 200 annual works in the health care unit. The Chairman says the economic situation is very serious and that they have tried to balance the budget for 2018 all year long, without closing. The economy is now so poor that the health agency has to borrow money for wages. In this situation, the additional 200 annual works shall be cut. They're saving 0.5 billion. kr for the new hospital they will build. Isn't the Progress Party and the representative concerned about the hospital economy? Will the representative defend the hospital budget, say it's good now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e515	I assume that the hospital budget has now increased by 11.5 billion. kr. It is an amount higher than the demographic development would suggest. Then it is important that health care businesses give these resources a wise priority. It will always have to give priority to services ahead of bureaucracy. We know that there are major challenges in health businesses in prioritising them. We cannot control this politically, but there is a clear order for health businesses to increase, not reduce the level of activity, and the queues will continue to decline.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e520	I hear the representative say that one expects one to prioritize services, but when one is going to cut 200 annual works in Health Møre and Romesdal, one has to be responsible for the overall development of hospitals when it is the state that owns and it is the Storting that grants the money. To say that this is going to be up to healthcare professionals to do is to disclaim responsibility when we see as drastic cut as is now happening out there, and that businesses have to borrow money for pay. Then we're in a different reality than we've been in the last few years. It's right-wing growth than the demography, yes, but more expensive drugs, etc. and an ABE reform does not extend the money. I have to ask again: is it really so that the Progress Party on the Storting feels it's okay, what's happening out there, and will not do anything – from the Storing's side – to improve the situation in healthcare businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e527	The propulsion party ensures a higher level of income growth for hospitals than the demographic development would be expected. How health businesses prioritise these funds is a clear order and expectation from the Stortinge on; that money should go to the services and treatment of patients. We're going to follow that up. It is important for us that the queues go down, and that the inhabitants of our country get the offer and treatment they need. We are proud that we have brought down the cows in Norwegian health care, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e532	In «Life throughout life» there are very many promises without obligations, but we found one concrete measure: a contribution to the kitchen. But not even there is the Progress Party willing to commit. We thought we would help the government by promoting a proposal for a contribution to the kitchen already in 2019. My question to the representative is simple: Why did the Progress Party vote against the SV proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e537	I think I actually voted in favour of it by mistake. [[muttering in the hall]] Grants to ‘Live your whole life’ will come. It is now important that municipalities have ample time to make local ‘lifelong life’ reforms and give priority to what they feel they need to strengthen. Then there will be funds from the government team gradually. In the Progress Party, we have been extremely concerned about the kitchen for a long time, but it will be a budgetary debate. We hope to get this in place quickly, but I would recommend that the municipalities now start planning the establishment of a new kitchen. Because we know that this is incredibly important for our older people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e544	Replicate cord shift is over
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e549	A few days ago, the government received a public statement on proposals for priorities in the municipal health and care services and for publicly funded dental services. It has the title ‘The most important first’. I expect the Stortinget to have an opportunity to discuss it at a later stage. Prioritizing properly and fairly and prioritizing the most important first is perhaps the very greatest challenge the healthcare system has right now. Norway has marked social health differences. We don't have much of a professional. It is a political responsibility to ensure that we prioritise both professionals and health resources fairly, that health services are distributed according to needs and not according to which healthcare services and patients pay the most, so that we can continue to have a health service that has high confidence in the future – where we can provide equivalent health services to all, regardless of the background and wherever a cage in the country, where there is no ever worse preparedness, that ambulances disappear, that doctors are centralised, that local hospitals are threatened with closure, and where they really want to end. We must give priority to public decentralised health services rather than to private services. The centre party will give priority to the most important first. The most important thing in health policy is public health policy. Most of the public health policy takes place in municipalities. For this reason, the Centre Party is proposing a major strengthening of the local economy. We introduce free fruit and green in the youth spheres, we want an hour of physical activity in the school every day, we increase the rewards for outdoor purposes, we raise the taxes on alcohol and tobacco, and we want to use the school as the prevention arena. As part of public health policy, we also give priority to strengthening efforts to spread antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Antibiotic resistance has been called the health system’s climate crisis. Now we have to decide whether to ensure that our children and grandchildren have access to the same modern medicine that we have, and that the possibilities are not destroyed by resistant bacteria against which there are no effective drugs. The use of antibiotics has fallen in Norway. In the municipal health service we are well on our way to the goal of 30 pst. reduction to which the Centre Party advanced and received its agreement. That's good. But Norwegian hospitals are still far behind in this work. We must also ensure that new types of antibiotics and a financing system are developed to help. Preventing infection is also very important. People need clear information on the risk of infection from hospital treatment abroad or surgical dental treatment in countries with large spread of resistant bacteria. In municipalities, the vast majority of health and care services are provided. The centre party will have a much greater focus on the close health provision of municipalities, in line with the intentions of the cooperation reform. That's why we're strengthening the entire municipal council by 4.4 billion. kr. We give priority to strengthening the midwives service, strengthening the provision of dental care to outsourced groups who are not currently receiving their rights, and strengthening the work on mental health in municipalities. The scheme is a foundation building in the municipal health service. Many municipalities now work hard to get enough determination, and the established authorities consider that they will stop. According to the Medical Association, they notice that the crisis has worsened in the last year. There is also a lack of medical, medical, and prison services. The centre party is not satisfied with the government's bet on the game rules. She was late, and she's too bad. Only 12 out of the 46 million that the government is investing in budget guidance are fresh funds. There is an increase in the recruitment rate of only 15 million. Compared to 2018, we are in what is referred to as a crisis. In addition, 22 million will be taken. kr to the primary health team pilot from the GMP. Big grips don't come. An action plan shall not be due until 2020. The centre party believes that we must give priority to the most important thing first, and the most important thing to do in the municipal health service now is the fixed system. We give priority to the entire general medical field, not just to the fixed medical system. We allow extra funds for more hospital and better prison health services, we have funds for 250 new ALIS settings in addition to the government proposal, 150 new LIS1 settings and two weeks more practice for medical students in the municipal health service. The central party believes that it is an obligation for a nation to make sure that we are somewhat self-sufficient in health professionals. Today, about half of the ligaments are spent abroad. This development we think we have to turn around. We start from this year's budget to prioritise 50 more study places in medicine in Norway in 2019. Health Norway will not go around without voluntary and non-profit organisations. We believe that the government's proposal for a solution to the historic pension costs was far too poor, and there was strong criticism also in the hearing. We support what emerged in the budget agreement, setting a break point for non-pension costs in 2019 and introducing an application-based scheme. We will give priority to support for the work on mental health and drug addiction among non-profit and non-profit organisations, which are making a fantastic effort, such as: The Church's SOS and the project together IOGT. We also increase support for fountain houses. Hospital policy is important for the Norwegian population. It's about preparedness and security for life and health where a cage. We're giving priority to 1 billion. kr in net increase in state resources for the treatment of patients in public hospitals. This is actually necessary, because in health care activities after health care, serious cuts are reported in the operation. In Health More and Romesdal, they will cut 200 years' worth as an immediate measure in 2019. This will clearly go beyond patient provision and preparedness. They have to borrow money to pay wages. It also strengthens in its budget the ambulance service, local hospitals and food supply by 0.5 billion. kr – because we prioritise the most important first. We also have $30 million. to strengthen geriatric competence, which has been a marshlander of the Storting before, but which the government has not followed up. The centre party is concerned about mental health protection. The golden rule, which has been the only measure taken by the government to strengthen this field in the specialist services, has been called a political curse. The use of money has grown five times as fast in somatic matters as in mental health protection since Bent Höie became Minister of Health. The Golden Rule has been discussed over 120 times in Stortinget since 2014, according to an overview from Dagens Medisin, but it has not helped. The centre party is now requesting action from the government of the day. There is little use in reintroducing the golden rule when it is not followed up year after year, or followed up with notional reports of increased activity, which is not a real increase in patient treatment. The capacity for mental health protection is shattered. There are a large number of Corridor Asians, seriously ill patients. There's a problem to talk about. The reduction of bed capacity has gone too far. The centre party has recently put forward a Document 8 proposal to stop bed building in mental health protection and stop the construction of district medical centres. We prioritise mental health protection in our alternative budget. We use ear tags to improve the supply of mental health, to children in child protection, to prisons in Norway and to the provision of student health. We will end the use of input-driven funding in mental health. In order to improve the patient safety work in Norwegian hospitals, the Centre Party proposes that we keep today's reporting system, which is non-punitive. Today, we are making an empty proposal to ask the government to put forward a case for establishing a national pacemaker register, following the revelations that the Evening Post has had in the last few days. We also have a loose proposal in the Chamber on the patient travel arrangements in Health North and improvement of it. The centre party will create a temporary pre-allocation program for a municipal elder. We want to bet on music therapy and have 10 million. kr to introduce new music therapy options in municipalities. We have money for food and food to establish the kitchen in hospitals. We have money for settings that can help increase physical activity, visitation and elderly centres and increase daily activity for elderly home-based patients with dementia, directed by Inn on the tune. In short, we give priority to the most important thing in health policy. With this, I will take up the Centre Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e597	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e604	It is nice to hear the representative Toppe talk about priorities – she was not as happy about the prioritisation message as we are, and priority is important. What characterizes Tops from day to day is that there are no groups that are not going to get more money: we're going to have more doctors, nurses, midwives, we're going to have more ambulances, we're going to have more of everything. Now we hear here that a priority is the most important, but if we look at the budget, it is a fact that the Central Party delivers a weaker budget than the majority parties and a significantly weaker budget than the Labour Party. Kjersti Toppe has simply received less money from his group. So one thing is to have penetration in the media, but would she wish that she had more penetration in her own group, so that the Center Party actually had money in the budget for all the things that she promises from day to day throughout the year? It is today that we are adopting the framework for next year's health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e609	I'm waiting for a personal attack that I don't have enough throughput in my own group. Then I think to myself that if they don't have any other arguments to use against me than trying to use a personal attack – yes, they don't have any other arguments left, and that's quite fine. I am fully committed to our health policy priorities. If that's what we're doing, it's just prioritizing. We give priority to both cuts and bets, and we also have a big stake in the local council, which Right does not have. So one can say that we have a smaller budget than others, I don't fully understand. When it comes to not being happy about the priority message, I'm going to take a long way away from it. We made more suggestions to her, precisely that we wanted to have even more follow-up to the principles that were there, and we also addressed the priorities that now came, from the municipal health service. We're very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e619	That's great, then we're happy. But this isn't a personal attack, this is a description of the fact that whatever the case is the Center Party there and will have more of it and more of it, and there is never enough political will from the Council of State, and there are no groups that are too large or too small to bet on any more. But we're going to finance it, and now it's actually the total framework we have for this, that applies. And as far as specialist health services are concerned, the representative Toppe has called for regulatory emergency times, we're going to have more ambulances, we're going to have more local hospitals, and one is not willing to make any changes to structural grips. We know that it costs money if you're going to have everything everywhere, and to take the specialist health service, it's probably an increase of about 0.5 billion. kr only for expenditure on emergency medicine in the Central Party's alternative budget. Then one has used up a lot of what's the framework for growth next year. So it's not quite in the jump. It has nothing to do with the person Kjersti Toppe, but it has something to do with the way the Center Party acts in the media, in health after health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e624	Thank you for an opportunity to answer your questions. Obviously, when we make our bets, it's also because there will be solutions that can actually make the government save money. We are e.g. Very critical for the huge expansion of a collection of hospitals in Oslo, in Gaustad – I really don't think it will be cheaper than developing today's hospital supply. I also believe that developing local hospitals around is a cheaper way to ensure good specialist health services for the inhabitants than excessive centralisation – where one is not efficient enough in operation, one can also confirm. We're not in all bets, for example. against an old age ban, because we believe that today's patient and user demands should also be a ban on the elderly population. So this is not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e631	The centre party is opposed to the police reform, the municipal reform, the establishment of New Veier, the efficiency of Helfo, and today they are also opposed to the elderly, the project of state-funded care for the elderly and the simplifications of the influenza vaccine. In addition, they have recently also proposed a ban on solarium advertising, cardboard wine and the sale of alcohol without health warnings. Can the representative Toppe understand that the centre party is perceived as a ban party and a party that is fundamentally opposed to change?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e638	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e643	I have so much respect for the representative Toppe and many of the central party's priorities here. I think it's okay that you want more money for health, even if you end up with minus 900 million. kr when end dash is set. However, there is one point in the budget of the Central Party that I do not fully understand. It's cut seven billion. NOK i compensation for VAT. There is a small anomaly in the relationship between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party here, for the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have not cut this in their budgets, but it has done the Center Party. It says that it does so because it contributes to the privatisation and fragmentation of central hospital services. But it is not central hospital services this compensation is actually intended – or have I been wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e650	I thank you for the question. I assume that the representative is talking about neutral VAT in healthcare companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e655	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e660	It'll probably not be a cut. This is what I think I have to do with how to do it in our budget. We've done it the way we've been getting answers to budgetary questions. To the question of why we are opposed to the introduction of neutral VAT: it is precisely because it contributed to the fragmentation of hospital services. It could be canteen drive and cleaning that makes one, unlike before, tend to have money to have it out on offer. We think that it is important that one has a collective responsibility for the entire hospital business. We don't want to contribute to more privatisation of the public. We believe that public hospitals should be a public responsibility. We do not see the need to introduce neutral VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e667	The representative, Tope, has been very commendable about the provision of food and the provision of midwifery services. The central party has put in its budget 20 million. kr for midwife service in the municipalities and has committed funds for 50 new study places in the medical study. We also want to lack nurses in the future – we all know that. In the budget agreement, one should be able to take medical students from abroad in the long term. This is especially true for Stavanger, where there is a new midwife training of 24 places – also because one is meeting that need. In the revised national budget, one has also provided several places of study for nurse training. What have the representatives Toppe and the Center Party done in practice to train more people than they do today? Because we need to reconcile health care needs with education, we need to target it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e676	Thank you for the question. We have been on, together with the Christian People's Party, all the latest proposals, including: to receive a midwife training to Stavanger, and also to see that one can have a medical training in Stavanger in cooperation with the University of Bergen. We're very supportive of that. We may have to increase the educational rate in Norway a lot more than what is also in our budget this year, but we've started. We've got a lot of queues for LIS1 settings. We can't just get rid of more people, we also have to see that those who are there today come through the system. We are also concerned that we need more practice in the community health service. This is a field we're going to do more work on, because we think it's very important that we're aware of it from the Storing's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e687	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e693	Life is unpredictable, and I hope that's a cross-political agreement. Especially related to our health can the most incredible, the most unpredictable and the most brutal suddenly happen. My everyday life at Stortinget began with my friend and friend, grossing-up representative Nicholas Wilkinson, becoming seriously ill. The first few weeks of Stortinget, while trying to learn the routines and how I got to different rooms, I didn't even know if Nicholas was going to survive. Maybe it was stressful, or maybe it's just hard to find the right way on Stortinget. Most of us either know someone who has suddenly become seriously ill, or have experienced it themselves. That's when it suddenly strikes us how vulnerable we are, how fast life can change, and how important health care plays in our lives. It was not to understand that our good, young, healthy, energetic, wise and motivating Nicholas suddenly did not respond to messages, did not take the phone – he who was always there no matter what, he who motivated us to win important battles and motivated us even a little more when we lost important battles. Suddenly one day he was back, but he had lost much of his language after several small blows. He gets better and better for every day that goes, and shows progress for every time I see him. Today I look at the health care system with new eyes, perhaps a little closer to the heart, perhaps with a different kind of gratitude than before. It's good to have a health care system that takes care of us when we get sick. The fact that we contribute to the community, and that the community takes care of us when we need it the most, is the most beautiful thing with Norway. That's exactly what we need to protect when we stand at a time when the differences in power and wealth are increasing, and where the increasing differences are also noticed in the health care system. Health inequalities in Norway are increasing, and the social health disparities in Norway are greater than in many European countries. It can't be that the size of the wallet determines how good health people have. But unfortunately that's the way it is, and that's what we have to take over, and we have to reverse this trend. Healthy food, physical activity and good habits can be learned from children and young people. What you learn in school becomes part of your culture – part of your everyday life, part of your own. Too many in Norway are part of the culture and identity of using the body in nature. Having good and healthy habits is a routine. But for very many, it's not as natural. For this reason, it is important that there be a serious and committed part of training in Norway — because good habits are preventive and improve the quality of life out. 2019 could become the year when there was broad agreement on the importance of prevention work for good health throughout life. It could be the year we re-entered fruit and vegetables in school, when we offered a healthy meal to the young people every day. It could be the year we could definitely say there's going to be an hour's physical activity in school. It could be the year in which prevention was finally committed in the municipalities, and the work of the Public Health Institute was strengthened. Prevention is an important investment for SV. We believe that prevention is better and cheaper than repair. That is why we are counting on these areas in our budget. As I mentioned at the outset, the most unpredictable can happen despite prevention. Then it is important that we take care of the primary health service, the specialist health service and rates on the municipalities. I think 2019 could be the year when we increased the hospital budgets, so that employees were not asked to run faster because of the government's so-called efficiency cut, the year when it was time for the most important thing in the health care system, namely the meeting between the patient and the health staff. This year could be the year when several full-time and permanent jobs were advertised in hospitals and in the municipalities, and we strengthened the maternity care and the municipal midwife service. Short periods of hospitalisation shall be according to the woman's own wishes and adapted to the woman's assumptions and needs. Women in the most vulnerable stages of life, birth and time as a newborn mother, must be able to experience security. Five years with the blue-blue mark. Instead of looking forward, we go backwards into the future. Instead of new, big visions, like a dental reform, where the teeth are finally considered part of the body, we see constant cuts in dental care. It shouldn't be that people have dental frights because of the bill. SV wants dental health into public health. That's the goal we're going to commit to, and we're going to start the phase-in already today. We will expand the public dental service, so that all 19- and 20-year-olds receive free treatment, and that the public should cover 75 pst. of the dental expenditure of young people aged 20-25, while we will make it considerably cheaper for everyone up to 30 years. We want to reintroduce free dental check for the elderly. The most important thing in this reform is that SV will commit itself to an objective that no one will have to pay more than NOK 2500 per year in the long term for dental care. In conclusion, I would like to repeat that we all know someone who has been seriously ill, and some of us have been seriously ill themselves. It is important that we take care of the health care system, which is completely dependent on the employees. Personally, I am grateful to the employees who contribute every day to the health care system, and as a politician, I would like to encourage them to do their job in the best possible way. That may have been the way the first few weeks of Stortinget, when, sadly for my friend Nicholas, I couldn't find the way forward, but with this budget, I'm sure of one thing, and that's in what direction we're going to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e721	Should the representative address the SV's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e726	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e731	The representative Sheida Sangtarash has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e738	When I sat and looked through the SV's proposal for a health budget yesterday, it was – I have to say – a lot to nod and think that we are together here. I am pleased that both the SV and the Workers' Party are committed to strengthening the community, preparing for those who need it the most, and that the wallet should not be essential in terms of access to healthcare. I found many thoughts that I could fully agree with, both in hospitals, in rushes, in mental health and in dentistry. However, in order for the expenditure side to rise in terms of health, it must be a revenue page. That's why it's crucial for the Workers' Party that we have to create to have something to share. I do not doubt the SV's will and ability to share. Sometimes, however, the impression is that SV is better to share than to create, which has been attached. My question to the representative Sangtarash is therefore: How can we be sure that SV will ensure that it is created enough for us to distribute the health efforts to the Workers' Party and SV to demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e747	The Labour Party may not have looked well enough on our budget, where we increase tax revenue considerably more than the Workers' Party does. This is important because we need to focus on the most important issues. With this government, we have a big cleanup job to do. Health is the most important thing. That's why we have a pretty big investment in health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e752	It is interesting to hear the statements of the SV representative, where one learns about how wrong the budget is, and that one goes backwards into the future, when one has not moved on to any significant part of the money from today's government, but has only supplemented what is good in the SV's health budget. That's nice. But my question is about something completely different. The Central Party and the Socialist Left have agreed on the following proposals: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for national production capacity on the vaccines included in the paediatric vaccination programme.’;» We agree that a good supply of vaccines is important, and we will all take care of our people as well as possible. But the production capacity Norway had was dropped when the two batches were placed in the red-green government. I would therefore like to ask the representative from SV what has changed since the red-greens were put in government, since SV is involved in proposing to restore the national production of vaccines, which was dropped when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e764	I have read both our own comments and the proposal we are in favour of. I've also noticed the considerations of the right-hand side around it. I simply believe that this is important. That's the answer I can give.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e769	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e774	Since the last time the Stortinget adopted a health budget, the proposal of the Ministry of Health and Health has passed 200 billion. kr, an increase of 6,4 pst. in relation to the 2018 balance-of-year budget. All in all, today we land at 210.6 billion. kr. It says something about the basic parliamentary consensus relating to health priorities in Norway that the alternative budgets of the Workers' Party and the SV only increase the overall framework by less than half a percent. Thus, there seems to be a fairly broad consensus that the share of the health budget in the total state budget is fairly constant, and that much of the disagreement in health priorities is marginal. In line with this, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for a good cooperation this year that has soon passed, and I would like to pay tribute to the representative Sangtarash and send a greeting back to the representative Nicholas Wilkinson. However, this good atmosphere does not mean that the prospects for the development of Norwegian public health are only bright. Trends in income in the next few decades may lead to the need to cut health services we take for granted today. In the course of four decades, the number of 70-year-olds increases by double. In the 1950s, the number of 100-year-olds in the country was approx. 50, today more than 1,000 have reached this age. We know that the majority of the budget is charged to older people. In the longer term, there are limits to how much treatment in our hospitals can be done outpatiently. The growth in the number of older people has caused some of our leading geriatrics to question whether we are not now reaching a ceiling on how much it is possible to reduce the number of sick people — perhaps we have now taken out the efficiency gain that is possible through specialist care without accommodation. We are experiencing increased challenges in mental health. We see it, among other things. in increasing suicide rates and in student health statistics, published in the autumn of the so-called SHoT survey. It shows that one in four students now reports mental health disorders — eight years ago, the figure was one in six. Young people are struggling more and more. This is disturbing. It's old learning that's behind the relationship between psyche and soma. We know that mental challenges can quickly lead to physical suffering. On the contrary, we know that in many cases somatic plagues can be kept in chess through mental mastering training. This government reintroduced the Golden Rule in 2014, as it has pointed out. However, recent doubts have been raised as to whether the golden rule has anything at all — it is a bluff, it has been claimed in an interview with Dagens Medisin. The figures referred to in that paper are of old age, and three out of four regional health establishments now appear to have met the requirements for 2018, which is a significant improvement. Within the TSB, the rule appears to have been complied with. However, I would like to draw up a statement from the trusted psychologists at Oslo University Hospital, Birgit Andederaa, who put their finger on the very methodology behind the golden rule. She says in an interview: "I think there's a notion that when you give money to somatics, you know what you get, but when you give to mental health protection, you don't know what you get." She even suggests that there are trends in creative accounting by regional health businesses. It may be that the method of achieving the target itself requires further review. The Minister for Health has for several years expressed dissatisfaction with the arrangements and results of the RHFs in relation to the Golden Rule, and he has the Left with him in this concern. There may be a need for a thorough review of both parameters and methodology to assure us that our health care system meets the requirements of the Stortinget. I am so glad that the Minister of Health has said so clearly that he continues to prioritise mental health protection. At the end of the day, it is still on the results we have to measure – not on the money we put in the measures. The health policy of the left has always been clear on the emphasis of primary health care, prevention and early intervention. In this way, I am pleased that the decision-makers are now getting a further boost – there is an effort left will work to strengthen in the years to come. However, the primary health service is more than the number of general practitioners, and the policies of the Left shall be identified, among others. clarity of the increase in prevention services such as health stations, school health services, health nurses and other occupational groups continuously recruited in the municipalities. Kindergarten bet is also part of this. That last round we could raise 4 million. kr for increased investment in font houses, is an action that carries a clear left stamp, and I am particularly pleased, especially on behalf of the many who now have the opportunity to enter into the labour market after having had mental challenges of different kinds. The efforts in the fields of mental health, care, family protection and prevention have long been common to the values of the intermediate parties in health and social policy. Many of the achievements of the Christian People's Party in the year's budgetary settlements in the health sector could just as well come as a result of the social liberal priorities of the Left. It promises well for future negotiations on the expansion of the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e803	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e809	The representative of the Left just spoke about prevention and active public health work. At the same time, however, it is the government – with the Left in – that has cut budget lines that are just going to public health work and prevention. In Norway, social health inequalities are increasing, and the fight against obesity is one of our major health issues. The budget has a fragile public health profile and is exposed to measures that could make a difference. I wonder, has the left changed position, or is this an expression of the lack of permeability of the large parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e814	I do not, of course, agree that this budget is 'just for' a public health profile. On the contrary, I believe that the bet on e.g. ageing in the context of ‘lifelong life’ is a significant contribution in this way. I am calling for a complete set of accounts for how it is possible to claim that the public health profile in this budget is weaker than that provided by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e819	It's just going into the numbers and looking. In the public health chapter, we see that more items have been reduced. But I want to look at the cultural spaser stick. The cultural walking stick was important for the elderly just to get good cultural experiences. But after the government decided to transfer the allocation to the framework grant to the county councils, the government itself says that it is not possible to trace how it has gone with the cultural spa. In the notes we can read that the Left is not afraid that older people do not receive cultural experiences. Then I wonder: Do the Left and the representative believe that older people in institutions around Norway bathe in a variety of cultural experiences?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e826	No, I don't think so. Now I'm busy with other walking sticks than the cultural ones right within this budget. But I have to say that the effort that is now being made through ‘Life All Life’, which is about getting up good suggestions on how a worthy old age can be lived in the future, is a respect for it. I can only see that the Workers' Party at last has to find out that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e831	I believe that the representative is concerned about mental health protection and that the golden rule has not worked after he was reestablished. I want to ask the representative whether he and Left come up with solutions and demands to the Minister of Health about how the rule can work after the intention, or whether Left thinks that one can remove the whole rule, because he has not had the effect he should have had, and that we see creative activity management and reporting to achieve the goal. Does the representative from the left trust the golden rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e838	I think there's a lot of consensus that we need the golden rule. It has been expressed consistently how important it is. The Minister of Health has also said this himself. The representative Toppe has probably come to realize that the Left is a government party. I can promise that we will address this within the framework of this government cooperation, and I feel that the Minister of Health has great respect for our constant debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e843	This has been debated in the government without the Left, from 2014 to now. My question is how hard the Left will be to give priority to mental health protection. One example is Health More and Romesdal, which now has to cut 200 annual works as an immediate measure in 2019. How should the golden rule work when it comes to cutting? Does it not relate to the total hospital economy? Is the golden rule fulfilled if one cuts less in mental health than in the somatic state? How long does the Left have so that the Golden Rule becomes a proper steering tool for the specialist services?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e850	To the representative, Toppe, we have something like two years to do something about this, and I can promise the representative that we're going to do it. So I'm recording, as I mentioned in my post, that we're on the right track. Three out of four regional health establishments now report black and non-red figures. I think it's still reason to go into those numbers, and I'm going to do that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e855	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e860	The budget on which the government parties and the Christian People's Party have agreed further builds upon the objective of creating the patient's healthcare. The budgetary authority shows that health is a field where the four parties are able to apply together for good solutions, and where the political consensus is great. The government, in its six budgets, has provided for a significantly higher level of activity in hospitals than the previous government has managed through its eight budgets. Next year, there will be a 1.7 pst increase in patient treatment. Demographic development alone indicates a need for increased patient treatment of 1.3 pst. The draft budget therefore provides room for more patient treatment, new medicines and large investments. As politicians, we have a duty to think from a generational perspective. That's why it's important that we use the space we have today to invest for the future. Better use of ICT is needed to realise the patient’s healthcare and to achieve the objective of one citizen — one journal. Increased digitisation places great demands on national coordination and significant investment in the coming years. With this budget, we continue to expand and maintain important infrastructure, and we invest in new hospitals. The government is proposing 575 million. kr for the establishment of the Health Platform, which is a programme to establish common ICT solutions for specialist health services and municipalities in central Norway. Furthermore, I guess we're proposing 77 million. kr to provide national eHealth solutions. We are proposing funds for the launch and establishment of: new hospital in Hammerfest and Narvik proton centers at Haukeland University Hospital and Radium Hospital Together with the Christian People's Party, the government prioritises mental health and the drugs field highly. The contingency plan for the drug field is followed up by an additional 331.4 million. kr. Self-esteem should not prevent young people from getting help with mental health problems. We are therefore proposing to increase the age limit for self-employment in outpatient paediatric psychiatric clinics to 23 years of age and in youth psychiatric teams to 30 years of age. The government is proposing 50 million. SEK about 120 more psychological work in the municipalities. With this, we have arranged for all municipalities to receive grants to recruit psychologists before the legal obligation to have such skills comes into force in 2020. Furthermore, the government parties and the Christian People's Party agree to grant 120 million. kr to health care centre and school health service. We now see good results from this policy. In the past, public health policy was seen to be the basis for an extended life span. Now good health services are pointed to as the main reason we live longer. Since the government joined, there have probably been 70,000 fewer waiting in hospital queues. In the second tertiary this year, the average waiting time for all disciplines was 58 days. This is a 13-day decrease compared to 2013. The proportion of delay was 2.2 pst. in the second tertiary 2018. There's a decrease of 4.2 percentage points compared to 2013. We have so far introduced 28 package steps for cancer. These work well for many cancers. In other areas, efforts need to be improved. Package trajectories for acute stroke have been introduced in 2018, and package trajectories for the rehabilitation phase of stroke patients are under work. In 2019, we will start implementing the first package for mental health and alcohol. Recent challenges to the fixed medical system have become very clear, in particular in terms of capacity and recruitment. With the agreement between the government and the Christian People's Party, 64 million will be granted in 2019. kr for the recruitment of permanent staff and a total of 219 million. to measures in the general medical field. Tripartite cooperation with the Medical Association and the KS, which in its time was abolished by the previous government, has been reestablished, and more investigations on funding models and educational positions are under way. Now we're going to have a close dialogue on the challenges and find solutions to improve the determination system. In the next few years, we'll have to prioritise tougher budgets than we've been used to. The conversion we're now facing, we can't afford to get out of it. If we are to achieve the objective of a sustainable welfare society, we are dependent on solutions that can close the gap between the need for resources and the availability of them. It's about working smarter, using new technology, and not least mobilising the patient's own resources. This is absolutely necessary when we are going to continue to work in the next few years to create patients' healthcare and ensure a sustainable welfare society for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e886	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e892	The need for a good service in mental health protection is greater than ever. If the Council of State is to respond to these formidable societal challenges with the orthodox ‘golden rule’ every time it is asked, we have a problem. Today's Medisin has looked at how the priority rule is after five years, and as we all know – based on the debate here earlier – it is discouraging. All health regions had stronger growth in somatics than in mental health protection from 2013 to 2017. Governments have said that he is a pottery, while there has been a large decrease in the number of daily places and annual work. Now, the representative of Stensland said that the one who's mad doesn't get people with him. How does the Council of State think that the combination of acidic and golden formulations should do this better when we know so far that the golden rule has not worked according to purpose?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e899	I totally agree. If my only answer to the priority of mental health was the golden rule, I would have had a problem. But luckily, we have a much bigger answer than that. Not least, unlike the Workers' Party, we have been committed to legalising demands for psychological competence in the municipalities. We have granted money for these psychologists to come into place now – not least we will end it in the budget that we are dealing with today. Nearly 2 000 more annual work in the fields of mental health and drug use have been carried out in the municipalities during this government. We took over a situation where the municipality's offers to children and young people in mental health and drug abuse had become increasingly poor each year on the Labour Party's watch. Now we see the strongest increase ever measured. We've seen that the golden rule is not met, but it's worked. In 2018, three out of four regional health businesses are on track to achieve the target of cost growth in mental health for adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e908	I hear the council answering for the municipal health service a question about a rule that he has introduced for the specialist health service. I just want to encourage you to take the advice of the representative of Stensland to smile – and at least believe that this can be resolved. But I have another question. It's about the food supply at Helgeland, because in the birth department in Lake Sandness, it's going against record years in the number of births. But the same day as baby no. 300 for the year came to the world, there was also a report suggesting that the hospital be closed. Working on a new hospital structure in Helgeland, we know, but how we intend to take care of the food supply in such a long-term geographical area is not yet clear. The size of the population has recently decided to stop the centralisation of food departments. How has the Council of State planned to ensure the provision of food in Helgeland for a population who will lose an emergency hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e915	I'll answer the representative's question. The representative's question was whether the golden rule was the only measure we had in mental health. And I told you that it's not. But I also replied that the golden rule works – even if it is not fulfilled. Then I'm going to be angry and angry all the way until the health regions are able to meet the requirements I'm making in this area, because there's nothing to smile about that you're not able to give priority to those patients who actually have the greatest needs in our healthcare. With regard to the offer on Helgeland, the representative has the right to work to look at the hospital structure there. It works well with anchoring, with local processes. And as the representative knows, that decision will come to my table when Health Nord has come up with its recommendation. Then, of course, the questions raised by the representative will also be taken into account in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e922	It is important to ensure food security in Helgeland when changes to the acute hospital structure occur. The Minister of Health knows this very well. But there is also another challenge that could arise when you finally choose the location of a new hospital in Helgeland. If the emergency hospital is added to Mo in Rana, it will be very far for them in the south of Helgeland to the nearest emergency hospital to which they are going to sue. Now we have an emergency hospital in Namsos, which is going to be geographically shorter. And there are already significant concerns as there have been signs from Health Mid-Norway that they are only obliged to dimension their hospital services for the population within the borders of Health Mid-Norway. The Council of State sees this border challenge between the regional health companies Health Nord and Health Mid-Norway, and how it has been intended to secure the population of South-Helgeland, given that... [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e929	Councillor Höie – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e934	Now the representative is far inside what is an investigative work. However, all the options discussed in Helgeland will, in any case, improve the specialist health service in Southern Greece, because what is contained in all the options is the creation and extension of a district medical centre in Brønnøysund, which is not at that level today. So there, no matter how solutions are chosen, it'll be a better offer. We also see that in the debate – not least from the Brønnøysund side – it is clear. Then I'll warn you not to reduce the patient base in Health Nord. We have a university hospital and regional hospital in Tromsø that needs the population base that they have today, in order to have a good, comprehensive offer for the whole population in North Norway. If we move part of that population base to Central Norway, under St. Olav's hospital, it will challenge the University Hospital in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e941	It is known that there has been a surge in a national treatment register for pacemakers from the heart of Oslo hospitals that can work across health regions. Today it is up to each hospital to have an overview of patients with risk implants, and I am aware that it has been tried to develop such a register at OYS, but it has not been clear. The heart classes in Oslo say they are very concerned about patient safety. The centre party has a loose proposal in the hall today to create such a treatment register for pacemakers. The question is whether the Council of State sees such a register as appropriate and whether it will take the initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e946	Today we have national quality records for both heart starter and pacemaker. It is also covered by the Health Register Act. We have not decided whether we should also set up a national treatment register for the same purpose, but there are no obstacles in the Patient Journal Act that this can be established across healthcare companies in the health region. The core journal requirement states that implants are critical health information to be provided in the core journal. With regard to the technical solutions, which I understand have been much of the discussion related to Oslo University Hospital, health regions are responsible for assessing which technical solutions are most appropriate. It is also important to bear in mind that the new regulation to which Norway is linked through the EU and which enters into force in 2021 requires traceability, including information on each product. Hospitals shall also be able to track both patients and devices afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e955	I see it as a positive answer, and I hope that we get a case for Stortingen about this, so that we can go into this important work. I have a follow-up question about another thing, which applies to the golden rule. It has been looked up, among others. In today's Medicine, what they call the glava effect for better statistics, is that one in a hospital in Oslo isolated some examination rooms, which meant that one received 16 pst. increase in activity – these rooms were not approved for that type of treatment before, because they were not soundproof enough – but no more treatments. And another example is that one registered two measures when one had a mother and a child meeting at the BUP. Does the Council of State see any possibility to prevent such creative statistics and reporting in order to comply with the Golden Rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e962	The way to measure the golden rule has changed following the example to which the representative refers, where investment costs were calculated. It's also to get a fairer comparison between somatic and mental health. The Golden Rule is assessed by three factors. It's both activity, costs and waiting time, and it's the sum of the three that will determine whether you meet the rule at regional level. I also read in the case that some of the examples of so-called tricking that the representative here points to were turned down and not implemented when it was notified – and I am pleased about that. It is my opinion that we need to review the golden rule to ensure that it is well operated. For this reason, a joint mission will be undertaken by the Health Regions and the Health Directorate to do so in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e972	Now the golden rule has been mentioned quite many times here, and that the council has been mad – and that if he's mad, it doesn't help anything. I'm actually one of those people who's pleased that the Council of State is dissatisfied with this. Misunderstand me correctly – I think it is important that you are dissatisfied when you set goals you want to achieve. I have a question for the Council of State, and that is: does he, as SV does, think that it may have something to do with political governance? I remember, among other things: Bent Höie himself was critical of the health business model when he was in opposition. So I wonder: does the Council of State agree with SV that it is time to look at the health company model, and that health companies must be subject to direct political governance?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e979	I can promise the representative that health regions are under direct political control. There must be no doubt about it. The assignments they get, they get from me. They are determined politically. These include: part of what we are discussing today. What is adopted here today, the leaders from the Storting, is being operationalised and passed on to health regions. I also feel that I am clear about the golden rule, giving results. That's why we see a different development in target achievement in 2018 than we did in 2017 in the field of mental health, but I'm not going to give up on it. I am pleased that the representative agrees that we politicians should also express it when we are not satisfied with the results that we get, but it will not change my view that we need a priority rule. If not, mental health and alcohol will always lose against other health treatments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e992	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e997	I guess we all remember the sad story of Karius and Bactus who lived in Jens' teeth. But Jens went to NATO, and Karius and Bactus had to find a new place to live, sailing on a fleet out on the sea. This story could have ended sadly for Karius and Bactus, but fortunately for them, the Solberg government came to their rescue. Now it was supposed to end with dentists and toothbrushing. They could live safely in their new home, in the teeth of a boy named Bent. Tooth health is more than teeth. Dental health is also about physical and mental health. If physical or mental health fails, we now have a system in which the community stands up for you to a great extent. If dental health fails, we just have it to a little bit. The poor network of Norway has stated: ‘In Norway today, most people have good teeth, so it becomes very stigmatizing to lack more teeth or to have large infections. Too many people find it difficult to get a job." The poor network of Norway also described a situation where people who could have saved a tooth chose to pull it, because, as they pointed out, saving a tooth can cost up to $30,000, but when you just pull it and don't replace it, it might cost $1,500. Although today more money is spent on dental health than before, this government has cut close to 400 million at the same time. kr in the support of dental health. Then it goes in the wrong direction. One example of the government's cut policy is when they in the state budget for 2018 would save 30 million. to tighten up the support for dental treatment for persons with «high self-sufficiency», «permanent illness» or «permanent disability». Now it turns out that you can save a whole 150 million. kr on this item in 2018. So as if the cut wasn't initially petty enough, the government is now probably saving five times as much on this vulnerable group as they said first. From 2019, they will cut more than 50 million more into the support for teeth, despite the fact that they have said in the government statement that they will ‘gradually extend the shielding systems’. In this way, the government parties and the Christian People's Party budget appear to be quite toothless. In this idyll, Karius and Bactus have lived quite happy days, despite the fact that they had some traumatic experiences with them from the time they lived in the teeth of Jens and were exposed to the sea – experiences they have not been able to process, since the government is unable to fulfill the golden rule of mental health. But then one day they were abruptly torn out of this blue-blue idyll: over 470 million. kr to strengthen dental health, but most for those who have the least. Of course, Karius and Bactus were horrified when they read about the Workers' Party's alternative state budget one morning at the lunch table. But then they found out what they had done when the Workers' Party had promoted their representative proposal to strengthen Norwegian dental health. They had cried, and they had been heard by him now they lived with. And again they began to shout: Don't do as the Workers' Party says, Bent, don't do as the Workers' Party says! And it's no wonder that they were terrified, because the Workers' Party closes all the holes the government has created in the dental field, in its budget. We say no to cuts in the reimbursement benefits for those who are entitled to it, and we say no to cuts for those who need dental regulation. Number shows that 68 pst. of whom between 3 and 18 years of age were surveyed by the public dentistry last year. For 19- and 20-year-olds, this proportion fell to 42 pst. When you're 19, you have to start paying yourself, and many 19-year-olds don't have a very good economy. Therefore, the Workers' Party says that it is time to extend the arrangements with a free dentist to those who are 19, 20 and 21 years old. And we'll give you half the price even the year you're 25. That's good prevention and a good contribution to your teeth being part of your body all your life. We also know that many cancer survivors experience major oral challenges as a result of their cancer. The repercussions can also cause them to lose part of their income because they no longer can stand in full employment. That's why we've done 50 million. to improve dental support schemes for persons with selected diseases, including cancer survivors. With the Labour Party budget, more people would have good reason to smile. Unfortunately, only Karius and Bactus are smiling at the government's dental budget and have presented the Christian People's Party. While many common people still feel that they have to walk around and hide their smile, there are rumors that Karius and Bactus are promised praise with syrup on for Christmas. And who knows – if Bent still doesn't want to do as the Workers' Party says, to bet on his teeth, it may be that at a time of historically low birth rates, there has been a family increase, both at Karius and Bactus, when we meet here again for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1026	Computer science and technology permeates our everyday lives, and changes are accelerating. Conversion is demanding, it is said, but we take a long look back, we all have the ability to convert. Norway needs policies that take care of the quality of our society, small differences, good welfare arrangements and opportunities for everyone. In the Right, we see that we need to change to keep going. We depend on increasing productivity in Norway if we're going to be able to maintain value creation and preserve the welfare state as we know it today. Well-being must be developed and financed. We need new and smarter technologies to create a health care system that is resilient. So we're going to allow $1.7 billion. kr to new IT and digitisation measures in the 2019 government budget. This is one of the greatest efforts of the time on public sector digitisation projects. In addition, the government saw $9.7 billion. kr for research and innovation. It's a real growth of 1.9 pst. Norway needs a solid prioritisation of funds that can contribute to the transformation of our business. Proper competences are also important. Competence reform Lifelong learning receives a commitment to the budget proposal with about 130 million. kr. This should include, inter alia: to develop the flexible provision of continuing training in digital competences. The health sector needs technology founders. An important step for this is to motivate girls for technological education as well. Better use of health data will give us great benefits for society. The government therefore proposes in this budget that 40 million be allowed. to implement the health analysis platform and the development of joint technical services for health regulators. Data protection and good information security are fundamental prerequisites. Norway is among the most advanced countries in digitisation, and Norwegian primary with Norwegian developed systems were among the first in the world to use electronic journal systems. The government is continuing its work with one resident, one journal, and the health platform should not only be a journal, but a system to replace many hundreds of existing systems. In order to provide future healthcare, Norway needs a journal solution based on common architecture, standards and interfaces, an open and supplier-independent system, so that many suppliers can compete with and compete for the best solution, a solution that works logically as one solution, but consists of different partial solutions from many different suppliers, without silos and monopoly systems. Right is a party that believes in technology and knowledge. We need to provide space for research and development of new solutions where also blocked and artificial intelligence can help solve today's challenges in new ways. The government strengthens the rights of research and enabling technologies, technologies that represent a new approach to traditional integration architecture, information exchange and processing. There will be a need for change, and therefore we also need good leadership, central governance and standardisation to coordinate these changes. ICT systems shall not only be installed and developed; all parties must be set up for testing, failure, learning and reassessment. That is why we are also forced to recognise that innovation requires risk-taking, and risk-taking needs to be credited.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1047	Norway has built a welfare society over many decades, which is incredibly good, which we need to take care of, and which we need to develop further. Next year's government budget, we're going to phase in 231 billion oil crowns. In comparison, the budget of the Ministry of Health and Health is 210 billion. kr. The fact that Norway can spend that money on these budgets says something about how extremely important the oil industry has been. It also says that we have a large industry in Norway that contributes with tax revenue in order to finance this. We live longer, and it's not a problem, it's amazing. It allows us to keep our parents longer. That means that children can be with older generations longer and learn, hear and share in understanding the society we have. Sickness that previously led to safe death can now be lived with. New technologies and new drugs allow more people with diseases that previously meant pain and aggravated quality of life to live well now. I think the cycle of cancer packages and what has been done by this government is a good example of something that has helped to improve the service for those who are concerned. It's so important to get the help you need when you get in such a situation. Waiting, being insecure and being afraid is a terrible situation to be in. That's why you have to get quick help. Much is good, but much must also be better. I've spent a lot of time traveling around the country and meeting people who don't experience getting the help they need – despairing users, despairing relatives and many who feel they're standing against a system that doesn't help, but also makes life difficult. That is why I am pleased that we, for example, are doing this. have been given state-funded care, for the municipalities that are now in the project, the four who are trying out our model, are brilliantly satisfied. Hobøl, Lillesand, Os in Hordaland and Stjørdal are brilliantly satisfied. The users are satisfied, the relatives are satisfied, and those who work in these services are satisfied. And even though it might not have made the impression on the representative Kjerkol to hear about the experience that employees had, it makes a big impression on me. Hearing that people who used to sit and hurt their stomachs when they went home, because they knew they didn't give the users enough help, now they know that with a good conscience they've given them enough help, makes the impression. That is why I am so glad that this budget actually adds that several municipalities will have the opportunity to participate in the project. It will be good for the municipalities and not least for those people who need our help. Life throughout life is an important reform, because it is about being able to live even when you are older and needy. That is why I very much expect the government to deliver on what is involved in the kitchen. There are many municipalities that now want to look at this by getting the kitchens back, and that's something I think will be amazing. To be in Ørsta and to be in Fromand and get served delicious, good food, with good smell, well prepared, in perfect surroundings – it means so much to those who are going to eat this food. It means good nutrition, and it means increased joy of life. I am also very pleased with the elderly representative, and I believe that with the agreement that we have concluded with the Christian People's Party, it will be even better, because it will be a separate representative who will speak the matter of the elderly. So to ALS, which is one of the diseases that has made the most impression on me -- the cruel disease that breaks down people, which causes you to lose functions and finally to get strangled. I'm so glad we got a few million in place that these can travel on rehabilitation trips abroad and get sun on the body. It will improve their quality of life. There's so little we can do for them, but we can do this, and I'm glad we got it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1066	It is an important objective for our government to give its citizens a comprehensive and, not least, good offer, tailored to the needs and wishes of the individual. The Government Parties and the Christian People's Party have agreed on a budget that supports this objective. I am pleased with the good cross-political cooperation on the "lifelong life" reform. The reform should help our elderly to live active lives, while ensuring that they receive good help when they need it. We also know that relatives do a great job for their older people. Through the reform, we emphasise that they should be provided with both guidance and, not least, relief, and the government is now working on its own family strategy. Furthermore, the reform provides for employees to use their skills where they are best. So the government is proposing $48 million. to assist municipalities in the implementation of the reform. This is the ‘batch’ mentioned by the representative of Kjerkol — not the means for the actions themselves, but to get the municipalities to work on finding their good solutions. The government is concerned that elderly people in need of a nursing home will receive this. That is why we have prepared the State grant scheme for which the municipalities can apply. Now the state covers up to 70 pst. the cost of investing in lucky day care facilities. This has contributed to the almost doubling of the activities of the grant scheme compared to the period during the red-green scheme. Therefore, municipalities should now know their visit time. We want to further strengthen the quality and capacity of care services. To this end, the budget provides for grants to approximately 1500 more and better lucky day care centres, and not less than 450 new day activities places for residents with dementia. For the government, this is about providing our older good services, which they deserve. For the government, it has also been important to look at more solutions to improve services. This is why the state funding of care services started in 2016. We have good experience so far, including: improved interaction and control in municipalities. Better decisions are taken, and there is increased user involvement. In addition, experience shows that employees are given increased competence through the experiment. The Government therefore proposes to extend and extend the experiment for the six municipalities already participating and for the municipalities with which they are to join. We also propose that the experiment be extended by six new municipalities from 2020. I am very pleased that a separate national representative of the elderly will be established from 2020. This is historic. This is Norway’s very first national representative for the elderly. The parental representative shall ensure that our elderly are heard and that the rights of the elderly are respected in society. Once I've traveled around talking to older people, there's a word that goes back, and it's safe. We therefore ensure that establishments in the health and care services in the municipalities will be required to notify the State Health Authority directly if serious events occur in the care of the elderly. At the same time, we also give older and relatives the right to alert in case of serious incidents, directly to the Health Authority. Investing in public health yields valuable returns. As Minister of Older People and Public Health, I am very concerned to see the context of promoting the health of people at all stages of life, not least the need for a good old age. Physical, mental and social mastering are the keys to a good life. The Public Health Programme allows municipalities to carry out local development work to promote the health and quality of life of the population. In the programme, children and young people are a priority target group, and the cohesion of social inequalities in health is an important ambition. The government will present a new public health report to spring. Here, we should focus on the relationship between physical and mental health and make cross-sectoral efforts visible. In addition, we will work on our own programme and strategy to prevent solitude. Volunteering will be an important partner in this work. Without their efforts, we will not be able to succeed. As Minister of Older People and Public Health, it is important for me to ensure that our elderly people get a safe and worthwhile old age. By prevention, we guarantee the individual’s ability to live a good life – not half his life, but all his life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1091	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1096	Here at Stortinget we have established a cross-political network of care for the elderly, and in the previous meeting we received an important feedback from the councillor in Stavanger, who asked us politicians if we really understood what kind of pressure we put on health services when we did not fully finance recruitment standards in other sectors of the municipality. It is health that must take the entire bill for the efficiency of the municipal budget, he said. What does the Minister of Senior Citizens think about the fact that the health budget — and not least the care of the elderly — becomes the balancing item for municipalities when the government does not fully finance other reforms?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1103	In Norway, we have great faith in local democracy. This means that it is up to our politicians – whether they are Labour Party representatives, Progress Party representatives or Right-wing representatives – in each local government or city council to choose their priorities in the municipalities. Then it's also important to see contexts. We see it when it comes to prevention. We see it when it comes to how the money is spent in the municipalities. We've also seen a couple of scary examples. I'm not going to mention which municipalities, because it's immaterial. But this has to do with the fact that each local politician is conscious of his responsibility when he is chosen to take on the Ombudsman's role, that he actually prioritizes the proper use of the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1109	Yes, seeing contexts is an important key here, but that's exactly what you don't get, because it's the bulk of the population who have decided to have these manning standards, but chooses not to finance them. It is then not possible for local politicians to see the context, because it is only in health and elderly policy that money can be saved to finance the recruitment standards. What will the Minister for Older People and Public Health do to fight to ensure that older people's policies will also receive more money and not become a balancing item in the municipal budgets, as it is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1116	We have just presented a quality reform for the elderly, «life all my life», which I know the representative Moflag is well aware of, and it is just adding up that we need to think about new things. Because if we don't do it in the municipality, we have to use 30 pst. by our students, our young people who are learning, into this sector, and it turns out that we have to think new. We have managed to get 5,000 more annual jobs in the care sector only during 2017. In recent years, we have increased transfers in the budget by 4 billion in 2018 at the latest. extra kroner for the municipalities. So there's funds there. Therefore, it is so important that the municipalities give the right priority. With the new reform – and we need to help the municipalities get started, with 48 million. kr – I am absolutely convinced that by rethinking, using the volunteering, using the width thinking, working across, tearing down the walls that are between, and getting rid of the silo thinking, we will succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1125	That's exactly what's the problem -- that it's 48 million. kr set aside for this purpose. The working party has over three billion. More to the municipalities in our alternative budget, which means that local politicians can really give priority to this area. You can't make a good old age policy with carrots alone. You actually have to bet, and you have to realize that good care costs money. I wonder if the Minister for Older People and Public Health will fight for the health and elderly budget to go further in the time to come, and say that we cannot just have recruitment standards in kindergarten and school and expect the health and care sector to run faster and pay the bill for a tight municipal budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1130	I'm going to work every day to get more money, for this is the area I burn the most for. But it is such that these 48 million will only enable the municipalities to choose correctly. Then the later budgets, as the municipalities have managed to pick out what they are good and bad, will show the funds they can apply for, and there will be earmarked funds to go to just good care for the elderly in the municipalities. Both the representative Moflag and I would probably like to have a crystal ball that we could insert into. At least I'll make sure to work as much as I can to get money. The next budgets will show that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1137	‘Life for the rest of your life’ is according to the government a ‘Reform for the Affluent’ – nothing less. The message says that one should have arrangements to take care of those who provide care, so that they do not wear out, but as we heard in the previous line, there is not a penny for this work. Ein has a strategy. There are unlikely many out there who feel that they are not valued, not being heard, not having good enough download, not being entitled to training, not having good enough financial arrangements, and who expect, at least when there is a reform, that one had mentioned them more. My question is, what time does the touching strategy come, and what is the main focus of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1142	I am concerned about the role of the relatives. We know that relatives carry out 100 annual works per year. That's why it's an important group to attend to, and as I also said in my post, it's important that this group doesn't tire out. The ‘lifelong’ reform is just about how we can work better across the board to relieve relatives. The family strategy that I mentioned, we've started working on, and we want to work for it to land as soon as possible. This is an area where we see that for every day that goes, we are closer to solving the challenges. I therefore hope to get it in place in 2019, without having to figure it out, but my goal is to get something out in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1147	First I want to say that it was probably 100,000 annual works and not 100 annual works the Council of State referred to. It is a significant effort, which is as great as the public effort is – or at least has ours – in the health service. I would assume, even though the Council of State was not concerned, that economic arrangements will and should be an important part of such a strategy. We have the care allowance, which we have had for many years, but which we do not know works after the intention. There are very large differences from municipality to municipality, and there are very large differences from city to city. In general, there will be no pay with which care providers are actually satisfied. She's getting too weak. Does the Council have an intention to strengthen the care pay system, which is now called care assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1154	Yes, we're working cross-sectorally with the departments in all areas. That means that I have close cooperation with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in some of those areas. In the case of relatives, the 450 places of day-time activities that we are now providing are part of this. Many of the relatives themselves see that being able to get relief — that people living together in the household have the opportunity to come up with a daily activity offer — is very, very important. I want to see extra for those municipalities that also give this on a Saturday. There are many of the relatives who say it's okay in the middle of the week, but on a Saturday there may be other areas you want to get out of, and that those living in the household need to get this daily activity offer. Of course, there are also other measures that we are very concerned about, both care services and other measures in the municipalities. We're going to fix it as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1163	First of all, I want to say that I hope that the related strategy is not just about adults who have old relatives. I also sincerely hope that this strategy is about children and young people who are related, especially young children and young people. But my question is that we live longer and longer, we're healthier, while those who are sick in the older generation, they're really sick, they live longer at home, and they end up in a nursing home. They're sicker, and they require more competence. The interaction reform shows that the hospital prints out non-completed, but printable, and the municipalities and hospitals have to accept. It requires security both for the sick and for the employee. What will the Council of State do to ensure the competence needed in the future for increasingly ill patients in Norwegian nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1170	We are committed to improving the interaction reform, as it exists. We all agree on that. We need to establish a better relationship between health companies, hospitals and what is happening in municipalities. So that's exactly what we agree on. In August a NOU was delivered, which is called the most important first. There are just the criteria that have to do with resource, and not least with severity, that will matter. Now we're going to work on it. It has to be consulted. The Christian People's Party will then be guaranteed to be in that loop. I think that lifting this area out in the municipalities, being able to prioritize right and seeing where one has to put the effort in order to succeed, is the key to being able to solve the challenges of this particular group, those who are seriously ill, have complex challenges and a complex disease image. In terms of knowledge out there, through Competence 2020, we've spent 385 million. kr only in the current budget, to increase the competence of those out there to lift this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1179	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1185	From a budget of 210 billion. I would like to mention in particular a contribution of NOK 150 000. This is one of the smallest items in the budget, but I want to mention it in particular, because this small amount means so much to them for which the money is intended. More than 100,000 Northmen have been involved as soldiers and policemen in foreign operations on behalf of Norway since World War II. Norway has been involved in sharp conflicts in more than 40 countries. Not all the soldiers or police officers we sent out came all the way home again. For me, it is important to lift up those who are struggling after their stay abroad. That is why I am very pleased that the majority parties – the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People’s Party – prioritised the desire of the Swedish Federation of SIOPS for support for an important course. I would also like to pay tribute to the Workers' Party, which included the same amount in its alternative budget. At the same time, I am surprised that SV did not find room for this small amount in his budget, as this party in another case showed great concern for our veterans. Competence and knowledge of the mental health of veterans is not at a satisfactory level among the country's decision-makers and psychologists. The Swedish Association SIOPS has therefore arranged a merit course for doctors and psychologists since 2015. It is this course that the majority parties support. In addition to the Federation of Veterinaries SIOPS, regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention are responsible for ensuring the mental health of veterans and their immediate families in particular. I would therefore at the same time ask the RVTS to raise the stakes in this area. Another group that I'm burning for are those who are struggling with booze and psychiatry. Every society is measured by how they treat their weakest. That is why I am very pleased that the government has established a package process for this group of our citizens. The package sequences provide them with better and more predictable treatment and provide greater security of treatment. A total of 22 package trajectories shall be developed and implemented by 2020. In addition, free treatment options have been introduced for these groups to provide them with the best treatment as early as possible. For us in the Right, it is important to give people with mental illness and people with drug problems a dignified life. They should be treated and followed up as well as everyone else, and they should be given the necessary help to get into an active and meaningful life. A general objective is that services should be comprehensive, accessible and tailored to the needs of the individual. The government will ensure that users and patients’ needs lead the development of services. This budget reinforces efforts in the field of care and mental health. The budget shows in a very good way that we are taking care of the weakest of society. The National Audit Office recently presented a report showing that there are too many differences between municipalities in the care of the elderly. The report recommends the dissemination of recognised knowledge in municipalities on quality improvement between municipalities. This is precisely in line with the quality reform ‘Life throughout life’. Through the reform, municipalities are invited to enhance the quality of the dissemination of competences. The good examples from the good municipalities should help raise those municipalities that do not provide such good services. In the budget, it's set at $48 million. to establish a new national support apparatus to contribute to the exchange of experience and to assist municipalities in adapting good solutions to local needs. The support apparatus is in line with the report of the National Audit Office. Therefore, I am also a little disappointed to see that the Central Party cuts half this amount in its budget, while the Labour Party cuts the entire amount in its budget. We have 422 municipalities that provide different quality services. Our seniors have served to improve our services, and to bring forward the best examples. The report of the National Audit Office also calls for the use of welfare technology. This is another important area of commitment in the quality reform «Life throughout life». Welfare technologies and technical aids shall contribute to the safe living of older people in their own homes. Welfare technology will also make work easier and better for the health care workers. It is important to keep an eye on innovation and the introduction of welfare technologies, as set out in this budget. I'm proud to be part of a budget that makes everyday life a little better for those who struggle, a budget that builds on patients' health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1208	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1213	Today, the budget officials will probably agree that a good budget has become even better, but it is actually wrong. What is so sad is that the best budget is being cut down in this area of the Chamber, namely the Workers' Party's alternative budget. The Labour Party knows that good care for the elderly costs money, and we know that there is too much variation in the quality of care services for the elderly outside the municipalities. There are three main interventions that are important for meeting the tasks of the future related to an ageing population. The first is prevention. If the elderly are to stay at home as far as possible, it is important that they remain healthy and maintain their level of function as far as possible. We need a strong strengthening of the lower steps of the care ladder, yes, we actually need a home reform if we're to succeed in the task. It's about housing policy, it's about harm and disease training, it's about good nutrition, and it's about strong communities. Many older ones are lonely. Last week we could read the strong story of Aud, who couldn't remember the last time she had visited. She has finally got a visitor friend, and some 4,000 new visitors have signed up for the Red Cross service. It shows the power of volunteering and of sharing. The second is about capacity and quality. In 20 years there will be twice as many older people in Norway. Although most people are healthy and self-reliant, the need for health care increases when you get older, especially when you get over 80 years of age. Even though more people are going to live at home longer, we still have to build many more hospitals. Yesterday, the alarming number showed that the number of people on the waiting list for hospitalization has increased quite a lot just since the last count, in ours. Many people have a short-term place in the meantime, but the highest was the increase among those who have to live at home while waiting. It's worrying. But a hospital place is not a hospital place. The national quality indicators show that there are large geographical differences in the follow-up of health care residents when it comes to nutrition, follow-up of dental health and access to medical facilities. This is why it is so important to focus on quality and competence in addition to the capacity of care services for the elderly. The working party considers that these differences in quality need to be reduced, and has therefore made a proposal to investigate and introduce quality requirements for the care of older people in Norwegian municipalities. We look forward to considering this proposal in the new year. The third is about economics. When the government does not fully finance staffing standards in kindergarten and school, it is the health budget that has to take the noise. It requires economic muscles to provide good health and care services. That's why we have 3.5 billion in the Labour Party. kr more to the municipalities in our alternative budget, while the government still believes that employees who have to run faster are proper medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1228	The Health and Welfare Committee has many tasks. It's easy to document with all the posts that we have from this pulpit, and it makes you wonder, are any of the problems more important than others? Yes, County Council Hoie to say. He tends to add that the patient's healthcare is the central thing, and then there's nothing about me without me – and thus he focuses on the patient, not on the illness or disability. The human being is a whole; not a collection of test results, X-rays and all the other subfunctions. He's holding on to the fact that we've still most messed up in the field of drugs and psychiatry, as things happen there also of a positive kind. There's a lot of things we can enjoy, but some of it that we might be the most satisfied with, and that funny enough has not been mentioned yet, is that we don't have the care anymore as part of criminal care, but that it's part of health care. It's a central and important difference. Most of those in need of health care are the group I myself belong to, the old ones. Age is not a disease, wear is not necessarily negative – it can even give a certain patient – but we are eager users of healthcare, and we tend to rewrite that on our Christmas cards. We're writing Christmas cards, and it's actually starting to be a risk sport. Last year I got quite a lot of Christmas cards in April, and the prize took the Young Right, as we received our regards in September – they hoped for a good cooperation in 2018, and we have had that. I was in doubt if I might stick to the e-mail, but then an intermediate solution is that you ‘ring’ Christmas cards. I have, and one of those I talked to yesterday was so happy that I called, because she had so much to tell. A lot of help came to her. She unfortunately didn't know them again, because she looked so bad, but – and here came what was said with cheer in her voice: You know what? Yesterday there came a lady who was just going to visit me and ask what I might want to do. She had told the municipality that I had an entire hour at my disposal. What would I do? Would I drink coffee, talk, play music or go for a walk? I wanted to go for a walk, of course, because otherwise I don't get out. She said this – and that was the reality. And this is life in practice. We're a lot of people who are just busy doing this to make life viable and viable. One is the now widely referred ‘life throughout life’, but that’s also all that else is done by volunteering, for example. again the Red Cross, with the visitors there. And it all turns out that the best thing for a human being is another human being. That is where the prevention is, and that is where the activity is. Activity, physical and mental, is the most important thing – also for us old.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1242	That's also for us young people. It is a great tradition to send Christmas cards. The President has the good thing to ‘ring’ Christmas cards, I have neither ‘called’ nor received such, but there is a new tradition that I am going to try. There were some good ideas here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1247	There was a wise conclusion to the article from Keybye Heiberg, to which I join. An overall committee has stated very clearly in its opinion that we are deeply concerned about the situation of the fixed medical system – a major concern – and that there are, in particular, challenges related to capacity and recruitment of the fixed medical system that have become larger. But our common concern triggers very different follow-up and priorities. While in the Workers' Party we allocate funds to 400 general practitioners in specialisation and 100 tour operators and strengthen the community economy heavily, the government comes with small money – a almost insignificant growth, actually only 12 million. kr in fresh money, according to the Play Association, and as far as we can see. I see the council is shaking his head, he's going to have the word later. I almost got involved with what was said here the other day about Christmas cards. I guess it's more like a Christmas card from the government. But I don't know if there's any connection to saying good new year. I would like to hear from the Council of State how the Council of State assesses what will be the situation in the coming year in terms of the fixed medical scheme, with so little money in the pot. We can't sit and wait for next year's evaluation, with a roof. Immediate action is needed in the 2019 budget to ensure recruitment to the permanent scheme. In fact, the fixed medical system needs immediate help. The medical association believes that the crisis has worsened considerably in the last year, and they describe a sharp deterioration in recruitment in the ten largest municipalities in the country. Quite a lot of people are currently undecided. So it doesn't hold that the government's blue party traps and partners in the committee share the concerns of ours, the Lege Association and many others. There is a need for action, and there is a need for money. But unfortunately the majority here in the Chamber does not care. That is why I ask the Council of State if that is the basis for saying good new year to the fixed medical system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1258	The time of the Council of State will come, but before that is the next speaker, the representative Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1263	Empty stomach is a bad starting point for learning. In Norway we have a strong food pack culture, but we also see that many people come to school without lunch in the stomach and food package in the bag. Today, several schools have introduced school food, one or more times a week. Good local initiatives have flourished. The challenge is just that not all children and young people get the same offer. It's unfair, and it helps create differences. In Norway, social health inequalities are increasing, and there is a serious trend that needs to be reversed. Parents' background and income should have something to say as far as possible for children to live a long and healthy life. School food has been highlighted by the Institute for Public Health as a measure that can help reduce social health inequalities. It works best for families with few resources, but healthy and good food affects well-being, learning ability and diet for all students. There are only good arguments for introducing a single school meal for all children. The school may not be advanced or costly. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, we have set aside 716 million. kr for the introduction of school food throughout primary school, starting in the autumn of 2019. Our children and young people need to get the best starting point for success in school. Food in the stomach is important for learning, well-being and good health. Therefore, all children should be offered healthy food at school. We all have a responsibility for our own health, but health is something that concerns the whole community. One year ago, the Stortinget made an important decision for learning and for children’s health: one hour of physical activity at school. The government would come back with its own case. But in the budget, the government only gave a sketch of how problematic this decision was. Therefore, it is so gratifying that we can see in the comments that the government has partially reversed, and that the Christian People's Party again confirms today that they are fully behind the decision that was made a year ago. I look forward to the Storting getting the case as Stortinget has decided. The Labour Party believes that it is the responsibility of the community to erase social differences within health, to keep people healthy and to give our children the best possible starting point for learning and to live a long and healthy life. That's why we want one hour of physical activity at school and to reintroduce school fruit and school food to all children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1276	In order to provide good health services in all municipalities and in all hospitals, we need the nurse. The nurses are there for us all, throughout our lives, and we also have to be there for the nurses. The centre party is seriously concerned about the staffing level and working conditions of the nurses, both in the municipal health service and in hospitals, and that we are training too few nurses. We cannot accept increased sick leave due to excessive labour pressure over time, that the sick cannot be replaced, that one in five nurses choose to change jobs within five years, or that we will lack 15 000 nurses by 2030. In the post «Last week I ended up as a nurse», on the hospital.no in November, Vigdis Jarness Reisetter wrote the following: «Now that I have worked for almost ten years in the care of the elderly, I am still not at work, but I am really scared. Scared to see that the distance between what we should do, and what we actually have time to do, gets bigger for every day. Scared to experience on the body that all budgetary constraints are causing us as nurses to be constantly charged with more work and more responsibility, while at the same time making our working conditions worse.» We need more nurses and better working conditions both to ensure patient safety and to ensure that nurses remain in their profession. This is a self-enhancing problem that requires us to act. If we had avoided that the nurses changed their profession, and increased the average employment rate, which is now at 69 p.m., would have been much solved. But for every day that goes, where the nurses jump off their legs and yet don't feel they're going to, we're not moving towards better recruitment, but towards an increasing problem. According to the Nav Business Survey, the acute shortage of nurses has increased from 4000 nurses in 2017 to 5,900 nurses in 2018. And Jarness Reisetter wrote: «The lack of nurse is a notified crisis, but we on the floor feel that the crisis is already here.» The Centerpartiet strengthens the framework grant to the municipalities by 2 billion. NOK in our alternate budget, and we're adding almost 1 billion. to strengthen patient care in public hospitals. These are important measures that will also strengthen the conditions of nurses. It will provide an opportunity to create a full-time culture, increase basic staffing and give nurses a decent salary and, most importantly, time to do their job. The nurses are needed in every municipality around the country, so the Centre Party believes that we need to invest in decentralised education services, local education services, to recruit local nurses, where there is a need for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1291	The representative of Stensland was in his post on the golden rule. We can, of course, agree quite politically that we want a commitment to mental health, which has not yet been fully achieved. For the Workers' Party, there is also a commitment to building up the municipalities in the area of mental health, which is central. The Labour Party had its own proposal on low-threshold mental health earlier this year, where we would have liked to see a majority with the help of the government parties. Unfortunately, we did not. But it's not either–or, it's probably both–and. The NRK has discovered that out of 200 suicides in psychiatry, 56 people killed themselves while they were enrolled in hospitals or other psychiatric institutions. It's very serious, and it also testifies to challenges about the resource situation. That more people have killed themselves while they were waiting for treatment is not the way we want it. So far this year, psychiatric clinic in Sandviken Hospital in Bergen has had to lay serious sick patients at the time 328 times. It's also a sign that there's a shortage of resources. In 1998, there were 6,276 beds in mental health protection, in 2017 there are 3,746. If that means that more people now get good help in the community where they live, I think it's good, but if the degradation happens because you have to cut because you don't have enough resources, it's unfortunate and reason to stop and think a little bit about it. For this reason, the main efforts of the Labour Party in the budget have now been the strengthening of the specialist health service and the strengthening of the local economy, where good mental health care can also be provided to people, whether they need room in the institution or can get good help in their municipality. The representative, Bruun-Gundersen, was in his contribution that the government had brought the hospital queues down. Getting the hospitals down I think is a goal we can all share. But it is also the case that the Fädrelandsvenn pointed out on 8 November that Sørlanden Hospital, which is the hospital to which I and the representative Bruun-Gundersen are seeking, had received 2 000 more in a two-year hospital queue, to 13,000 who were waiting for referral, but did not get their first hour. A few weeks ago, I received an enquiry from a resident who said he had received an hour in May 2020. We can't have it that way either. The hospital has announced that the next few years will have to cut hundreds of millions, and a few weeks ago they went out in Arendal and told them to cut posts and beds, and that even the children's ward would not be saved. It does not create security for the population. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that a more powerful bet is needed if we are to be able to provide good and safe treatment to more people when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1306	The Labour Party believes that Norwegian cancer patients should have access to the best treatment in public health services. The best health insurance we can have is that we work for each other together when we hurt ourselves or are hit by serious illness. Many outside Norway envy us with this ‘universal healthcare’ model, but are we about to throw away our gold with the privatisation reform for free treatment choices, starvation of public hospitals and a fixed crisis that the government still does not take seriously enough? There are some things northmen are particularly concerned about in terms of health. In the case of own health, cancer and dementia are designated. At system level, there is the fear of a two-way sharing of healthcare — where it no longer seems to be part of the strong community of our health services, but where the thickness of your wallet and the health insurance you have determine which cancer treatment you receive. It worries me, and it pisses me off. The media have written about a number of examples in the last year. At the same time, we strive to find the right formula to ensure fast enough access to innovative treatment and personalised medicine in public health. Last week we organised a seminar on cancer treatment and medicines and a total of 80 participants from the industry, the authorities and the clinics. Here we got a lot of good recordings, and one of them was quite clear: things take too long. We will continue to fight against cancer for many years to come. I want to draw out three things that are particularly important. First, Norway will become a precursor country in cancer prevention. The prevention of tobacco and alcohol and of healthy eating habits and more physical activity shall be continued. The Labour Party made a proposal earlier this year to bring Norway down from the world summit in feces, and during this budgetary procedure we ask that a collection programme for HPV vaccines be assessed for boys as well. Secondly, more people should benefit from the leading cancer treatment. It's about drugs, and it's about better access to radiation and proton therapy. With the Labour Party budget, we can put radiation centres in Skien, Drammen, Lørenskog and Kalnes faster than the government adds. We have $1.65. kr more than the government in our hospital budget. The third is that more and more people survive cancer, and that we have to make sure that we get a good follow-up even after the cancer treatment has been completed. The Cancer Association has done a good job of focusing on sensitising damage after cancer treatment on the agenda, and we want to follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1322	Violence and abuse make children and adults ill and have serious consequences for the quality of life of those affected. The costs for individuals and for society are significant. It is worth noting the political differences in the work against violence and abuse. Where, through the plan of escalation against violence and abuse, the government has strengthened the budget by 67 million. kr for next year, the Workers' Party proposes a strengthening of over 1 billion. kr. One in ten Norwegian women has experienced rape during their lives. Half of these were under 18 when it happened. NKVTS — National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress — describes that there are no indications that the number of rapes has fallen over time. The numbers speak for themselves, and behind every number there's a bad story. It is essential that the offenders are of high quality in order to ensure legal certainty and to provide good health care to those at risk of rape. The VG has revealed that 10 out of 25 offenders are missing daily standby and that it may take hours before the offenders are examined. In response to a written question from the undersigned to the Minister for Health about the quality of the respondents, the Minister for Health writes the following: The regional health companies report back that all the victims have emergency services. It appears that it is organised in different ways, but that professional access is available 24 hours a day. We are told by the media that some victims have ringing lists for both doctors and nurses and are totally dependent on employees saying yes when they are called, so that the offender will receive health care. A report on the status of the offenders has been prepared by the National Centre of Competence for Medical Medicine. Clearly, there is still a great need for the Minister of Health to take the report seriously and to ensure a quality gap for the offenders. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, we have set aside 93 million. kr within the hospital framework of work against violence and assault. It is essential to provide more social pediatricians, increased access to medical examinations in children’s homes and a rise in the number of offenders. Major variations between responders are unacceptable. Where you live and whether you are a child or an adult, you should not determine your legal security or if you are receiving physical and mental health care if you are being abused.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1335	The selection of qualifications states that there is training for a small number of health and care workers, and the lack of nurses is the greatest. This is serious. We are facing challenges with an ageing population that lives longer and longer. In order to have good care for the elderly and good health care, we need to train more nurses, and we need training throughout the country, so that anyone who wants or has opportunity can build skills to work with health and care. In August, a record of 23 000 qualified applicants remained unsolicited in Norway. However, in a situation where more than 70,000 young people under the age of 30 are out of study or work, the government has hardly proposed new places of study. Several places of study provide the opportunity for individuals, and also for society, to come out of a difficult situation and to provide the labour market with the necessary skills. The Labour Party has added 3,000 new study places to its budget, including: to facilitate the situation in the health and care professions. This would provide far more study places for nurses, also decentralised. The working party strengthens local study centres and nurse training in its budget. We believe it is necessary to provide better facilities for adults to take part-time or full-time nursing courses. So we know that the challenges of competence in the health and care sector are also linked to the widespread use of part-time jobs, which affect labour supply. The Labour Party will therefore improve this through a policy for more permanent jobs, which will strengthen the care of the elderly and also the health services of municipalities. In addition, we believe that the government should better facilitate its authorisation for use in Norway for those who have training from other countries. That is why we are proposing, for example: that the government is looking at whether increased authorisation costs will prevent people from using their resources in our common healthcare. We also strengthen access to nurses and other welfare professions by applying more to professional research and establishing more recruitment positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1356	The representative of Stensland from the Right has long had difficulty arguing against the general, offensive and professionally strong health and hospital policies of the Centre Party. It's a solid line that gets more respect and upliftment, not least among professionals. Now the right hand side has to go out harder, and Stensland chooses to engage in an unwarranted attack on the Center Party's Kjersti Top. The centre party provides an equivalent health and care service for all. We provide services close to people, and we practice this systematically in municipalities and in the specialist health service, whether in hospitals, hospitals, rushes or psychiatry. Whether young people want to live and the family in what is called ‘in the country’ in Oslo, these people should not feel insecure about poorer health services. The centre party presents people "who live extremely", as the priest Bård Jahr said. Ultimately, both geographically and socially, our brand is. The centre party is a priority. It is because it will always be too small public budgets. What is now the most important priority is better public operation. We need to train and stimulate young people to think sea and take responsibility. This – thinking seas and taking responsibility – must be done within a common understanding of the work force on what the job is and how the job is to be done. The central party is therefore working for a trust reform for employees in the state and municipality. This means systematically giving professionals greater responsibility and authority. It requires good competence, good education, good experience, modern equipment, full-time jobs and a significant reduction in the number of vicariates and rentals. The central party's trust reform is the opposite of the government's reforms, which centralise both offers and jobs. The result of government policy is both more expensive and worse. The police reform is the evidence – contrary to what the government said here in Stortinget. Modern and safe health services are essential for young people to choose private businesses across the country. Here we have many future industries that manage renewable natural resources, which are a central part of the green shift. People's renunciation of the inability to influence important decisions in health businesses is now experienced and common across the country. There is a heated debate in More and Romesdal about the dismissal of 200 health professionals to finance a new hospital. Investment decision is even deferred. This has gone so far that the contractors involved are in despair. They've put a lot of work into it, and then it's all stopped. We must have members of the board who represent the owner – members of the board who make elections and who can therefore be replaced by elections. In Oslo, this is also relevant. Now Ullevål is proposed to be closed, to harsh criticism from almost all trade unionists who know the facts. We can't have it like that. We need to reform the Health Business Act as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1377	I take the floor to record some ominous signs in time that are about our children and young people's mental health. This concerns us all, and it concerns me deeply. We are facing an increasing social problem, and I am happy to belong to a party that takes it seriously. In recent years, students’ mental health has deteriorated significantly. I was present when the students' health and well-being studies were presented in the autumn, and I must say that I was shaken by what was documented. Still more students are struggling mentally. In 2014, every five students had serious mental disorders, and then we talk about ‘serious’. In 2018, there was one in four. Fear, depression and suicidal thoughts are becoming quite widespread. The arrows point in the wrong direction. The government needs to take more seriously that so many young people feel that school and study-related stress makes them sick. Students are more vulnerable than the rest of the population. We in the Workers' Party believe that stronger efforts are needed and more targeted policies are needed to improve students' mental health. We double the efforts for prevention and treatment and have committed 15 million. kr in the alternative budget. We need to find the reason why children and young people are having a hard time, and we need to talk to those affected. That is why we recently conducted a seminar on student health with student organisations and other interested and meaningful organisations to cooperate on action that works. Then, of course, we say no to policies that exacerbate students' situation and put more pressure on young people. We are e.g. totally contrary to the government's tightening up of the student loan conversion scheme, which penalises students who do not complete a degree or for other reasons change direction. We prioritise better study quality, student welfare and closer follow-up to help more people through the study. Therefore, fortunately, we also received a student representative for everyone, and therefore we have proposed a mentoring order. We work together to help children and young people take better care of their own mental health and to help them be available when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1390	There's a difference between Oslo and Finnmark. The rules for patient travel are not adapted to the districts, which have a worse route offer than the big cities. According to the patient travel regulations, patients should preferably use available scheduled transport, even if it will take much longer, as for the family with mother and two children in Mehamn, Finland, who had to take flights and buses for nine hours and spend two nights for a day’s visit to the health services in Karasjok. A run on this route would take four hours. The flight and bus journey took nine hours. Heimreisa took 12 hours with waiting time at the airport both in Lakselv and in Tromsø. History is really unlikely – but true. In the setting, there is a proposal from the minority, including the Center Party, to ask the government to change the patient travel regulations in view of the practices we see. The suggestion is good, but changing the policy will take some time. It's already adopted in winter, and the work, as I know, is already going on. My point is that the practice we see from Health Nord has nothing to do with patient travel regulations. It is the health care provider who has a very unwise practice. In response to written questions, Health Minister Höie confirmed this for me – and I quote from the answer: ‘Deficient regular services’ must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. It is necessary to use judgement here, where, inter alia, distance and total travel time will have an impact on the assessment. Patient travel offices must take into account geographical and traffic conditions when organising patient travel.» I thought it was time for us now to ask the Minister of Health that Health Nord tighten his travel policy, as they have developed, and that they change the practice of the patient travel regulations that are today. That is why we have put forward a loose proposal, No. 30, in the hall, which is about to ask Health North to review and modify the practice of patient travel regulations. Then we have another loose proposal, no. 31, where we ask the government to ensure that the work on the electronic exchange of messages in the municipalities is continued by the closure of government funds to the Komut, and that the municipalities have time to change, so that this work does not stop. Here we take note that the plural has cut these funds, but we ask that a certifier that the work on electronic messages in the municipalities does not stop, and I had hoped that we could get multiples for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1404	First of all, we have to be really proud of the Norwegian public health system. In principle, poor and rich should have the same treatment. The alcoholic, the distiller, the business owner and the financier shall be met by whiteclothes or green-headed personnel in the event of accidents or illness. I had the opportunity in my previous professional life to travel a lot around the world, and I can't say it strongly enough: the model that we have here in the country, with the greatest possible similarity in terms of treatment, is no obvious in many countries. In developing countries, it is obvious, but of course also in many Western countries. It's probably enough to mention the United States and the new Russia, where the differences in society are enormous, even in the health sector. We know that in the United States — where personal health insurance is a security — ‘Medicare for All’ was an election campaign for Bernie Sanders, who was still referring to the Nordic model of cohesion in both income, tax and health. My point is that we have to call about our principle of a good and equal public health for all. We have to watch it. SV will watch it when we see steady and blunt right-hand movements for privatisation. If this segment grows and resources are tapped from the public, the danger is great for the development of an a and b layer. That's not what SV wants at all. Neither do people want most, I think, even though the right side wraps privatisation into beautiful paper. They talk about free treatment choices, that private complementing public health services, etc. We need to be absolutely aware that there are major differences in people's health from the social point of view of society. We could call it class differences. It is a well-known fact that the less resource-intensive families also have major health problems. Not in any field do we see this clearer in our country than in dentistry. There are hardly any more visible signs of wealth and health, or lack of it, than when it smiles with a fancy tannery – or is in poor condition. SV has long pointed out the simple fact that the teeth are part of the body. It must be high time to phase dental health into the next major reform, where the public covers dental treatment as any other medical treatment of the body. In the long term, SV wants no one to pay more than NOK 2 500 in a year for dental treatment. For the time being, SV and the Working Party are united on such a bet – at least in that direction. We hope that several parties gradually join in on the apparent void – and get it covered through public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1417	In 2013, there were 280,000 people in health queues. The mean waiting time for patients was 73 days. It was the legacy of the Progress Party and after eight years the Right got with red-green rule – 280,000 people in health cows. This government has reduced both the queues and the waiting time, while we are dealing with more. We are now treating 1.6 million more patients. It's high. The working party once had a goal of treating 1 million more by 2017. We've reached that goal a long time ago. So the Labour Party in this case claims that there is no evidence that the health cows have fallen. Well, this has actually been examined several times. In July 2017, they document that the waiting time has fallen. In February 2018 they document that the queues have decreased by 28 pst. since 2013. 76,570 people are away from the health queue. This has been done by the government using several grapples. Among other things, we have introduced package sequences – 28 different package sequences for cancer. It provides greater safety and faster assistance to patients. Free treatment options have been introduced, which have been a major success and one of the main reasons for the decline in queues. As a patient through free choice of treatment, waiting times can be compared at the different sites of treatment. Information on the quality of treatment can be obtained, and the number of treatments carried out at different sites can be seen each year. The Advancement Party and the Right have also removed the treatment package, which allows hospitals to treat more patients. We buy more services from private actors. It is not – as SV claims – a privatisation, because the public pays, but patients can be allowed to use private. You buy the capacity in the market to make sure that the queues go down. We've also changed the funding system, so it'll pay for the hospitals to treat more patients. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have a goal of giving patients freedom of choice, bringing down waiting times and bringing down the queues. We want more of the policies that work. We know that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left policies have brought down the queues, and will, of course, have more of them. We're not quite on target, but we're doing well. We're reducing waiting times. There are over 70,000 fewer in health cows now. It's good for everyone, it's good for society, and it's a policy The Progress Party will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1432	According to the SSB, there has been a significant decrease in the number of daily places and annual work in the field of mental health protection in recent years. And according to the figures of the day's medicine received from the Health Directorate, in August there were 8,330 broken patient agreements in the field of mental health protection – 8,330. And one in three references to mental health protection are clearly rejected. How did we get here? We have, after all, a government that has boasted that they have introduced the golden rule. But is it used? In fact, the use of money has grown five times as fast in somatic matters as in mental health protection after Bent Höie became Minister of Health. There is really not enough money given in relation to the need that exists – as many environments warn about. When I was born nine years ago, I was one of the unfortunates who had birth depression. Fortunately, I was one of the lucky ones, such as timing, when it came to getting good and quick help. Right then, the escalation plan we had for mental health protection was finished, and I therefore had a great offer to go to my DPS in Telemark. It started quickly. This meant that I also recovered quickly, for the best of both myself and my family, and not least my son. When I recently discussed the good treatment I received, with the head of DPS in Telemark, he had to complain and say that such treatment would not have been given to me now, for I had, among other things, had to wait in line because they had reduced manning due to budget cuts of 25 pst. For the period 2016-2018, the Commission adopted, inter alia: managed by the Hospital Telemark, a total reduction of 15.5 million. In the field of mental health protection, and for 2018–2019, even more reduction has been proposed at the psychiatric clinic, in the form of, among others. the second package of spades. Unfortunately, the Telemark Hospital is not in any special position, and it is therefore provocative when it is constantly said by the Council of State and the Government that it is committed to mental health because they follow a rule – a golden one. So they don't. The speech of the numbers is clear. Health enterprises prioritise as they do, based on the means they receive — and not least on the confusing leadership that comes. The Minister of Health now believes that both the waiting time should decrease and the level of activity should rise — while not increasing resources. Me and the Center Party have recently made several proposals to strengthen mental health protection, at the latest now with a view to stopping the building-up of bed places and increasing the daily capacity of mental health protection. In addition, in our alternative budget, we give priority to strengthening low-threshold measures in the municipalities and the treatment provision in hospitals, and not least to strengthening the district psychiatric centres and providing 30 million. extra kr for children in child protection. I think it's a better answer to the challenges of mental health protection than just talking about a rule. Rather than acidic mines, give health businesses the right tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1449	I'm a little bit in the red-green corner now, so I'm going to inform you that proposal No. 30 we will support from the Workers' Party – this concerns the practice of patient travel regulations. We also support proposal No. 31. on the COMUT, which unfortunately loses its allocation, and proposal No. 32, on national pacemaker register — all three from the Centre Party. I would like to say a little bit about the situation of user-driven personal assistance, abbreviated BPA. In the context of the budget, the Norwegian Handicap Association has given us a consultation call where it is clear that several evaluations, including their own report – Equality and participation in reverses? – documents completely different experiences and findings from what the government describes in Prop. 1 S. The reality is that BPA does not function too much after the intention of Stortinget. We had an interpellation about this in the spring and then thought that it was a cross-political recognition of the situation, also with a background in what the Council of State said. But unfortunately it doesn't seem like that. The situation is obviously worrying and requires political action. I'm asking, what's going on? The management of BPA has to be investigated, and at least for us it is red-green, of course, as indicated in the setting, that representatives of disabled people’s organisations have to participate in the investigation team and not simply be contacted by other means. It's their members that apply, and it's those who know best what this is all about. I regret that the government parties and the Christian People's Party are not involved in the comment on the recognition of the situation and also on the importance of the inclusion of disabled people's organisations in this investigation group. I hope the Christian People's Party in the debate can clarify its position and say something about – in order to use a term from the sector – the 'forecast', in terms of bringing the government into a much more active track in this matter. I know that the Christian People's Party is really concerned about this. This was addressed a little directly to the chairman of the committee. These are very many who are concerned about, and here Christian People's Party can play a key role. And I'm going to promise that the rest of us are gonna be security guards.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1460	The representative of Bjørnebeck-Waaagen challenged me when it came to public health, during the change of lines. I said I didn't recognize myself in the cuts she referred to. I still don't, but I might be able to help her out a little bit when it comes to documenting it. She may have been aiming for a cap. 714, which concerns HUNT and a few other projects to be completed and which have been actually planned to be completed. When we cut there, it gives room to move funds to other items. We do that, because what is public health? These include: The public health programme, which was launched in 2017 and which ends in 2027, and which I think it is allocated 42 million. SEK to 2017, SEK 28 million. SEK in 2018 and now put on an additional 10 million. kr. It's about school health services and health stations, which have had a historic stake in this field, with over 1 billion. kr in the previous grossing-up period. This work continues. The escalating plan for drug use will provide 2.4 billion dollars. kr to the field in fresh funds when it is completed next year. Psychologists for all municipalities are immediately completed. By 2020, there shall also be ergotherapy service in all municipalities. Overweight was mentioned here. The Committee was last in the fall of Westfold and looked at a public health programme to combat obesity among young people at the Hospital in Westfold. Extensive programmes are also under way elsewhere in the country in this respect. The midwife service will be strengthened in this budget. We come up with an economically binding escalation plan for children and young people's mental health. Free core time in kindergarten and differentiated stay payments for children in low-income families also have something to do with public health. We strengthen sport and cultural work. We have a range of voluntary teams and associations that work to improve the quality of life for everyone. And yes, we're for more physical activity in school. We have strengthened family protection because good health is created there. I would like to say that there is little understanding of the cross-sectoral work that needs to be done in order to raise public health when the representative of the Labour Party believes that the Left has abandoned its main efforts in this field – namely early action and prevention – and when the only representative of the Bearbeck-Waagen is able to mention in the budget, a cut in the public health chapter. Public health is something other than statistics in the Nord-Trøndelag and in Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1470	The representative, Hagebakken, was wondering if we could want to settle for a good new year. I believe that we can, but I am not in doubt that the decision-makers will also experience in 2019 that they have a busy everyday life and many major and important tasks, and that they need more colleagues and not least that several of the colleagues who are appointed remain permanent. That is why I have taken the initiative, together with the Medical Association and the KS, to re-establish the tripartite cooperation on the fixed medical system, which was laid down under the previous government. There we work well with the long-term challenges. We also need to take action quickly. That's why we in this budget together with the Christian People's Party have increased the appropriations in the recruitment area by 50 million. kr and not 12 mill. kr, by which the representative Hagebakken tried to create the impression. This recruitment grant will go to the municipalities that want to recruit new permanent doctors, but also to take measures to keep those they have. We've launched a primary health team pilot project for 55 million. kr. The medical officer is an important question for the decision-makers. It is important to be able to think about the medical watch system and the load that the medical watch is for the regular doctors. That is why we have launched a pilot project in the medical field. ALIS-Vest, for which we provided funding, has been experienced and experienced as a success in recruiting new, young doctors into this scheme. Now we're expanding ALIS-West to become ALIS-Nord, so that we get a project also in North Norway related to this. What's exciting about ALIS-Nord is that one looks more closely at models where one works independently as a regular. We have committed to strengthening specialist training in general medicine, which we also allocate 46 million. until 2019. The medical association is very clear that this model is helping to improve the recruitment of the fixed medical system. We have spent money on research and competence, while in this year's settlement with the real estate agencies we spent 100 million dollars. in addition to what other groups received, precisely for having measures in the settlement relating to the fixed medical scheme. We have signed an agreement with the Medical Association, which also points forward to the need for more doctors, and that more professionals remain in their profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1481	All citizens have the right to good emergency preparedness and a short route to good health care. Equal access to health services, public health and disease prevention in all municipalities is a foundation for an equal society with small differences between people, and for people to live where they want to. The ambulance has to come out when you need it. It's an important principle for the Center Party and should be it for all parties. In recent years, many people have experienced a worsening of their emergency response. Ambulance centres are being laid down and centralised further away from people. The medical emergency response was recently severely weakened for a longer period of time when ambulance aircraft remained on the ground due to pilot deficiency. It was a national crisis because it was a crisis for people. Because if you get in an emergency and it says in minutes, it can mean the difference between life and death if the ambulance doesn't come, or it doesn't come in time. The centre party responds strongly to a reduction in ambulance services that weakens our preparedness and the security of our citizens. Norway’s long-term country, varied geography and scattered settlements do not allow us to centralise the ambulance services. Local hospitals are also a very important part of local health services and emergency services. The hospital budgets for 2019 are tight, and public hospitals need to carry out large cuts in a situation where resources are already under pressure. Patient safety is compromised, depending on the possibility of providing equally good healthcare across Norway. In its alternative budget, the central party prioritises nearly 1 billion. kr more for the treatment of patients in public hospitals, of which €0.5 billion. The aim is to strengthen the ambulance service, local hospitals and local food services. All people have a mental health. Fortunately, we're going in the direction of greater and greater acceptance to talk about just that and to seek treatment if you need help. But it is a great paradox that while there is a greater acceptance to talk about and treat mental disorders, a reduction in daily places, closure of DPSs is also being carried out, unless mental health protection capacity is reduced as a result. It is serious that money use has grown five times as fast in somatic matters as in mental health protection. The consequence is that mentally ill people don't get the treatment they need, but they end up throwing balls in the system. We can't accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1492	In my first post, I started talking about vulnerable children, and I want to keep going. But before that, I will answer Tore Hagebakken. The BPA system is incredibly important for the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party has even made an equivalised reform that we are taking with us into the investigations of today's government. It's about looking at the BPA system more like a gender equality tool than a health tool, because it's about patients who need help for what they can't do themselves to be able to participate on equal terms with others in society, is incredibly important to us. We're concerned that in the investigation that's now under way, you should also think about who you're dealing with, in order to know where the shoe is pressing. We'd better hear that from those who experience it themselves. Finally, with regard to the BPA scheme, I would also say that it cannot be that people who have a BPA scheme cannot even move, because it depends on which municipality you live in. It determines what number of BPA hours an actual BPA gets. Students moving into Oslo may get an hour different from what they have at home. That's not right, and this is the Christian People's Party incredibly concerned. I began my article by talking about vulnerable children. Some of us here have been talking about violence and violent children, which cost our society a place between 4.5 and 6 billion. kr. The size has jointly adopted a stepping-up plan across departments and across committees. Many things have been done in many budgets in order to meet this: health centres and school health services, several teachers who see, several kindergarten teachers who see, to strengthen the competence of children's homes in medical research and to strengthen the social pediatricians in hospitals, so that one actually can see this. Psychiatric health for children and young people is important here, competence in the police, competence in the Association of Lawyers to meet them, competence in the field of child protection. We've all been sitting and looking at Mona, who felt that nobody saw it. Before they took Mona out, the Food Agency took out the dog. This means that we have a challenge to look at across departments, across service areas in municipalities, across service areas and across committees. Violence against children is our most important task, because there is so much public health work in it. Finally, on behalf of the Health and Welfare Committee, I wish the Presidency and the Stortinget a Merry Christmas and would like to thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1505	The representative Kjersti Top has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1510	Proposal No. 32 is about a national treatment register for pacemakers. This has been asked by the heart forces in a common bulwark, they fear for patient safety. It has been distributed for several years without one being closed, and now we need a political decision that we want to get this in place. I hope it can be approved. So a comment to the representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen that the waiting lists have gone down. They may have, but we know that statistics are based on a re-discussed number base, where the waiting times are at least longer than the official waiting lists. Nine out of ten are removed from the queue before processing and will be put in a new queue, an internal queue for distribution and evaluation. This must also be taken into account when boasting of how many patients you are treating, although the main objective of health policy is to avoid as many treatments as possible and to pursue good public health policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1517	In Norway, we will have equal access to education, regardless of our wallet, the situation of life and where we live in the country. Therefore, the Workers' Party will use the local training centres to strengthen them and ensure that nurse training can reach all parts of our country. We fight for enough professionals, with health professionals and nurses, and a welfare state that gives us all health and good care for the elderly throughout Norway. When the policy is positively linked in the field by field, we can really make progress for people – with regular jobs with real wages and pensions, with enough apprenticeships and practice places and a good training offer, which actually allows people to get work afterwards. When we think about education provision in the future, it is clear that the study centres are becoming a crucial part of the infrastructure to reach all the future nurses that we need. Work on Norwegian health records is a good example of what can be achieved if we think about job development and education in combination. Because of long-term political struggle, with wise decisions and skilled professionals, it is now possible to study at NTNU and do it at Tynset while qualifying for future work at the Health Archives. We can draw inspiration and learning from that link. In general, we see in our healthcare system that already today there are several people who are making decisive efforts with both skills and self-confidence that nurses have acquired at the local educational centres. It reinforces the possibility of taking education even after one is established with a family. We need visions and practical policies to improve the security of Norway and to strengthen the life of the wider community of the people. Some professionals are needed, and study centres become a crucial part of the education infrastructure to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1528	There has been a long and good debate. I didn't take the word to wish good Christmas, but I'm doing it now, so I won't forget it. It has been a customary debate in many ways. – A brief visit to the representative of Bruun-Gundersen, who embellishes himself with waiting lists: When new treatments are introduced into our services, a waiting list is necessarily created for that treatment. I wonder if Bruun-Gundersen experienced the legacy of the red-greens as heavier, for example. the introduction of treatment for atrial fibrillation. It's an example that these are statistics, with a lot of pitfalls. The person who made my blood pump pump pump a little extra was the representative Grimstad, who spoke out with anger in his voice before he stormed down from the pulpit, that there is a difference between public health and statistics in the Nord-Trøndelag. From a party that describes itself as a knowledge party, it was quite unknowing. HUNT, the North-Trunde Team Health Survey, is among the world’s largest population surveys, and the data set they have is completely unique – with more than 2,000 scientific articles published and more than 150 doctoral degrees. There is research into future diagnostics, treatment, and it provides in-depth and precise knowledge that enables us politicians to implement a public health policy that takes place. When the Institute of Public Health publishes weight data that the population has changed weight, there are data from HUNT they use. A new diagnosis of heart disease has also been developed using studies in the HUNT study. Sepsis e.g. is a disease that captures 3 pst. of all the beds in Norwegian hospitals. There is the largest sepsis cohort in the world through the HUNT data, where not only do you have patient data from sepsis spaces that have been treated, but you can research it against the population data provided by the HUNT study. Health Wear has been developed for the world market, which has a much more sophisticated algorithm than the market-leading Apple Watch that I have on my hands – sorry, if it was advertising. But this was completely unknowing and was suitable for bringing up my blood pump. I hope the representative Grimstad will read up to next year's budget debate on the public health survey in the North Trøndelag, which is a unique data set, and which can solve many health challenges in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1539	When the government weakens the municipal economy, it cuts out in the municipality of Norway, in health stations and in the school health service, and when the government cuts in the dental health, they add up to a health care system that is run as it pays off financially. Red will go in the opposite direction. We want a health policy that balances differences and strengthens health services together. So some people in this room have sometimes said that Red has a program where we promise a lot, but maybe don't have the money to make the promises. But in our alternative state budget we show that it is fully possible. An example of that is dental health. We take important steps towards public free dental care in just one year in our alternative state budget. That's what's needed. One in three Nordics has exposed or dropped the dentist for financial reasons. This makes those who have poor advice end up with poorer dental health. Red is in favour of a dental reform that from next year will provide over one million Nordics with cheaper dental health, through two measures. Firstly, we extend free dental care through the County Dental Service for everyone up to 25 years. At the same time we introduce a refund of 40 pst. of all expenditure over NOK 2000 for all over 25 years. This is the first step on the way to free dental health for everyone. And in order to prevent money allocated to dental health from disappearing in large amounts to dentists, we propose a price cap as part of the self-proprietary system. In addition, we strengthen the hospital economy in order to ensure the staffing of hospitals and better maternity and maternity care, and to improve pay and working conditions in order to strengthen the recruitment of health workers. The government's cheese line is going to reverse heads for heads, ears for ears, and we're going to strengthen hospitals by a total of 1.5 billion. kr. We implement these proposals without using any more of the oil fund and without increasing the taxes on the 75 pst. of the population who make less than SEK 600 000 today. And those who have the most, get the joy of being able to contribute a little more to the community to ensure, among other things. a lifting for dental health and not least a strengthening of our hospitals. It is possible to strengthen the community if it is willing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1552	Initially, I wasn't supposed to draw myself here, but I felt the need to do it after I heard the representative of Bollestad, who talked about our company of Mona Anita. The reason I'm drawing is that I'm reacting very strongly to the fact that the occasion is used in this debate to talk about that matter when, in the previous round, very shortly, a full state review of the compensation rules was voted against. It did the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Center Party, and then the person we're talking about now sat in the gallery. She rushed out of the Storting, once again disappointed that representatives of the people do not do that one says. He, Mona Anita Espedal, said to NRK: ‘This is a clear breach of promise for the second time. If the compensation arrangements are to be as they are today, there will be a large difference between those who are being compensated and those who are not". I think more than myself in here saw the debate on the NRK, where also the representative of Bollestad and my party colleague Karin Andersen were present. Karin Andersen has summarized this very well: with the decision that was made, everything will be the same. One does not change for these kids, and with a voluntary review with KS – as KS has also said that one does not realize that one will go in on – nothing gets better. We can wish each other a Merry Christmas, and I want the presidency and the representatives in here for a Merry Christmas. But there are people out there we should want a good Christmas and work to get good life. After the time I have been in here as an alternate, I must say that fine words and good wishes do not last. We have seen that in this case, which concerns the compensation scheme I am talking about now, and we have seen it in the care case. So it has also been expressed by the Council of State in the field in question that you bring good wishes to those families. Neither Mona Anita nor the families need good wishes, they need good politics. They need elected representatives who stand up for them. I just have to say that I'm very proud to represent a party that says that we will do the most for those who have the least, just the people here, who need someone who stands up for them, who does more than just wish them good Christmas, who work for them to have good life, and that they can live with the propriety that every human in Norway and anywhere else deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1566	I have to make a clarification about the government-funded elderly care attempt that we have. The representative of Kjerkol was in his speech in his municipality, and now I want to read something from the rapporteur in Stjørdal, who is from the Central Party. He says, Kjerkol says that participation in the state care project has not resulted in changes in working methods or more hands in care. This is wrong. We've hired ten new year's works in a daily test team. We have improved the procedures for the provision of proper services to actual needs. And we've built a health facility that's power-generating and expanding our specialised community health service. None of this would have been possible without the participation we have in the project that Kjerkol was skeptical of that we were going to participate in. The reason I take it up is that it should not be hanging in the room that it has not contributed to better quality and better conditions for the elderly in the municipality of Stjørdal. Many have been involved in education and enough health professionals, and so am I. I thought I'd say a little bit about everything that's done there. We have thus had 48 000 people in the health and care sector who have participated in continuing training at this time. We've added 355 million. kr to Competence Commitment 2020 in the budget. We have trained 4,000 new nurses between 2013 and 2017, and we have trained well and well 600 managers, who are going to work either in nursing homes or in this sector. A study conducted by NOVA highlights, inter alia: that management, skills-enhancing measures and opportunities for continuing training are important measures for recruiting and, in particular, keeping nurses in nursing homes and in home care, as one of the representatives was concerned about. The proposals in this study are, of course, also linked to increasing wages, dropping unwanted shifts and offering regular and full-time jobs. This is important, but of course it lies with the social partners. The shift/turnus committee has concluded that a major need for weekend shifts, combined with employees who only work every three weekends or fewer weekends, is the main cause of involuntary part-time work. I think it gets a little bit in the room. Many want full-time jobs to start their lives, and then we have to make it right. Otherwise, I want Christmas, of course, to all our good health politicians here on the Stortinget, both from Bent Höie and from me.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1586	The representative, Carl-Erik Grimstad, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1592	The presumption of innocence, as it is called, suggests that the representative Kjerkol treats me in a slightly milder way until I have established that the HUNT study is of great importance both nationally and internationally. The representative knows that I know, after we have traveled around the country and the beach together and heard exactly what Kjerkol said here from this pulpit. The reason I took the floor was that the representative in her party thought there was a connection between carefully planned cuts in HUNT, and that this was symptomatic of public health work for the government. So it's not. To challenge North-Trandian blood pumps is not good for public health, so I ask the representative Kjerkol to notice that I am now leaving the pulpit in a worthy and calm manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1601	The representative of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has also spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1606	The health queues and waiting lists go down. The promotion party would like to see healthcare companies buy even more services and treatment from private operators. It's cheaper than letting people go sick for a long time waiting for an operation. The goal here must definitely be for the health cows to go away. Then I also want to add that we need more nurses in Norway. It is an important and necessary job both in the municipalities and in hospitals. We depend on more people being trained in the health professions. I record that there are 13 000 young people who want to train as nurses, on waiting lists at universities and colleges. At that time, universities and universities must give priority to these educational places and also cut into other studies that do not offer equal job opportunities. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1613	We have here in the hall so easy to see every field of society, every frame area separately. This debate is – to the extent that all other debates – typical of that. We don't look that much outside the silo we're in. I belong to a committee other than the Health Committee, but I see the same thing, I see it a little bit like this from the side now, from the outside. The Minister of Finance, of course, looks at revenue and expenditure for each sector. She's trying to largely of course to keep up the expenses, naturally enough. But could it be that we could have had much less wasted public money and less suffering if we had seen the budget areas together? I've asked myself this many times. I have a couple of examples. The report ‘Societal economic effects of outdoor life’ from Vista Analysis was made for Norwegian Outdoor Life and the Norwegian Tourist Association last year. It concluded that with only a moderate increase in the level of activity of children and adults in the population, there is a potential for a profit of 80 billion. kr per year – SEK 80 billion. kr. Everyone is aware of this. But what grip should be taken? It actually helps quite a lot to see some budget areas together. It's e.g. important to look at access to open-air areas and routes when operating on land-use planning. So people have to get out, they have to have access to natural areas, and then we shouldn't let ourselves be tempted to deconstruct, supplement, fragment the green areas, so that people don't have access to these travel areas. It's very important. Then we see that the liberalisation of the development policy has only strengthened under the prevailing government. It is a desired policy – it should be easier to develop. We need to be aware of this all the way, from the municipality level to the county level and up to the state level. This committee, which I belong to, is not least the Committee on Transport and Communications. If you see the transport budget in connection with the health budget, you have quite a lot to pick up, for example. In the case of walking and cycling routes, think of what it means for public health that you can walk or cycle to work, that you have the opportunity to do so. You know, for example. that it will be built about 10 miles by new motorway next year, according to the traffic budget, but only 7.5 miles by foot- and bicycle road, i.e. much more motorway than the pedestrian and cyclist road? It's that kind of grip, that's the kind of thinking you have to bring with you all the way. I think the Health Committee would like to have 80 billion. kr more to route with – maybe just half. I think it's a lot of dirt to put that money into.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1622	The representative Olug V. Bollestad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1627	Only a brief note on the compensation schemes for children exposed to violence and abuse. It was a Christian People's Party proposal, which was delivered in February. The Judicial Committee spent half a year and well saw it taking that case, and when it came up, it turned out that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre had had an investigation into municipal arrangements in 2013 that had been put in a drawer. Those who voted against the proposal of the Christian People's Party were the Right, the Left, the Advance Party and the Center Party. Therefore, there were no ‘fine words’ from the Christian People’s Party. We actually stood for what we said from the beginning. We also did so in the care scheme, but when it comes to grading care money, it was a budgetary settlement. But we're as busy with classified care money as SV is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1632	The representative Ingvild Kjerkol has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1637	It was to Michaelsen's council's suggestion of what the undersigned should have said. The fact that no better quality can be demonstrated in the offer of the participating municipalities in the State experiment on care for the elderly is not something I have found. It is stated in the report that the government has ordered from an analysis company, which was presented in January 2018, exactly one week after Michaelsen, the Council of State, had started the job. We debated this in Political Quarter, so she knows very well what I have said and not said. To refer to an article by Ivar Vigdenes I feel as an incorrect rendering of my statements, and it should not occur from a council of state on the pulpit in Stortinget. That the municipality of Stjørdal has employed more people when they have received more money from the state, I think it is very good. I have never said that is not a good or a proper prioritisation of the municipality of Stjørdal. Malvik Municipality has employed even more. They're not part of the state experiment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1642	Now there's been a little talk about this blood pump that's been pounding too hard, and I just want to start by saying that Bollestad is of course right. I just have to regret that I said wrong, that of course I should say the Left Party and not the Christian People's Party. That's absolutely right. So from this pulpit I just have to express it. That's supposed to be the right thing to say from here, and it's a principle that I and many others are trying to live by. But what it was also an expression was that the disappointment was great over the decision of the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Center parties, and those who watched the debate must have seen the great disappointment that was over it. It is important to follow up what you say, and what you do, and there was also a meeting between a representative from the Progress Party and Mona Anita who probably gave some hopes that were not followed up in this room. Then it's true that the representative of Bollestad said that it was also a frustration on my part about what happened in the care business. I understand that one is in government negotiations, and that it is a state budget agreement that lies here, but I don't think people affected by this understand that. It's some of the things that are also important to express from our side, that they actually apply, they probably don't distinguish from what you say you're for, but based on what you go into this hall and vote against. I think that's something we all have to think about. We also saw it in a case that was up this week that says in your journal that you have chronic diseases, so you don't have to get new medical certificates on it. It is a matter that also residents in my household and the Minister for Health are concerned about. Nevertheless, the government parties are voting this down, even though it would be important and would make life easier for very many people who have chronic disabilities and chronic diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1651	It is good that the Father Zechariah is corrected in the misunderstanding that he made. If someone doesn't want criticism of the matter he referred to, it's Olaug V. Bollestad. I will – briefly – address what Mr Nävra was about. He's absolutely right, there's too much sector-based, and a lot of public health work in Norway is happening anywhere other than in the health sector. The goal must be that people don't need healthcare, and there I think a lot of parties agree. Much of this lies in county policy, and something lies in municipal policy, by facilitating bicycle paths and travel goals and outdoor arrangements. So there we are completely in line. A small explanation of vote – that is in place – on behalf of the government parties and the Christian People's Party: we will not vote in favour of either proposal No. 30, 31 or 32. As regards proposal No: 30, an evaluation is already in progress. As regards proposal No: 31 is something that is black, as we see it. And in the case of proposal No. 32, it is that we have a quality register for both heart starter and pacemaker, and we are not refusing to extend this to a register in line with what the representative has on it, but we do not think it right to support that proposal today. However, we look with goodwill at all the good proposals, and then we would like to have an assessment of what is right to do. With that, I would like to thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1660	That was the point that the representative of Stensland raised, which is also my point. It is quite interesting for someone who is not on the Health and Care Committee to follow up on what is the good policy in this area. The representative, Bruun-Gundersen, said here that the new government had managed to treat 1.6 million more patients, contrary to the fact that in 2017, the Workers' Party had a plan to treat 1 million – understood: the government parties were better. It's a cross of thought. There are no other areas in which the Storting suggests that one is successful if there is a lot of misery to be treated. I have to say that the representative of Stensland was on the blink now, despite his previous personal attacks, when he said that the point is not to use the health services. In this regard, and as far as I know, it's the fixed medical system that's incredibly central to who's being referred to the specialist health service. Therefore, the Centre Party has the strong focus and commitment to the fixed medical system. There is a need for an effort to be made towards those in need of assistance to try to address their needs at the lowest possible level. It is to ensure that as little as possible is sent to the specialist health service. This is also why prevention needs to be given priority. I hope that we no longer get statements from this pulpit that one is very pleased that now there has been a phenomenal increase in the number of people treated. That's no good. It is to have the least possible patients, that as far as possible do not get sick, and that as much as possible is treated by the prescriber and helped where they are, and is not passed on to an animal, extensive and demanding specialist health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1670	The representative Sveinung Stensland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1675	I see that it takes less time to squander with the representative Toppe than with the representative Lundtigen, but enough about the exchange of lines we had a little while ago. I attacked the central party's policy and not the representative Toppe. When it comes to not coming to the doctor, it's not negative that more people get treatment, it's not negative that the queues go down, and we don't get back everything we spend on prevention next year – it takes a long time. We see that with the phase-in of the interaction reform, which was more or less well-balanced with the fact that fewer people would get sick. It takes time for prevention to work. But we agree on the goal, the representative Lundtigen and I: the goal is that the least possible become ill.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1684	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1689	The representative of Stensland, of all people, has no cover for his attack on the Central Party's health policy spokeswoman, Kjersti Toppe. There is no basis for what he said. That's what's behind my clear characteristic of such an article. It is usually an advantage that it is the least possible in a condition of health. The centre party is happy about that. The score is as low as possible in sick people, treatment at the lowest possible level and as high as possible in prevention — that is what really brings joy and reduction of government expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1696	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1712	Now it's me standing between the Saturday pizza and you -- or the fish taco that we might eat in the health committee. I have 15 minutes to explain the fact that the entire committee is behind the content of this proposition. [[Laughter]] That's interesting, because it's pretty big sums we put off last year, that haven't been used. That's a good thing about the budget debate we have, which is about million items here and there. So we have large amounts that aren't used by what we set aside. And once we've adjusted them, they've been described as dramatic cuts. In other parts of the world, there is a focus on accounts and performance targets, while in the Storting we are busy in the budget and not so busy in the follow-up to the budget. – In this way, the Committee has been behind the contents of Prop. 25 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1721	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Case No. 3–17 concerns the second reading of legal acts, and the President will propose that the cases be dealt with together. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1896	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 3-17.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1908	The size is then ready to go to voting over today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1917	A total of 32 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-20, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 21, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposal No 22, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 23-25, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party proposed no. 26 and 27, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 28 and 29, from Sheida Sangtarash on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 30-32, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 32, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to promote a case for the establishment of a national pacemaker register in Norway.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1958	Proposal No. 31 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the work on the electronic exchange of messages in the municipalities is continued upon the liquidation of the state resources of the Komut and that the municipalities are given time to change so that this work does not stop.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1975	Proposal No. 30, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Health Nord RHF undergoes and modifies its practice of patient travel regulations, in particular with regard to the patient’s right to recover costs of taxis or additional costs of car use, including: when missing scheduled services make this necessary. The choice of way of travel must be based on judgement with a high emphasis on distance, geographical and traffic conditions and total travel time.» The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e1992	Proposal No. 28 and 29, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government is not asked to carry out the proposed transfer of payments for medicinal products from public funds to health establishments.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to liquidate input-driven financing in the somatic sector.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e2016	Proposal No. 27, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to liquidate the group model in health management.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e2034	Proposal No. 26, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for national production capacity on the vaccines included in the paediatric vaccination programme.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e2051	Proposal No. Twenty-five, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the removal of the restriction to prevent health sisters and midwives from being entitled to all forms of contraception for young people under 16 years of age.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e2068	Proposal No. 24, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that manual therapists are included in line with the chiropractors in establishing a five-year master’s training.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e2085	Proposal No. 23, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government, through the management of health businesses, to ensure that no significant changes are made to the emergency medical chain, pending a roll-out of the prehospital services.’; The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e2102	Proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to assess whether the increased cost of obtaining authorisation results in a socio-economic loss by not using health professionals trained abroad’s competences and labour resources in our common healthcare service, and to further assess the profitability of reducing the cost of obtaining authorisation.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e2119	Proposal No. 21 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reduce the proportion of input-driven funding in the somatic sector to a maximum of 40pst.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left and Red have every subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e2139	Proposal No. 1-20, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take initiatives for international cooperation in order to maximise access to new medicines.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that in 2019 there will be a higher level of activity in mental health protection and drug alone than in the somatic environment, and to report on developments in the revised national budget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to equate ready-to-print patients with mental health and drug problems with ready-to-print patients with somatic health problems until a response and funding solution to compensate the municipalities is in place.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back with its own case in the State budget for 2020 on how to increase the number of LIS1 positions from 2020.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to establish concrete and measurable requirements for a higher proportion of full-time jobs in health establishments.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that all health enterprises have schemes with their own temporary work pool/employee units with permanent staff.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that hospitals generally employ people in permanent positions in order to ensure their competence and security.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to define the basic ICT infrastructure of healthcare providers under the requirements of the Safety Act on Protective Information.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks to amend the patient travel regulations so that it opens up to use common sense when patients need to travel, not least by ensuring that journeys by taxi are possible when it is clearly the most reasonable or reasonable option, for the patient and for society as a whole.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that specialist health services are exempted from flat cheese requirements in the government’s budget proposal for 2020 – if the government continues with the ABE reform.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an evaluation of the red tape and efficiency reform with a view to developing more targeted measures to improve efficiency.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to end the use of input-driven funding in mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment by the government in its proposals for the 2020 government budget.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the Public Health Institute’s framework against the responsibilities and tasks imposed.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure flexibility in the provision of day-time activities for residents of the elderly in order to apply to groups other than those with demonstrated dementia diagnosis or for which this is being investigated.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make a proposal for the restoration of the system of the Cultural Spaserstick, arranged so that all older people can have access to cultural experiences.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to take action during 2019 to ensure that all medical students can get more practice in the primary health service.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government requests the prompt promotion of measures ensuring the safe supply of essential medicinal products to children in Norway, where appropriate by considering incentives to promote research, and the development and availability of, medicinal products for children, and by providing appropriate information to the size of children.’; Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up Decision No. 473 of 13 February 2018 in the revised national budget 2019.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up Decision No. 471 of 13 February 2018 during 2019.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a plan to gradually step up the number of educational positions in general medicine during 2019.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e5455	First I and V will be the wetter. Behind the advice is the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e5471	It shall be weighed over II, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e7250	Case No. 3–17 is the second time the law is handled and the law is in force between 21 and 35. There are no comments suggested. Thus, the law of the Storting is passed on the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-15.ana.ud581e7328	As a result, the issues on today's map are finished. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
