ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e37	I am pleased to announce that the President of the Liechtenstein Parliament, Albert Frick, is on an official visit to Norway. He's present at the Guest Gallery. It is a great pleasure to welcome him and his delegation to the Storting. [[The representatives applauded]] I hope our guests will have an interesting and pleasant stay with us in Oslo, and that the visit will continue strength the bilateral cooperation between our two parliaments and countries. The following alternates have taken their seat: For Buskerud County: Tonje Kopastad For the state of Hordaland: Sigurd Hille For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai For the North Tribute County: Bjørn Arild Gram For South-Trundellag County: Tove Eivindsen For Eastfold County: Siv Henriette Jacobsen Four permit applications are available: from the Socialist Left Group on the welfare leave of the representative Mona Fagerås from 9 October to 12 October by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of the Party of European Socialists, Mazyar Keshvari, from 9 October until further notice from the representative of Fredric Holen Bjørdal on parental leave from 10 October to 12 October from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative of Hege Haukeland Liadal from 11 October to 18 October to take part in the 139th session of the Interparliamentary Union, and meetings, in Geneva Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Oslo, Carl I. Hagen, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget from 9 October to 16 October, under the authority of the representative Mazyar Keshvari. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Julia Wong, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in the Stortinge under the authority of the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal, from 16 October to 18 October, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For More and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve 10-11. October For the Nordic counties: Marius Meisfjord Jösevold 9-11. October For Oslo: Geir Hågen Karlsen 9–16. October and Carl I. Hagen October 17th and until further notice For Rogaland County: Erik Ludvigsen October 11th and Tom Kalsås 16th-18th. October
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e156	Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold and Geir Hågen Karlsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e167	The President will state that, in the context of a closed hearing of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on Monday 22 October 2018, an enquiry has been made by the Committee requesting that the political advisers of the members of the Committee – one from each of the members’ groups – be present in addition to the members of the Committee themselves at the closing hearing. It is assumed that, like other participants in the hearing, these policy advisers are safe for information up to HOME. The President proposes that the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee be met. Is there any objection to this? I don't think so. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e189	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e205	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e221	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e230	Saka we are dealing with today, is about securing the Kongsberg Group's ability to buy up the Rolls-Royce Commercial Marine. The size shall agree that the State having the right to grant the Kongsberg Group capital in order to carry out the purchase. This happens through a so-called preferential right-rights-semision. The state’s ownership of the Kongsberg Group is just over 50 pst. The State’s contribution to the issue will be about 2.5 billion. kr. This is a joyous thing in many ways. Firstly, it will strengthen Kongsberg's maritime activity. Secondly, it will hopefully be positive for Kongsberg's shareholders over time. The case and the purchase will also secure the future of many of the 1,600 who are added to the Rolls-Royce Marine in Norway. If you're going to describe the situation in the Rolls-Royce Marine with a little wide pen, it hasn't been very good for the company in recent years. The cause is also positive for those of us who believe that a state ownership of important strategic national companies is a strength. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the case shows – and is proof – that the Storting can be effective in its proceedings and does not stand back for the decision time in the private sector. From the cases passed the State Council until the nutrition committee gave it away for six days. The committee could have done it in four days if it was about to do, but the Stortinges discussion process suggested that we had a little better time. So it took eleven days from the case passed by the state council until today we make a decision. I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to the Committee and the State Council, which have contributed to the rapid progress of the treatment process. It is a strength for the Kongsberg Group and for the State which owns that there is a joint nutrition committee that supports the proposal for a decision on the matter. After all, it's 2.5 billion. kr is involved, and even for the state it is not a change of currency. It is also important to be aware that this is not a completely risk-free purchase. Although the issue is recommended by the Board of Directors of the Kongsberg Group and by both the Department and the Ministry's advisers – they are positive – he is therefore not without risk. So I want to raise to the big thing what's coming out of the proposition: «At the same time, the company's purchase, issue and country's participation in it represent a non-negligible risk, as future value developments and returns are uncertain.» Kongsberg Gruppe is a company that is fantastically important to Norway. It is important to maintain a state majority ownership in the Kongsberg Group, and I therefore assume that in the next ownership message it is not relevant for the government to propose, as one did last, a state hall in the Kongsberg Group.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e246	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the work that has been done. Then I can add that the government here has made good considerations and good judgements in presenting this matter. Then it goes quickly in Stortinget, and then we don't have to spend much time promoting matters. This is an incredibly important matter. There are two significant companies for Norway in their own way, but nevertheless in parallel, which are now being brought together. It is strategically important for Norway in the future, it is strategically important for the Kongsberg Group to strengthen its maritime group – they do so through this issue – and it is strategically important for the entire maritime cluster to get a firm hand on the Rolls-Royce Commercial Marine in view of future strategic arrangements. So this is a win-win situation that has a big industrial significance, and that's important strategically. A little bit back to the political, because there is a political undertone here, with which the rapporteur-in-Office concluded. When we received the ownership message last time, there was a strong desire from the government to sell itself into the Kongsberg Group. Fortunately, it was not implemented, it was stopped. I hope that one also sees through this case the importance of maintaining ownership in the Kongsberg Group of over 50 p.m. Had a start to water it out, it has other effects, not only on the maritime part, but not least on the defence part that the Kongsberg Group holds, and which I think it is absolutely vital that we have full control of by having a ownership of over 50 p.m. This clearly demonstrates the importance of state ownership. When we show the willingness to participate in this corrected issue of money, it's precisely because we want to maintain ownership of over 50 pst. The action space when you are completely "close to" 50 pst. may also be somewhat limited, as many transactions and various industrial disposals actually take place in different ways, whether through cash or through the management of shares. So the vulnerability is just 50 pst. is clearly present. This is now solved through this directed issue – our participation is 2.5 billion. kr – in an excellent and good way. I think this shows the dimensions of this matter and the political differences – that the majority of the committee is not involved in the last comment and underlines the importance of state ownership and long-term industrial thinking through the state ownership of this matter. I'm glad that we agree to join in on this, and that we are now doing it to a company that I believe has strategic importance in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e259	Let me first of all say that the Christian People's Party of course supports the Government of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries participating pro rata in the preferential rights issue in accordance with the state's ownership of the Kongsberg Group ASA to finance the purchase of the Rolls-Royce Commercial Marine. It was a joyous day when the news came that the Kongsberg Group was the buyer of the Rolls-Royce Marine. In More and Romesdal, where the Rolls-Royce Marine has a significant activity, there has been great concern for the future and the jobs as there was uncertainty about who would become the new owner. That finally became the Kongsberg Group, is very happy. The Kongsberg Group is a leading company that has both experience and knowledge to continue and develop the professional environments of the Rolls-Royce Marine. For the first time in many years, the business is now back in Norwegian hands. Norway is one of the few countries with a complete maritime food cluster. It is the result of centuries of Norwegian shipping and shipbuilding. The continued leadership of Norway in what is perhaps the most globalised industry in the world, and where competition is tough every single day, is a result of innovative and forward-looking actors in good interaction with governments that value the innovative power and value creation that exist in this industry. In my home country, More and Romesdal, we have a complete, world-leading maritime cluster of which we are rightly proud. Rolls-Royce Marine has had and still has a key position in this cluster. They have a competence and experience to further Norwegian industrial competence. The history of industry in Norway is the story of how experience and competence from one industry form the basis for the next. This is evidence of the importance of maintaining and further developing national industry and competences. Through this purchase, the Rolls-Royce Marine becomes part of the competence environment in the Kongsberg Group, and thus a grip is taken that will preserve and further develop Norwegian maritime industrial competence for the future. This is how we create jobs and value creation, and we ensure the well-being of future generations. This is therefore a joyous day for More and Romesdal, but also for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e274	I would also like to thank the Committee and the rapporteur for their prompt treatment. I am also very pleased that an overall committee ends up on this proposal. It is important, I think, both for state ownership and for companies, that there is broad political consensus. Kongsberg Group is a listed international group providing high-tech systems and solutions in the offshore, oil and gas industry, the merchant fleet, defence and space. The state owns 50.001 pst. of the shares in the company. The board of directors of the Kongsberg Group announced on 6 July 2018 that the company has concluded an agreement to purchase the Rolls-Royce Commercial Marine. The parties agree on a price of about 5.4 billion. kr. The board of directors of the Kongsberg Group wants to finance this purchase with new equity through an issue. The Board considers that this new equity is both sufficient and necessary to cover the purchase price, working capital and investments, without weakening the ability of the Kongsberg Group to continue to operate and develop its other activities. In addition, the Board of Directors is planning to raise debt securities. The Kongsberg Group proposes to hold an extraordinary general meeting with a proposal to conduct a preferential distribution where all shareholders have the opportunity to subscribe for new shares on equal terms. This will be carried out after the Storting has examined the proposition and, where appropriate, taken the proposed decisions. The issue must be adopted by the General Assembly of Kongsberg Group by a two-thirds majority. Therefore, the proposed issue cannot be carried out if not by the State, by 50,001 pst. of the shares, votes in favour of the proposal. Rolls-Royce Commercial Marine is an international actor with its centre of gravity in the industrial cluster at Sunnmøre. In recent years, the Rolls-Royce Commercial Marine has experienced significant reductions in activity levels due to challenging market conditions, particularly in offshore activities. These activities are currently not profitable and have experienced significant deficits in recent years. The board of the Kongsberg Group believes that the purchase of the Rolls-Royce Commercial Marine will strengthen the company’s competitiveness in the global maritime sector and the role of the Norwegian maritime cluster. The Management Board expects that the purchase will allow for more sales related to increased deliveries of integrated packages and services, and cost synergies are expected. A main priority for the Kongsberg Group after completion of the transaction will be to realise synergies and generate profitability in the purchased business. The Ministry has submitted a proposal that the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries be authorised to participate in a capital increase of about 5 billion. kr i Kongsberg Gruppe. The State’s share of the issue will be approximately 2.5 billion. kr. In case of pro rata participation, the State will maintain its ownership of the Kongsberg Group. As indicated in the proposal, to which the Committee also refers in its recommendation, there is a not insignificant risk associated with such a transaction, as future value developments and returns are uncertain. There is probably also a rather demanding transition to make the purchase successful. That being said, the government considers participation in the announced issue as an investment suitable for providing the State with a good return, which is also supported by the Ministry's external adviser. Participation in the issue will therefore also be in line with the State’s objective of ownership. Let me conclude by saying that in many ways it is in such matters that we see state ownership at its best. By contributing constructively as a shareholder and on the basis of cross-political consensus, the State as a shareholder contributes to the further development and pursuit of new business opportunities by key Norwegian companies in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e296	Before the previous elections – in the previous ownership message – the government proposed a hall in the Kongsberg Group, without making any demands on anyone who could buy the company. It could be Russians, it could be Chinese, anyone. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry were in Stortinget and defended this plan, before finally there came a sort of veil of reason across the whole, and one let the proposal go. My question to the Minister of Industry is not about dwelling on what was, but just asking: does the Minister of Industry see that it is positive that the State has a majority ownership in the Kongsberg Group?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e303	The answer to that is yes. We're going to submit a new ownership message to Stortinget, and then we're going to go through the ownership portfolio of the state as well. But as a general consideration, I think that in changed times, state ownership can also have new reasons. The Kongsberg Group is a special business, so I think it makes sense that the state has a significant ownership of the Kongsberg Group, yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e310	It warmed a social democratic heart when the Minister of Economic Affairs finally referred to this as state ownership at his best. I fully agree with that. The fact that the state thinks long-term, dares to take risks, sees the possibilities purely industrially through their ownership is of great importance. It has created great values for Norwegian society. It has built large, strong and powerful companies. We have values today for well over 400 billion. SEK, a return, dividends, to the state of 21 billion. kr in the state budget now presented – state ownership at its best. A minority of the Committee notes that this ‘emphasises the important role of state ownership in ensuring good, strategic and industrial bets and Norwegian jobs’. So it ends up with a minority in the committee. Does the Minister of Industry agree that this matter underlines the important role of state ownership in ensuring good, strategic and industrial bets and Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e317	It is – as I said in my post – at least an example of that. But you have to use that point with some care, because that doesn't mean that the state is automatically a good owner in all companies – even if all companies should have exactly the state ownership they have today, or that the state should at all be inside all the companies that the state is inside today, in general. For example, this government has sold itself out of SAS. There was no good reason for the state to sit on a little less than 10 pst. of the shares. Then I just want to remind you of something for the reason – I think – that the state ownership has gradually become more aideological. It is partly that part of us on the right side may have become more concerned with the positive aspects of state ownership, but also that some on the left side have become more concerned that this is not under-use by the state. These are market enterprises, commercial enterprises, and must also be treated in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e325	At least I believe that the left-hand side of Norwegian policy that I stand for has treated these companies as market companies and from the position they are in. When the Council of State draws this up that the state is not necessarily a good owner in all companies, I assume that in the companies for which the Minister of Industry is responsible, the state is a good owner, and that good ownership is not necessarily a matter of selling down. It's one could get the impression of thinking about the Right's ideological approach to state ownership over time. With regard to the Kongsberg Group in concrete terms, I expect the government to continue to see the importance of maintaining strong ownership, long-term ownership and ownership of over 50 pst. Can the Council of State now confirm that it is the intention of the government, in the case we are now dealing with, and the corrected issue and participation in connection with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e334	First, it's nice that I get the opportunity to clarify that it might be better to say the right owner than the good owner. The state is a good owner — also because the Storting has adopted some ownership principles that have been followed by several governments in general. It's a little difficult to go in and comment on each company – I understand that it's only the Kongsberg Group right now, that is, when we're going to make a new ownership message. But what I can say is that there is a reason why the government is now choosing to go in and propose – and get support from Stortinget to – to buy up to keep the state holding. It wouldn't have been necessary. Of course you could have an issue, and then you could let the state's ownership get watered out. That's what we have chosen not to suggest, and that's another reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e341	I take a line because the Kongsberg Group is a company that is close to my heart, which has previously been active both in the Ministry of Defence and in terms of industrial repurchase agreements and industrial agreements in general. I also fought very hard to keep ownership when the ownership message came last time, and I will continue to fight for it the next time, because the Kongsberg Group has not only a state ownership, but also a significant industrial creation cooperation with the Defence Research Institute that enables technologies to be seen in a broader context. It's not just about ownership and making money. The Council of State replied to the question of whether he wanted to have significant State ownership in the Kongsberg Group, that he wanted to have a «significant» state ownership. Is it so that a significant state ownership means a controlling state ownership, which is absolutely crucial here, and not just a significant one?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e348	That I hesitate a little bit is simply because we're going to have a message of ownership, and that's where everything will come up. As everyone knows, of course, there are the usual processes in the government before that. But, as I say, the combination of the two things, it's never been a matter of the state having a controlling ownership, and that we're now part of the issue, so we're using 2.5 billion. kr to maintain state ownership, say something about what is government policy. I just want to add, as a general comment, that I think that ownership policy in the decades to come will face a number of challenges that may not have been equally addressed in the previous 10-15 years, such as: can address just security policy issues. I think that kind of issues will be clearer and clearer in part of our ownership policy. We see it in other things, for example. in the processing of the Security Act, such as, inter alia: imposes some restrictions on the purchase of Norwegian businesses, that this type of problem gets us ever closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e353	The reason why a socialist heart is also glad that the state is going in so heavily and ensures that the maritime part of the Rolls-Royce is still in Norwegian hands is simply that it's quite right in a national perspective. Of course, if we are to become a large port, we must ensure both ownership and competence jobs in Norwegian hands. So it's interesting to follow up on how the government has changed its mind on these questions. For example, in the case of Ekorenes, the government was not interested in intervening. Then another actor bought it up. It was a considerable competence attached to it – industrial production of a high global class. But in this case, a changed strategy. Then my question is, because the Council of State said that the times have changed, and I want to hear a little more about it. What has changed, and what has changed the strategy now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e358	It has never been the government’s – or any government – policy that any activity purchased by foreign actors should go in and buy up instead. It's possible that it was a kind of policy 40 years ago, but I haven't heard about it in the last 20 years. That has never been the case. Of course, the state does not enter and take ownership of any enterprise, even if it is important. Although Ekorenes is a fantastic Norwegian success story, it is of course not relevant that the state should go and buy it up instead. My point is that security policy issues that are also about national interests in the long term, I think, will shape ownership policy more in the future. One last addition: it's very good, and it's a conservative heart, that SV is now very concerned with Norwegian ownership. It would be nice if you could do that when you look at what Norwegian owners need, for example. not to be charged with a strange tax on Norwegian owners who do not have Chinese, American or British.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e365	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e373	This is a joyous thing, and it is incredibly funny that we can get new policies together at a time that is demanding on many fronts. Our country is built up by an active industrial policy in many fields: the sea, the coast, agriculture and not least an active industrial thinking that has been particularly prominent since World War II. It is very forward-looking to bring along the best of knowledge from those who have built our country before, into the time we live in, when, among other things, we are. shall be able to deal with and prevent a disaster in view of climate change. If there is one area where Norway can really contribute, it is just within that maritime area to ensure that the world has access to the best of new and clean technologies. Industrial policy from this room for the use of natural resources and the expertise of the industry in Norway will be one of the most important contributions to a forward-looking development in the world, while telling the story of how this goes hand in hand with a welfare state that also distributes values. We need to raise forward. On September 7th, the new number came from the SSB. Unfortunately, these figures showed that the development of industrial production in Norway is now very weak. From May to July, industrial production in Norway increased by only 0.4 pst. – only 0.4 pst. We know that investment in new industries and forward-looking activities in Norway needs to be much higher in the next few years. In Sweden, the level before the financial crisis is now high, while we are far behind in Norway. It shows that we need more of the kind of strategic joys we have today to increase investment in new businesses and industry in Norway. It'll determine if we can still create the values we need. One thing like this needs to be seen in the light of what work we want in Norway. In the spring, the majority in the United Kingdom became responsible for regular jobs and cut short-term old-fashioned renting of poorly paid labour. And we know that there's one thing that benefits the industry in Norway, it's just that we have a country with small differences between people, where the industry can gain access to the top skilled workforce. We are often more competitive here, while small differences help to stimulate the use of new technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e385	I just thought I'd take the word for the last comment to the Council of State, which wants to present political opponents in a very simple way, as if SV thinks the state should own everything. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. There has never been an SV proposal. What has our SV's line is that the state should involve itself in things that are strategically important to the nation of Norway. What is strategically important for the nation of Norway now? We're going to have a reduction in the activity in the petroleum field either way, or not for the next ten to twenty to thirty years. That means that the income of society will inevitably go down. So we have to find other bones — other industries and industries — to stand on. We need an active state for that to happen, because it doesn't happen by itself. It is only to look at the statistics of the sitting government. Then one sees that there's actually no green shift happening at all. Therefore, it is good that one has entered the maritime and marine parts of the Rolls-Royce, in order to secure these jobs in Norwegian hands. Not least do something with the Kongsberg Group. Kongsberg The group will change its role as a result. So, the line that the government has had for a long time, this laissez-faire policy, is bad national policy. It's a bad business policy, and there's a bad policy meeting the challenges Norway faces. It seems that it is this reality that is beginning to fall over the government, at least in this single case. Then we'll see when we get the ownership message, if the reality has fallen down there as well, if a now is willing to leave the laissezfaire line that one has led so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e393	Last year the Business Committee was in Finland. There we got a very interesting lecture on how heavy and strategic Finland is now betting on becoming world leader within a climate-friendly fleet with new ships for both passengers and not least goods. So here's a great opportunity. We know, as the representative Knag Fylkesnes was inside, that we need to scale up and really put a real ‘driving’ on investment in new industries. I hope that the Storting can gather on a truly offensive strategy for how Norway can be world leaders, and not least that we are actually using the really short time window that we now have. Then this day should mark a starting point for a joint work. After all, our country is called "Norway" in English, the way to the north. That's a lot thanks to the great resources we find along the coast. Here we have to see all the possibilities. We also know that having a forward-looking policy for transporting goods climate-friendly goes hand in hand with, for example. having a world-leading commitment to the use of forest resources and bringing new products within the bioeconomy to the rest of the world. Today actually marks a very great day for our country, for a new and forward-looking industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e398	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e410	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-09.ana.ud6e760	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
