ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e87	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the West-Agder counties: Mathias Bernander For Akershus County: Solveig Schytz and Oddvar Igland For Oslo: Olivia Corso Salles For Rogaland County: Eirik Faret Sakariassen For Eastfold County: Arve Sigmundstad From the Workers' Group there is a notice that the granted leave of the representative of Eirik Sivertsen has been withdrawn from 7 May until 9 May. – This message is taken into account. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group to the representative of Mazyar Keshvari from 7 May until further notice. – This application is proposed to be dealt with immediately and in agreement. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Oslo, Carl I. Hagen, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget. Other alternates of Oslo, Geir Hågen Karlsen, are invited to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Geir Hågen Karlsen is present and wants to take a seat. The representative of Mona Fagerås will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e145	I would like to submit a proposal for a representative from the local representatives Freddy André Øvstegård, Audun Lysbakken and myself on the statutory right to SFO/AKS space. I would also like to make representations from the representatives of the local authorities Lars Haltbrecken, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself on youth education with final rejection of asylum applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e152	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e159	The President will propose the election of one President of the Stortinge meeting this week and one President of the Stortinge meeting on Tuesday – and considers it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg and Ingerd Schou. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings, and Mr Schou is unanimously elected as chairman of the Sittings of Tuesday’s meeting in Stortinget. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e181	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e197	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e213	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e222	The Norwegian welfare model is based on everyone doing their duty and demanding their right. Work provides a sense of mastery and an opportunity to contribute to the community, but, unfortunately, many fall out of work for various reasons. Many of these, however, have a desire and an opportunity to work. Everyone has a responsibility to get back to work, but at the same time the public has to offer activity and help to people, so that they get back to work. SV is positive that social assistance recipients are given a real opportunity and right to activity, but would stress that if this is not adapted to the individual, it is of little help and is not felt as meaningful. If people outside the labour force are sent out into low-quality activities with little follow-up, it may make their way back to work heavier. Unfortunately, the National Audit Office’s survey of the management and use of labour market measures in Nav, which was handed over to the Stortinget in February, shows that too many are still out of the labour market after the end of work training. Only half of those who have taken action get a job after one year. 75 pst. in the case of persons with disabilities, there is still no job one year after labour market measures. This shows that the scheme does not work well enough today. The study shows that in many of the cases there is no evidence that the measure has been considered necessary or appropriate for the participant to obtain or retain gainful employment. Many participants lacked activity plans and follow-up plans. It is important for public authorities to set up and use resources on people in order to gain experience and tools they can use to get a job, but resources must then be adapted individually. Not all people need the same measures. All people are different, and the working life is different. We have to give different people equal opportunities. Then you can't imagine that assembly line treatment is the right way to get people back to work. The National Audit Office also points to a long waiting period and a lack of follow-up as a reason why people are not able to get back to work today. The idea of delivering on a permissive basis and getting as needed is important for the welfare country. Anyone who has the ability to contribute should do so, but one should not be forced into work if one is unable to do so. Therefore, SV is skeptical of a general obligation for all social welfare recipients, all the time it is uncertain whether this is the right way to get people back to work and many cannot get back to work today. The Red-Green Government in its time examined whether municipalities are using the right to impose activity requirements, with the current legislation. The municipalities commented at the time that the use of discretion under the Social Services Act was sufficient as a tool to demand, and thus achieve, activity. On the other hand, the municipalities that made little use of activity requirements pointed to resource shortages as a challenge for more active use. This problem will be even greater if the activity obligation becomes applicable to all, as proposed by the government. Therefore, it is more important that municipalities are provided with a sufficient economy, so that they can follow up participants in labour market measures and offer activity to more people receiving social assistance. Although our ambition must be to get the most out of work, we cannot focus solely on legislation and legal texts. These are people, often people in a difficult situation, who have to be treated afterwards. Therefore, we need to focus more on individual follow-up and actions that help the individual get back to work. Based on this, I will present SV's proposal No. 6 in the setting: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of its own case with an assessment of how a right to activity can be designed for all beneficiaries of economic social assistance.’ We want to use the resources to help people get back to work. Although individual plans and more adapted measures may be costly, society is losing many out of work. In addition, each individual loses to being outside. We have to make sure that anyone who can get a firm, secure job. We have to spend the resources on the many, not the few. With that, I would like to address the other proposals that SV is included in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e248	The representative Eirik Faret Sakariassen has taken up the proposal he referred to, as well as the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e253	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good work on the matter. It's an important thing. The Workers' Party has promoted this proposal that a right of activity should follow the decision of the majority of citizens on the obligation of activity for all beneficiaries of social assistance for one reason: it is a matter of propriety. It is about values that are important for the Workers' Party, security and justice for all. It's about seeing each one for who you are, and what you can't, not who you're not, and what you can't. Our welfare society has been fighting for more than a hundred years, under constant resistance from the right forces. I have registered that the government parties, especially the Right Representatives, have recently resorted to a rhetoric where they start many of their posts here in the Stortinget with phrases – and I say phrases because I have been formerly clubbed down by the President when I have called it flocculation – as ‘we do what is best for the country’ and ‘we all agree that’, etc. When, in this case, the majority, Right, Advance Party and Left refer to the old but still valid slogans of the labour movement ‘Do your duty, demand your right’ with the wording that ‘the Norwegian welfare society is based on everyone’s duty and claim their right’, it becomes small comical. What rights have these parties gone for? I'm going to be honest and make an exception for the Left, but it's getting pretty long ago. In recent times, the Left has clearly placed itself on the civil side with regard to the rights of ordinary people. So no, we don't all agree that -- we're fundamentally in disagreement, even when it comes to what we're going to do for people who've been in a situation where they're dependent on social assistance. Social assistance is the last part of our security network. Then you're beyond the reach of the people. You are given what the municipality you live in is set up, and it varies. The obligation to provide social assistance is not new. Access to conditions for receipt of social assistance was already regulated under the Third Government of Harlem Brundtland in 1991. This provision has been in force since the last time. The assumption has always been that it should be managed in a sense. Activity requirements shall be set where it is possible to recover reasonable activity, based on individual assumptions. When we carried out the Nav reform, a good offer was to social welfare recipients who were at risk of staying on social assistance over a long period of time, one of the most important concerns. Therefore, the qualification programme was introduced, with extended benefits to those who committed themselves to a programme of qualification for their own work. I allow myself to remind the Advance Party that they as the only party voted against the qualifying aid. I'm going to be the first to admit that the qualification programme has not entirely met our expectations. The taboo was probably that we introduced in the law a provision that in the amendments to the social services law § 29 we did not go far enough in rights fixing, but adopted in the letter c: «The right to a qualification programme requires that the labour and welfare management can offer an adapted programme.» There has probably been more sleep cushion for the administration than for the beneficiaries of social assistance. So duty of activity is nothing new. What is new is that the government with the civil majority was first given a decision that the obligation of activity should apply to all, regardless of what the local government thought was reasonable for the individual social welfare beneficiary. It is also new that the decision was not implemented and was therefore limited to beneficiaries under 30 years of age. The new thing is that we propose that the obligation of activity be followed by a right to meaningful activity for all social welfare recipients. It's the bourgeois people against it. When they say in the setting of the case that it is ‘happy that, despite previous resistance to the right of activity and the obligation of activity, it is now proposed to consider extending this right to all recipients’, it is a false. Obligations of activity have been in force since 1991. The right of activity has never been proposed by citizens, but it has been voted against on several occasions. It is documented in Stortinget's archive. They will vote against that right today as well. The majority of citizens are only engaged in compulsory activities. The difference between us is value-based. The working party, SV and the Centre are concerned that the taskbar should be an opportunity, not a whip. The bourgeois majority assumes that the beneficiaries of social assistance are opt-outs who must be kept in the ears. We have faith that people will and can do both if they are prepared to do so in a way that is adapted to the individual. I would like to mention proposal No. 5, where the Workers' Party is with the Center Party. The other proposals we are on were taken up by the previous speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e273	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e278	I believe that the individual will as well as can if society facilitates it. It's one of the prerequisites for both Right ideology and anchoring in the individual human being. The right started to work with employees' rights before the Workers' Party was represented at Stortinget. So it's not a speck when I say that the Norwegian welfare society is based on everyone doing their duty and demanding their right, because that's what we're in for. Everyone shall contribute to their work and activity, and at the same time society shall provide opportunities for activity and assistance that can improve the individual's ability to do just that. Society must make demands, but must also make demands for the individual. This is the government's work on the obligation of activity. Despite the fact that the Social Services Act has also previously opened up conditions to beneficiaries of social assistance, as mentioned here, a study from Proba Social Analysis in 2013 shows that there were very wide variations between municipalities in the fulfilment of this. That's why the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, already in the autumn of 2016, entered into a duty of activity – which is what we are discussing today – against the voices of those behind today's proposal. The change gave the municipality an obligation to impose conditions of participation in activity when granting social benefits for the purpose of living unless, in some cases, there were serious reasons against it. Making demands on people is about taking people seriously. Without demands and expectations, many are at risk of being passive, making it even more difficult to get into work or education. The purpose of a statutory activity obligation was to strengthen the individual’s ability to get back to work or to work and become self-sufficient. This implies as much an obligation for the municipality as for the individual. The municipality shall provide both a low-threshold activity measure and more labour-oriented activities according to the individual’s needs. Therefore, an activity obligation was initially introduced for beneficiaries of financial support under 30 years from 1 January 2017, and a recent report from Proba Societal Analysis shows that the municipalities that immediately initiated the government's action, used the activity obligation, made demands for young people, got the number outside and many out of work or education. The right is of the opinion that making demands is a matter of concern, and the results show that the government’s labour market policy is working. I believe that today's proposal runs after the government's work in areas where the government has already initiated or announced new measures. The Institute for Social Research has been entrusted with the task of evaluating the obligation of activity. We want to know more about how the obligation of activity contributes to work and education, which activities are most effective, and whether the obligation of activity has unintended consequences – before further follow-up and expansion. In recent years, the Directorate for Labour and Welfare has implemented a number of measures to make the qualification programme available to all in the target group and to facilitate good quality in both the programmes offered and their follow-up. The proposal mentions, inter alia: The job opportunities, which were changed from 2017 to strengthen the skills of several groups to participate in the labour market, better skills in Norwegian and better understanding of Norwegian social life. This was also reinforced by increased appropriations. In the case of individual job support, efforts were expanded in 2018 to help more people with mental health problems get into work quickly with the assistance of a job specialist from the employment and welfare centre. Individual plans are regulated as a multi-legislative right, and there is already a job to build barriers and make it visible that this is part of a comprehensive service provision. We also want to support the freedom of action of Nav employees, and we should like to see this followed up by the proposers themselves in other proposals that affect Nav and the management of, for example, the number of posts in different actions through budget. For the government parties, this is also reflected in the JELUEA declaration, which states that the government will provide less central detail management and give Nav greater responsibility for ensuring the right actions at the right time for users. There is a very good reason to look at the cooperation between the state and the municipality in the Nav office to ensure that Nav has greater opportunities to dispose of its resources based on local circumstances, but this work is also in progress. Many of today's societal challenges have complex causes and require solutions across disciplines and policies. In recent years, the government has put in place a number of initiatives to contribute to better coordination of state instruments across different sectors and better cooperation across different parts of the welfare system, including follow-up, housing-social measures, drug care, health services and child protection services. I believe that today's proposal is covered by ongoing work, precisely because we believe it is possible to help more people with better and more targeted actions, and that making demands is a matter of concern. For the Right, work is just more than a job, that pay means something more than income. It means community, mastering, inclusion and friendship. Therefore, Right will have the opportunity to participate as many as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e301	There is no doubt that the content of this proposal for a representative is something we are very concerned about and seem to be very important. Being at work, being able to handle yourself, especially financially, is enough something we all want. But it's not always that easy. Then it's good that we live in a country where those who need it can get help. To help people who are out of work get help to get into activity, preferably in permanent jobs, for those who are able to do it, is something that we all agree on and want. However, I would not recommend supporting the proposal, for several reasons. The representative proposal addresses several issues in areas where the government is either taking action or has announced new measures to develop supply even better. Then it's a little funny that you're asking for this right now and you're binding up both the committee, the state council and the department on time use, but I'm going to leave that discussion today. So the job the representatives are asking for is going well. The government has launched more measures and more are coming. It's just reading the letter of reply from the Council of State, you see the whole list of what's coming. The proposal addresses, inter alia: obligation of activity. An activity obligation for social assistance recipients is already in progress for them under 30 years of age. It was started on 1 January last year. As mentioned earlier today, the purpose of legalising the obligation of activity is to give the individual greater opportunities to get back to work or get back to work or get into activity, so that they can take care of themselves. Early efforts are important. We hear that in a lot of things. This also applies to getting people into meaningful activity. Those under 30 are our future. It's the people who are going to work and pay taxes, so that we who are good adults will get a good old age – to say it a bit banal. The scheme will apply in the long term to all beneficiaries of social assistance, but it is important to take the most important ones first, and then to evaluate the scheme before it is introduced for all. That those under 30 are the first ones out, I think they're quite natural. A youth between 18 and 19 years of age who needs social assistance in order to cope, I think it becomes more difficult to act as a result. You have to get them into activity early and give them the opportunity to get to work, and I think it might be a good idea to start with the younger ones. I think the youth may have been able to get into a bad pattern, be passive and not move on. I also think we should take time to evaluate the scheme well before we expand it. Sometimes you have to slow down a little bit to make sure it's done right. And as I said, the system was introduced on 1 January last year. There is a great deal of money put into it, both in this scheme and in other schemes. Several tens of millions are used each year, and then it's important to do it right. Finally, what is really positive about the proposal is that now it seems that everyone here in the Chamber agrees that we should have a duty of activity in the municipalities. That is – there are many who are in favour of a right of activity, but not of a duty. Anyway, I remember many years back in time when the Progress Party said that if you receive social assistance from the municipality, you should also work for it. That proposal was not received positively, to put it mildly. Fortunately, more people now realize that this can actually help those who receive this kind of benefit, that it gives them an opportunity to try, that they can get into activity, which can give them a better way into working life – those who have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e329	First of all, I would like to thank the Labour Party for its proposal. Doing his duty and claiming his right is also central to the Centre Party, and the most important thing in this case is proposal No. 5, which is behind the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, where it says: ‘The government is asking for a separate case to be brought forward by the government assessing how a right and obligation to activity can be designed for all beneficiaries of economic social assistance.’ These are people who are economically absolute among the most difficult of us. What we're talking about here is doing improvements. It's the entrance of the Center Party, not just like a pendulum that's going up, but a reality that's going to be implemented. Those who receive financial social assistance are people who fall outside, and it is important that those people should – either in work or that they get disability benefits. The people that this is about are people who are struggling. They're very different, the situations are very different. Some are easier to do a job for — together with the one in question — while others are in a very demanding situation because they have been in the conditions that apply when they are receiving social assistance for a long time. There's a lot of reasons why you're there. Both the own choices made and the behaviour of others have made one come into this situation. I would like to stress that very many of these people feel disrespected by the big community, feel that one has not been taken seriously and has not been called upon to do so. So it's a very demanding challenge. The government has introduced an activity obligation for young people under 30 years of age, and the proposal is to investigate it for all. I would say that some of the key measures to implement this must be to strengthen the qualification programme. As the representative Lise Christoffersen said, conditions today are such that Nav has a central role. It can't be that Nav can say that in this situation we can't offer a qualification program, and thus one doesn't get it. The qualification programme must be up and down. It is based on an individual assessment, and it is built on a full-year scheme, for up to two years. I would like to stress that for the people involved, it takes a long time to get the robustness needed to move on. The qualification programme is based on the fact that a person can be paid to participate, twice the basic amount, and that it is normal, full job. Those under the age of 25 get two-thirds benefit. It should be an interesting instrument both to combine a certain income base and to participate in a community and an activity which facilitates the emergence of one. I would also, in addition to the qualification programme, stress the increased freedom of action of the Nav staff. It is important that the Nav employees have knowledge of the people involved, so that they can have a complete follow-up. And it's important that the people involved have a contact person at Nav who knows the conditions and thus can make wise choices for him, along with him, when we know that the situation changes so much, depending on what conditions you're in. Finally, I would like to say that the municipalities have to be financially able to implement this arrangement with a right and obligation. It costs a lot of money, and it's demanding. There are many people today – I would say – who go too lye and cold water, and thus get a completely different situation, and there will be considerable financial expenditure. It is therefore important to strengthen the funding of the qualification programme. I think the government has to look again at the system we had before, with a designation of the qualification programme for the municipalities. In 2011 this came into the municipal framework and had a framework of 1 240 million. SEK and 9 200 participants. In 2016, the number of participants is down to 5,500. If we are to implement what is said here, the qualification scheme must stand up, and then this costs a lot of money, which pays off well for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e347	It's an important task in the future to give people who want and can, real opportunities to participate in the world of work, whatever their background or aspirations. For this reason, I am very pleased that it is not only the beautiful word ‘includement’ that was introduced in connection with the new government platform, but that the Left, together with the Right and the Advance Party, has now also made inclusion in the working life a major feature of the blue-green government. For the Left, all of us – employers, employees, politicians, voluntary, non-profit organisations – are taking a roof to open doors to those who want and can, into the meaningful everyday activities and jobs represent. In this way, the proposal of the Labour Party that we are dealing with today addresses an important issue that is absolutely both mandatory to discuss and to do something with, and which, in my opinion, is too important to reduce to Polish rhetoric. Fortunately, the proposal is to a large extent the repetition and variation of measures and initiatives already well under way by the government, and is now intensifying further. Social assistance recipients are a composite group with different needs, but there is no doubt that many of those who currently have social assistance as their sole income, both will and can work, and that even more people should be provided with it or with activities that increase the chance of getting a job later. For this reason, I am pleased that we are now implementing the goal that no Nav users under the age of 30 should go beyond eight weeks without having a job offer, education, work training or other relevant activity, that the state is now showing its way and committing itself to assigning people with holes in the CV for at least 5 pst. by the new additions, and to strengthen the functional assistance and training arrangements of the public administration and to provide people with reduced functionality with better access to assistance. We should ensure that the social security system stimulates work. Part of this is to sort out a system of permanent activity obligations, work for social security or social benefits for young people who we fear may fall permanently out of work. This is to mention some measures, for inclusion rates go across sectors and through the entire government platform. We can talk about activity rights and duties, but it's primarily about human beings – that society, the community, facilitates everyone who wants and can contribute, knows joy over maestering and accomplishing something, and will be able to do so on the basis of their own intentions. For the Left, it is obvious that the system should exist for the human being, not vice versa, take individual consideration and use tailors' room. A Left Party government will always have the drive to include everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e360	This proposal for a representative is about areas where, with the support of the Christian People's Party, the government has already seen and announced new measures. Everyone should contribute what they can to get into work and activity, but everyone must also have access to activity and help get into work and master the everyday life. Despite the fact that social services laws also previously opened up in order to impose conditions on people receiving social assistance, a 2013 Proba social analysis study showed that there were considerable variations between municipalities in terms of terms and follow-up. To make demands on people is to take them seriously and treat them with respect. The aim of legal right of activity and duty of activity was to strengthen the individual’s ability to get into work and take care of himself. It must represent an obligation for the municipality as much as for the individual. The municipality itself must offer both low-threshold activities and more labour-rights activities according to individual needs. I am pleased that there is now a proposal to consider extending this right to all recipients. The obligation of activity shall be evaluated by the Institute for Social Research. They have recently been assigned the task. It is then natural to wait for the knowledge from their distribution, that it may be the basis for further follow-up and extension. We want a better basis for decision when we know more about the obligation of activity – whether it leads to increased transition from work and education, what activities are most active, and whether the obligation of activity may have unintended consequences. Therefore, the Christian People's Party in this matter comes to the conclusion that we will await the outcome of the ISF, and that we will not support any of the proposals in the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e372	It is an important goal for the government to help more young people out of a passive life and into meaningful activity. That is why we have taken several cross-sectoral measures to achieve that objective. The proposers come forward with five proposals on the right of activity and the obligation of activity for social assistance recipients. All the proposals address issues in areas where the government has already initiated or announced new measures. On a proposal from the Government on 7 April 2015, the Storting decided to introduce an obligation for municipalities to lay down conditions for the activity of granting financial benefits. The background was a desire for increased use of these types of conditions and more similar practices for social assistance recipients. Municipalities experienced in setting conditions for activity can show good results, especially for young beneficiaries of social assistance. This was the background to the government’s proposal in the autumn of 2016 and was endorsed by the Stortingen that an obligation to operate for recipients under 30 years of age should be introduced in the first instance. It was set at 60 million in the 2017 state budget. kr for the purpose, which was consistent with the calculation of municipal additional costs, and the case was discussed with KS. I also notice that this was an appropriation that the Workers' Party cut in its alternative state budget. An evaluation of the experience of activity obligations for recipients under 30 years of age is under way and when the final report of this evaluation is available — estimated in the autumn of 2020 — the government will come back to Stortingen with an assessment and proposals for further follow-up. It is also requested that the government strengthen the use of the qualification programme, Jobjesen and Individual Job Support. In recent years, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, together with its staff, has implemented a number of measures to increase accessibility and improve the quality of the qualification programme. This work is continuing in 2018. Before Easter, the government sent several proposals for changes to the rules of the qualification programme which will, overall, expand the target audience and help make the programme more flexible and accessible than today. Jobjesen and Individual Job Support are strengthened in the state budget for 2018. In the spring of 2016, the government presented a major communication presenting key guidelines for the further development of labour and welfare management, one of which is to give the Nav offices greater authority and freedom of action. Another is that Nav should pay greater attention to the quality and performance of users and less attention to the counting of activities carried out. The Government is committed to strengthening the overall follow-up of users with complex needs. The duty of activity just gives us the opportunity to follow up closely. In recent years, the government has also launched a series of initiatives to contribute to better coordination of State instruments in different sectors and better cooperation across different parts of the welfare system, including the Nav office. Some examples are the housing social strategy Housing for well-being, the 0–24 cooperation and the strategy Reducing relapses to new crime. A new youth effort was introduced on 1 January 2017. The latest figures from the Statistical Centre show that both the number and proportion of young people outside of work, school and activity are now moving in the right direction for the first time in several years. The proposal on the obligation of activity resulted in a great deal of political resistance from the opposition when it was proposed and adopted. However, the reception out there has been very positive, not least from the young people themselves. They feel to be seen and taken seriously. They needed someone who had expectations of them, and who demanded some of them. This is a win-win situation for everyone. Youth remains active — someone goes back to school, others get a job — and municipalities save money. I'm glad that more people in this room now see that duty of activity is an advantage to everyone. That the current opposition parties have argued against this since the 1990s, gets to be, I'm glad that this now has a broad uprising.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e400	I will first just correct an obvious misunderstanding. We have not argued against duty of activity since the 1990s, we introduced it in 1991. In the position on the matter, the majority of the committee claims that there is already a right to activity and that our proposal on that matter is 'back-end'. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State says that the government will at a later stage return to Stortinget with an assessment of the question of the obligation of municipalities to impose conditions on activity to be extended to be also a right to activity. What I'm asking is, who is it that's trying to bring the Greatness behind the light – the majority of the committee or the state council? Is the court present today, or does it not exist?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e407	If the Workers' Party had been under an obligation of activity all along, they could have supported the proposal when it was promoted by the representatives Bernander and Kweinen as early as 1990. This has been promoted several times by the bourgeois parties, and it has been voted down every single time. But it's true that it's a can-determination, not a shell-determination, and that's what this discussion is about. It is true that the government wanted everyone to have an activity obligation, but Stortinget decided that this should not be introduced until it was fully financed against the municipalities and the municipalities should be compensated for the additional costs. After consulting KS, we calculated that for them less than 30, for whom the effect is greater and the significance might also be the most important, it costs 60 million. kr, and that was the government's choice of priorities. But now that the municipalities have created a system of duty of activity, a system for those to follow up, there is nothing in the way that the municipalities can also expand this and make use of it for everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e416	I did not get an answer to what I asked for. What I asked was simply: is what the majority of the committee says, that there is right of activity today, which is right, or is it what the Council's letter of reply states, that this right does not exist today, which is what is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e421	What the law says is that it's an activity obligation, but of course we can also say that in that it's an obligation to meet in the Nav office and perform different tasks or participate in different activities, there's also a right. But the law uses the word «obligation of activity». This right can be used by the Nav offices for all those in social assistance, but they have chosen to give priority to young people under 30. That is also what money has been allocated, but the municipalities are of course free to use this scheme for others as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e426	I thank you for your answer. I noticed that the Council of State said that the law says ‘obligation’, but that it could also mean that it is a right. Does that mean, then, that a social welfare beneficiary who has not received an offer of activity, with today’s legislation in hand, can go to the Nav office and say, ‘Look here, you actually have an obligation, and I have a right to have meaningful activity’?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e431	No, that's what I'm saying, the law says that it's an activity obligation. That's what might be one of the issues when the Storing is going to adopt guarantees and rights, that if we're going to have power behind it, it must also mean something if the obligation or guarantee is not introduced. The background to our decision to liquidate the three youth guarantees was that they proved to have no effect or significance. They did not have the impact that Stortinget once certainly intended for them to have. But the law says that you have an obligation to meet up and have activities when you are a social welfare beneficiary under 30, and I am happy that the opposition parties in this room now finally, after several decades, join this and believe that this is an advantage. It has taken a long time, but I am glad that we finally agree that it should be a duty, because the representatives of the Workers' Party have argued against this obligation every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e438	We are in the situation that everyone is in favour of an assessment of how the right and obligation of activity can be designed for all recipients of economic social assistance. Everyone goes in for that. However, we do not get any agreement on that proposal because the government says that you have already notified a case. I think it's sad that someone couldn't see more of it. Once agreed, the question is what action should be taken, and also at that point, everyone agrees – that the qualification programme is a good measure. I referred to how it's gotten smaller. My question, then, is: what is the extent to which the government sees the need for the qualification programme, and how should it be financed for the municipalities? It's a big economic problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e445	I don't agree with the story. It's not like everyone's been for an activity obligation. If everyone had been in favour of an activity obligation, this had already been agreed in 1990, when representatives Bernander and Keuben promoted this. This has been argued against and voted against all the years. Now it finally connects to it, and that's good. For the qualification programme: yes, it was earmarked earlier, and now it's included in the municipal framework. There's always a discussion about how many earrings you need, and how much is going to be free money. I think it is good – and as a former municipal politician, I am in favour – that as much as possible be included in the framework, and that it is up to local politicians’ judgement based on local considerations to prioritise. When it was introduced into the framework, it was based on the high figures that were then, to which the representative Lundtigen refers. Now there is a significant decrease in the number of persons in the scheme. There is also a background for the government to work to change the programme – just to lower the threshold and make it easier for more people to take advantage of the programme rather than other benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e452	The Council of State is talking about ending a passive life. It leads thoughts to people who don't want to work or activity, and I don't have any particular idea of that. In 2013, I received a host at the Nav office at the municipality of Eiganes and Tasta in Stavanger, and I met no one there who appeared as if they did not want to get into activity and work. Activity duty started Right-hand-steered Stavanger a while earlier, and then it was a good part that probably felt that they were just putting up for some kind of attendance registration. I and SV believe that meaningful activity is more important. You talk about this award winning quote – to make demands and make demands. It seems like you're more concerned with making demands. Then the question is, is it good enough for a meeting to be held with an attendance registration at the Nav offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e458	Too many people won't be. But we have been very clear that municipalities, i.e. the Nav offices, need to assess what is most appropriate for each youth. My main objective is that as many young people as possible go back to education, and if not, that you can get help to get to work. But it's obvious that having meaningful activities will have the most and best effect. For some people, meeting yourself may be a high enough threshold initially, but that's not what should be the permanent activity measure – it's quite obvious. Local authorities need to consider what is most appropriate for those users entering — the starting point for users, what they need, what needs they need, and what local business they may have in the city to provide meaningful activity and help them to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e463	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e470	For a long time I have wondered what is the Labour Party's labour policy. The answer was given when this proposal for a representative on the right to activity and the duty of activity for social assistance recipients was submitted. The answer is that the Labour Party has no self-employment policy. With this proposal, therefore, the Workers' Party has gone from being intrusive opponents of the duty of activity, as the Right first presented it as an opposition party, to being at least very sceptical when we implemented it in government, to pretending that they have always been in favour, and accusing the Right of not doing enough, and that by delivering a proposal for a representative that is largely made up of actions we are already doing, but which the Workers' Party has previously opposed. The representative, Anette Trettebergstuen, called in due time the obligation of activity for: «a direction we recognize from the 1950s, when it was thought that whip and equalization were the best means of achieving the goal of human development». - Nothing less. The quotation also becomes ironic when we know who directed Norway just in the 1950s. When we discussed the matter in Stortinget last, the Workers' Party wrote in its comments: ‘These members consider that the government’s proposal for the use of the activity obligation in all cases of social security benefits may be contrary to its intention.’ The working party has not, however, gone as far as the representative Karin Andersen of SV, who has called the obligation of activity for ‘meningless forced labour’. But there is little doubt that there is a formidable turnaround we are now witnessing when the Workers' Party delivers a proposal for a representative in which they explicitly write that they ‘all social assistance recipients should be subject to an activity obligation’. I repeat: ‘all social welfare recipients’. It is precisely here that the disagreement has been all the way around, whether activity should be a condition that can be imposed for the award of financial benefits, or whether there should be a general principle that applies unless there are serious reasons against which. Adapting the individual’s needs and strengthening the employability of beneficiaries has always been a prerequisite and is also in the current system. The same applies to the fact that the obligation is also an obligation for municipalities to provide an offer of activity. So what we're really left with here is a representative proposal that could have been replaced by a nine-word press release: we've turned around and now we agree with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e496	Work is more than just work. Job is community, friendship and mastering. Job gives economic freedom. Job provides well-being. That's why we think it's important to be able to relate to work throughout our lives. The proposal under consideration today addresses issues in areas where the government has already launched or announced new measures. Essentially, it follows the intention behind the decision on the obligation of activity, which was proposed by the government and adopted by a large majority with the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party already in autumn 2016. This change resulted in an obligation for the municipality to impose conditions on participation in social assistance activities unless there are compelling reasons against it. The obligation of activity has been a success since its introduction. It has led to much more young people getting involved in education or work. A few weeks ago, I visited a project in the municipality of Sandnes, where they have been working for many years to target young people through what is called Active Competence Building Sandnes and Young Skilled Job Seeker. In cooperation and co-location with the Social Security Centre in Rogaland, local businesses and Nav, work is being done to provide young people with meaningful tasks aimed at working in ordinary working life or at school. The entire 89 pst. of young people who have progressed in work or other activity. In 2017, it meant that out of 272 young people, 220 were helped to move on. It means a lot to society, and it means even more to those who have come into the world of work. On direct questions to young people, through working groups, they have replied that what works is demands and expectations, a kick in the back, something to fill the days with, being seen and heard and having a close follow-up. It sounds like something that can apply to all of us in some periods of life. Of course, it is gratifying that the Workers' Party, which has previously shown great resistance to the right of activity and to the obligation of activity, has now realised that they have made mistakes and are proposing to consider extending this right to all recipients. Nevertheless, I must say that this political spaga is quite strange. So the working party denied the obligation of activity as late as last year and even proposed to reverse the government's funds to the duty of activity by 60 million. kr in its alternative state budget. Right after the big pick, they turned their heels, and now they're too big. It is good to hear that they finally distance themselves from the characteristics that the obligation of activity is ‘compulsory work’, as directed by SV, and that it is also not ‘spice and uniformity’, as the Workers’ Party has previously pointed out. The right will continue to work for municipalities to have an obligation to offer activity. It gives every human being the opportunity to participate in a community where you can experience mastery and become economically independent. It's good for public health, it's good for society, it can be vital for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e509	It's always interesting to hear Right-wing politicians try to clean up the party's history on employment issues. When Heidi Nordby Lunde says from this pulpit that right-hand drive with work-life issues long before the Workers' Party was invented, that's probably right. This may be why the Workers' Party was established – workers needed a political tool to resist the constant attacks on workers' rights and opportunities on the right. Throughout all years, the Right has consistently been on the wrong side in questions about employees’ rights. Then the representative, Nordby Lunde, said that the municipalities that, after the obligation was imposed for people up to 30 years, immediately after the government's proposal started to introduce an obligation, have brilliant results. But the truth is that all the examples to which the government parties refer by municipalities that have succeeded in this area are municipalities that were in progress before the government made its proposal, because the Stoltenberg government had long ago opened up the very possibility of imposing an obligation. There are in particular three things that are challenging with the government's insidiousness in this matter. One is that this implies only an obligation. We're not against the duty. What we are opposed to is that an obligation should be imposed unilaterally without a right to good and meaningful content being included in the arrangement. It is only political avoidance to impose such an obligation on users and municipalities without the government being willing to use the funds to do so. The second is that this applies only to persons under 30 years of age. Why not for all if you think it is so successful? Now the right has stretched so far that they say they are willing to evaluate it up to 35 years. It's getting too passive. We believe it must apply to all, combined with rights. The third is that you just have to wait. The report that has now been submitted for order will not be delivered until October 2020. This means that it will be an incredibly long time before you get any new initiatives in this area from today's government. This is nothing less than political laxity. So the government parties say that you think it's a pleasure to now have almost a consensus on this. It remains to be seen whether the Right, the Advance Party and the Left vote in favour of proposal No. 5 from the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, and so actually makes sure that the obligation applies to everyone, but that it also has to be a right to meaningful activity for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e522	A claim without root in reality doesn't prove to be repeated over and over again. The Labour Party has turned around, right-wing representatives claim. No, we don't. I don't know if the representatives followed up on my first post, but we have at least included in the committee's opinion that the Stortinget has dealt with the issue of the obligation of activity for social welfare recipients on several occasions. The obligation of activity was explicitly regulated when the Stortinget dealt with Ot.prp in 1991. No 29 for 1990-91 on the social services law, etc., promoted by the Third Government of Gro Harlem Brundtland, as I said. This provision was continued during the Stortingen treatment of Ot.prp. No 103 for 2008-2009. The working party has always been for duty of activity, but – as I said – practiced with wit and understanding. We gave those who worked with the individual user quite ample space to assess whether the obligation of activity had anything to do with it or not. Now the Storting has adopted an increased obligation of activity, which we initially voted against because it was not followed by a right to activity. Now, the right-wing representatives here have repeatedly said that they are also in favour of a right of activity, but they have not, for the time being, put forward proposals on this in this Chamber or supported proposals from us in the past, and they will not support our proposal on this today. On direct questions to the Council of State in the reply, the Council of State could not say when or whether the government is going to make a proposal to the Government for an activity right. No, the Labour Party hasn't turned around. We're on what we've been meaning all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e533	I can't help but point out that there seems to be a widespread and willing misunderstanding among the Right Party and the Advance Party when they claim that the Labour Party is against duty. They have had several rhetorical curvatures from this talking chair, which means that I am forced to point out that this is simply wrong. It's the wrong history, and it's also a mistake considering what today's Labour Party thinks and has meant about a duty of activity. You know, historically, there was a clear message from Einar Gerhardsen that a person must do his duty before demanding his right. This is a thought that permeates our entire working life policy. Haakon Lie also made it clear that the duties and individual responsibilities are important for the community to function well, and Gro Harlem Brundtland argued that one must take responsibility for himself and each other. Today we say it this way: We have to make demands, and we have to set them up. And this is where there is an important political division between the Labour Party on one side and the Right and the Progress Party on the other, for the Right and the Progress Party will only make demands. They've shown it repeatedly. That's what this duty of activity without a right of activity also shows so clearly. The right has our individual rights, he has not been right to the community, so that the community is set up, he has not been right to the municipalities, so that they can secure and offer, and that is this imbalance we oppose. And then we just get to bring along a good mood that the Right Party and the Progress Party are forced to think about things when they're going to argue against us in the Labour Party. It just has to mean that they can't argue against what we actually stand for, in a factual and relevant way. Finally, when representatives from the Right go up here and claim that now all are a few, and that the Labour Party has turned around and agrees with the Right and the Advance Party, then the natural consequence of this must be that they vote for what we propose in proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox The battle is at the vote. If they think there's going to be a connection between rights and obligations, it doesn't hold to go up here and say it, then one must also show it in political practice. It has one more possibility. The right will then have the opportunity to turn around and get along with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e544	Activity has long been a condition that can be imposed on beneficiaries of economic benefit, but the whole point of duty of activity is, as I said instead, to introduce a principle that activity should be the case, unless there are serious reasons against it. And then the reason why we started with them under 30, is that we think it's especially important to help young people out of a passive life. It is also where it has the greatest effect. It is not least because it is an economic challenge to enable municipalities to provide an offer of activity to all. So we found at first room to 60 million. kr to do this for them under 30. But that cut the Labour Party's budget for 2017 at the latest. So the meaningful content requested by the representative Grande has not even financed the Workers' Party in today's arrangement, limited upwards to them below 30. And now they're going to impose a right and a duty for everyone, while they haven't even been willing to finance it for them under 30. It must be a powerful ‘mismatch’. So here, then, the Labour Party is asking the Government for an enlargement The Stortinget has rightly wanted in the past, but against the Labour Party's votes, while they have not even financed today's arrangement in their previous budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e549	Once again, we have the discussion of the criticism of what the Workers' Party has said and done in the past. The representative Margret Hagerup was very much on it. I think what's central is what the Right will do in the future, when you have the government power and you have the Council of State. I have not been given any signals as to what a concrete person will do for those people who one here gives the impression that one is going to change the situation of life. For which people is this true? Well, it's usually people who are very far from being able to serve their lives through their own work. There are people who will employ very few employers. There are people who are very demanding to release from economic social assistance. So a lot of effort is needed, and this costs money. Therefore, a collection of power is needed from the municipalities, because it is the responsibility of the municipalities. There's a need for supervisors to bring people with them, because this is quite demanding. Those people this applies, need a leader who goes ahead and provides more than everyone else, in order to get a natural authority and respect in the flock. Those on these programmes must have a payment to compensate for a lack of social assistance. What is also the matter is: Will the Right spend money on action? We have not received any promises about it, no signs of escalation, so this is not the last debate on the matter. I doubt whether the Right will do something special in the future and make a change for these people who are struggling, because if you don't put in people and money, you don't get results. Then it's going to be the most chatty. Then we'll talk about what's happened before, instead of discussing what's needed in the future. These are really the people in society who are most in need of the security of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e558	There has been a strange debate to follow. The lines have been pulled all the way back to Einar Gerhardsen and Gro Harlem Brundtland. I was in fact the rapporteur when the Committee gave its opinion on 6 December 2016, to Prop. 13 L for 2016-2017. Then we'll deal with what we're discussing right now. Those who are curious can go back and see what the respective parties voted for. For what we are now discussing – the duty of activity, in the form in which it is – was then adopted, with the voices of the Advance Party, Right, Left and Christian People's Party. Not enough: the Labour Party strongly opposed this. Several of us had debates against representatives from the Workers' Party, among others. in the News of the Day, Athens, where the Workers' Party strongly argued against this. The working party refers to the old odelstningsproposition, which provides an opening for municipalities to introduce this. The difference was that we introduced this, that it should be the general rule that there should be an activity obligation for recipients of social assistance under 30 years, and we wanted to expand it further. I record that the representative Hadia Tajik is now attacking what we've been given, because we have an individually directed duty. Yes, it was important for us that this should be an individually directed duty – that the actions that each individual was to carry out were individually directed, according to the needs, opportunities and abilities that each individual had. I can also, as you've been told, make several earlier quotations. Under the red-green government, of which the representative Tajik was part, proposals were made by civil parties for the introduction of an activity obligation. The current Minister of Labour, Anniken Huitfeldt, said: ‘This government will not have a legislation requiring everyone to take action from the first day onwards.’ So the red-green government was strongly opposed and also voted against the proposal. When we discussed the matter later, the then labour and social policy spokesperson for the Workers' Party, Anette Trettebergstuen, said: ‘The orientation of the opposition is a direction we recognize from the 1950s, when it was thought that whip and alignment were the best instruments.’ Previous quotations have also been made from other red-green politicians – about forced labour, poor human vision, etc. The fact that the left-hand side of Norwegian policy has fought against this time and again is well documented, but is now that the left-hand side sees that the results we can refer to are so good and that they have now turned around is very pleasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e583	There are many claims that can be commented on – who has voted against things repeatedly. You start almost a hundred years ago, and then I choose to do it myself. After all, I'm from the Right. On the right, the first social security scheme was introduced in Norway eight years before the Workers' Party was given its first representative. Then came the accident insurance for factory workers in 1894, health insurance in 1907, the abolition of child labour, the proposal of universal child welfare for all children, the public health in 1967. In the 1970s, drivers were used to improve access for disabled people to both education and work. Willoch introduced a health insurance card. On the right, the first action plan on poverty in modern times — in 2002, I believe — followed up with the action plan on child poverty in 2014 or 2015. I don't need to make money on Right's social policy or history in social action, but I see that the Workers' Party obviously needs to blackmail it. I believe that the representative, Tajik, is quite right in saying that it is a pity to have to think about things that have not happened, in order to try to promote his own policy, because it stands in the way of a constructive debate. But it is a celebration day for the Stortinget – and for any parliament – if politicians from all sides of the political spectrum are arguing about who should have the credit for contributing to the welfare state that we have had in many ways in common. I agree that we should actually use this opportunity to make each other better – change to preserve the welfare state that we have built together and stand behind – even though we have not always agreed on everything. As regards proposal No: 5 – as the representative Lundtigen and several have referred to as the main proposal, and then it is only to support it – it is about promoting a separate case with an assessment of how a right and obligation to activity can be designed for all beneficiaries of economic social assistance. But again, I'm from the Right, and we think it's important to do it in a knowledge-based and thorough way. When we have commissioned the ISF to evaluate the obligation of activity, both what makes it work, what activities are most effective, and whether it has unintended consequences, I think it is useful to wait for that report to come, so that when the government chooses to submit a notification and proposals to implement the full right of activity and the obligation of activity, it is done in a knowledge-based way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e597	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e602	Just a comment on the post from the representative of Wiborg. He said in his post that on December 6, 2016, Storting dealt with what we are discussing now. No, the Storting didn't. Right, Left, Advance Party, Christian People's Party voted in favour, the Workers' Party voted against, says Wiborg. The working party has always been strongly opposed to a general obligation of activity which is not accompanied at the same time by a right to meaningful activity. So the general obligation of activity has decided the Storing against our votes. The government has not yet managed to implement it for others other than those under 30 years, but we expect the rest to come, as the Stortinge has adopted it, and then it is important for the Workers' Party that the duty of the Stortinge against our votes is also followed by a right. That's the right we're dealing with today, and the majority is going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e607	It's probably the story that's going to be the most important part of today's debate. My story doesn't go that far back. My horizon extends almost until the obligation of activity was introduced, from 1 January 2017. Then I worked with inclusion and recruitment and thought that this was an incredibly good proposal, which could actually lead to more people coming out into the workplace. When Lundtigen cuts everyone over one came here and says that these are people who have great challenges in getting out of work, I can't believe he's been out talking to these people, talking to Nav, who's working with them, and talking to the young person who's trying to get out of work. Many of these are people who have actually been unhappy, they may have been sitting in their room playing computer games, they've dropped out of school, they haven't figured out what they're going to be. When Time Municipality started this after the obligation was introduced in January 2017, and after eight weeks, 21 out of 25 are out of work or activity, one cannot say that these are people with major challenges. These are people who have not been given the opportunity before, with whom you have not spoken, who have not been contacted. It has one done with the introduction of this obligation. I think we should keep doing that. But one should avoid cutting all these over one comb and saying that there are people with great challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e614	The representative, Nordby Lunde, says that the reason why the Right and Advance Party cannot vote in favour of proposal No. 5, is that we should now have an evaluation and a review, that it is only when the knowledge is on the table, it may be relevant to follow it up. I would like to remind you that it does not appear in proposal No. 5 that saga may come tomorrow. Nor does it say that she has to come to the fall. It says only that the Storting asks the government to bring a case up its own. That means that as long as you do it within this four-year period, that's good enough. If that's the problem, you can acquire knowledge and bring it up afterwards. In any case, it means that whether that is what the counter-representation is, a vote in favour of proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. I think that this debate, among other things: shows, is that we all have the best opportunity to talk about our own policies. At least I invite Right to do more of that. What they have said about the Workers' Party in this matter is largely wrong. We have always been concerned with the balance between duties and courts, we have expectations of both individuals and communities. It is precisely the balance between the right of establishment and the obligation of activity. We're still inviting you to cooperate. We are still inviting the Right Party and the Advance Party to turn this case around.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e621	The representative Kristian Toning Riise has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e626	Several have asked in their posts what the Right will now do, what the government parties will now do. I would like to say that we have received a very detailed letter from the Council of State as a point-by-point explanation of what we are doing, and what we will do further. It is now the case that we do not need a representative proposal from the Workers' Party on measures that we are essentially already in the process of implementing our policies – because we are actually in the process of doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e631	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e647	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e656	Working life must be safe, flexible and family-friendly for employees. Useric actors and labour-life crime undermine Norwegian business and Norwegian workplaces, and those who systematically run contrary to laws and regulations are destroying their entire working life. The consequences are serious for the individual workers concerned, for the businesses and industries and for society as a whole. We agree to have a good and serious working life in Norway. The rules of the labour market must then be observed and labour crime prevented and combated. In January 2015, the Government presented a strategy against labour crime, to combat crime and promote serious and good working conditions through broad cooperation between authorities and social partners on prevention, knowledge sharing and enforcement. In its annual report for 2017, the Labour Inspectorate wrote: ‘There is every reason to believe that it is more difficult to operate as a criminal in the labour market today than before the government strategy was launched. The risk of detection has increased, common knowledge building facilitates the detection of key actors, and together the control modes have a larger toolbox to meet the criminals with.’ The government has stepped up the fight against labour crime in the last four years. Seven centres have been set up to combat crime at work, which is already producing good results. In 2017, a total of 3,400 enterprises were checked, and the agencies themselves estimate that 56 operators were put out of business and that 425 operators were reduced as a result. An important measure in the strategy against crime at work is the establishment of cooperation between the police, the tax administration, the labour and welfare services and the Labour Inspectorate. These agencies draw up joint plans for action against crime at work and cooperate at all levels. In February this year, the etates signed a new plan against labour crime for 2017–2019. The motivation for this cooperation is to maximise the use of resources and penalties. A system of own business contacts is also in place in all police districts to contribute to the prevention of occupational crime and crime against business and, inter alia, to contact with them. the parties to the business community. Better sharing of information between departments is an important step in the strategy against crime at work. In 2017, Ecocrim revised a guide that helps to draw more attention to the opportunities they have to share information about confidentiality. Further work is being carried out on proposals for amendments to specific legislation, with the aim of bringing about changes in the labour and welfare legislation of the State to facilitate the increased sharing of information to the departments participating in a-crime cooperation. This will facilitate more effective and targeted cooperation between the agencies. The fight against crime at work is being taken seriously by the police and prosecution authorities. The government has given clear signals that the fight against crime at work should be given priority, and efforts will also be strengthened through the work of the police reform, including by: major scientific environments in intelligence, investigation and prevention. The criminality of work may be cross-border. Therefore, the government has taken initiatives to strengthen cooperation between supervisory authorities at European level. The Labour Inspectorate has inter alia: cooperation with equivalent supervision in a number of countries, including Lithuania, Estonia, Romania, Bulgaria and Poland. The national inter-territorial analysis and intelligence centre was established in 2016 and added to Ecocrime. The police, tax authorities, customs authorities, Nav and the Labour Inspectorate participate in the cooperation, which will ensure the implementation of a more targeted, effective, effective and effective fight against crime. The analysis centre develops national threats and risk assessments and collects intelligence, which is an important basis for the follow-up of etates. In 2017, a new situation description of work crime was created in Norway. This points to the continuous development of methods by criminal actors as they discover new opportunities for profit. The report also points to a more targeted, organised and cross-disciplinary approach to labour-related crime. The benefits of cross-border cooperation are particularly linked to co-location and to the knowledge gained by the staff of the various levels of detection and sanctioning. More cooperation is needed to combat crime and unprofessional employment, and if we are to succeed, we are dependent on mobilising all good forces. Employment crime is therefore an ever-increasing issue between the social partners through the Contact Committee and the tripartite sectoral programmes are an important cooperation platform. Low unemployment, a labour market that is safe and serious and where more is included, is important for Norway. When the authorities cooperate with the social partners, we can do that. We're going to continue the fight for serious work. It is important to achieve the objective of a sustainable welfare society – because everyone deserves to have a decent working relationship, in a serious and safe working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e685	Crime in the labour market is spreading. It's increasing in extent. It's getting rougher. And it becomes more complex. This affects workers, who are more insecure in their daily lives, with more temporaryity, more uncertainty, more social ties and the risk of being exposed to criminal acts. And it affects serious businesses, which are increasingly being outrun by unprofessional businesses. It is one of the greatest societal challenges of our time, both through the direct consequences of crime, and through the failing incomes of the community. This is why there is every possible reason for cross-political cooperation to solve the problems in the labour market and to find more effective tools against the crime of working life. It should have been at the top of a government's agenda to get something done about these problems. Unfortunately, neither today's government invites more cooperation across party boundaries, nor does it take the responsibility of guarding against these challenges. That is why the Labour Party has made a number of proposals following the accession of the Right-Fremskritsparte government, at the latest in the 2018 budget, where we launched several actions and increased resources in the fight against crime in the labour market. That is why we have made a number of proposals to increase the level of organisation of work, proposals for a temporary ban on renting, the removal of the extension of access to temporary employment, which the current government introduced, opportunities to strengthen the system of approval for cleaning, strengthening the public service system, etc. We are always supported by today's majority. With a possible exception for what we can do in the case of renting, today's government is helping to reinforce the problems we have in our working life. Because if we're really going to get to grips with the problems of working life crime, we need to have an organized working life, with strong partners working together. Then you have to have organized workers. You may have strong trustees. You have to have good cooperation with the parties. It is perhaps the most accurate and effective tool we can have for a good working life. The government has been silent and has made sure that the use of rentals breaks down. They have introduced more temporaryity, and they make it more expensive to be a member of a trade union — which makes problems proliferate. In this case, we are promoting proposals for measures that will both strengthen the level of organisation and provide increased resources for the fight against crime at work, which is another major challenge. More resources are needed in the lines to follow up the issues reported by the work-life crime centres. Increased resources are needed to strengthen the work of each centre and not least cooperation between centres. And more resources are needed to get more centres, because many counties in Norway today are not covered by an a-krim centre. We have proposals that will mean that we will have to deal with the problems of professional secrecy, and proposals that will increase the scope for seizures, to really go after what will hit the criminal actors hard: the values that they are able to generate from crime. The parties to the government are voting down, even today, all these proposals. Nor does the government launch any new measures in the 2018 budget, and they weaken the level of organisation of work. Today's government is failing in the work that should have been done against the crime of working life, and they are strengthening the problems of working life. With that, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e704	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e709	I think – at least with the background of previous articles – it is important to nuance the situation somewhat. Norwegian working life is mainly well-functioning and good. Nine out of ten employees are well at work. There is a good relationship between the employer and the employee. Of course, it is important to address the challenges you face, but once again I do not think we should try to produce Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs as if everything is bad. We have two motions for a resolution before us today. They mention an important issue, which I think we all agree with. This is also why the fight against crime at work is – and has been – a priority area. Crime at work is harmful to society. Society misses significant tax revenue. The criminality of working life is harmful to the individual employed and who is not granted his or her rights. In particular, working life crime is harmful to the large majority of businesses, who operate legally and correctly, by being out of competition, and by jeopardising their serious, safe and good jobs. There was some reason why the government, among others. cooperated closely with the social partners and put forward a strategy against labour crime in January 2015. It has been revised in due course, including: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the A strategy has therefore been put in place, involving close cooperation between the parties. This government has also strengthened the Labour Inspectorate, which means that there are more controls than before. Only last year there were 3,400 checks. 54 actors are now unable to continue. 425 actors, who were unprofessional, have been reduced to their ability to act. We have set up seven centres to combat the crime of working life. I think some of the key lies there, because in public maybe we have had too much watertight bulkheads between public authorities, that something that one actor reveals, does not necessarily mean that that information is passed on to other actors. In this way, some actors have been able to continue working life crime without stopping it. We've also increased the penalty level. And these are just some of the many measures. The representative of Arild Grande had a long tiger – I understand it has not been long since May 1st – with, among other things. the firm claim that the trade union deduction has not been increased but continued at the previous level and that this is the reason for many of the challenges. Then I remember that in fact.no has checked that claim and found that it does not hold up. Under the red-green government, the trade union deduction increased, but the level of organisation did not increase. In any case, the Progress Party believes that it is a good thing for many to be organized, but we also need to respect that someone does not want to be organized – for different reasons. And we have to have a law and a framework and a system that takes care of all employees, whether they choose to be organised or not, because there is work crime both in high-level organisations and in low-level workplaces. The fight against crime at work is a priority. We have put in place many measures, we want to strengthen those measures, and we also see that we are starting to get results from the work that has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e732	I would like to thank the Labour Party and SV for putting the theme on the agenda. The reason for this is that there has become more labour-life crime, and it is rooted in some of the foundations of society, namely fair competition and a safe working life. Security of income is a prerequisite for a good family life, and I hope that labour policy will gradually have an even greater place in the social debate, because it is essential that it is in place. When we talk about working life crime, we talk about something that's illegal, and I want to stress it, it's illegal, and it's in my opinion the definition of something that's criminal. And when it's criminal, it has consequences for the employer in unfair competition, for the employee in the case of insecurity, and for society in that one has a loss of income, and that one has more conflicts in society. There are many measures that need to be put in place, there are many measures that are necessary to achieve a healthy culture, but the most important thing in my opinion is the law, to have a clear law that regulates this. For us in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, the law on working conditions is the most central, and clarifying the law, clarifying the reactions that occur when a law is broken is very important. There has always been labour-related crime, but now it has become worse, and in my opinion it has become worse since 2000, when we got the change in the Working Environment Act as a result of the Blaalid committee, which was an adaptation to the EEA Agreement. It has also become more demanding since the enlargement of the EU in 2004. This made it more difficult to ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions for those working in Norway. There has also been a deterioration in the level of free movement of workers. It is therefore difficult to stop social dumping, to stop the crime of working life at the border. There must therefore be a change at this crucial point, so that those taking up employment in Norway are guaranteed permanent work and housing before starting work, in order to have a better overview of what is at the heart of their life. I want to challenge the Council of State on some points. The first concerns identity cards that display real-time information for the people involved — who they are, where they work, who they work for, and what work history they have. Real-time information identification cards are needed, which need to be presented, so that the control authorities can keep track of the facts regarding employment. Furthermore, an exchange of information between state agencies is needed. The most important agencies are the Labour Inspectorate, the Nav, the tax administration, the police and the municipal authorities, among others. combustibles/tax collectors’ offices and the design and building kit. Here, there are demanding issues of professional secrecy, but they need to be resolved so that these bodies can cooperate. Furthermore, more stringent responses to, with fees and penalties, so that those who are on this gallery know that there is a response here that really does not go far enough today. The fourth and last point is unannounced supervision, so there is a risk of being taken. We can't just have reported supervision. The world of reality is different. Finally, I would also like to stress the need for more trade unions, both on the employer's side and on the employee's side. The Norwegian model requires a high degree of organisation, and we know that, based on historical experience, it also provides the best productivity development, because you have confidence in the world of work. The centre game votes for, as you can see from your configuration. When we vote against proposal No. 11 and proposal No. 12, which is about introducing this within all the police districts, and working with universities and colleges, does not mean that we are opponents of it. It may be appropriate, perhaps, but we will give priority to other measures first. That's why we vote the way we do it. I'm addressing proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e751	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e756	Labour crime is a major problem that we must take extremely seriously. This year, we've seen that the extent of work-life crime may be more widespread than we thought before. In January, the EL and IT Association revealed that 90 pst. by the electricians at the construction site of Veigeck on Storo were illegally hired. The employees had no collective agreement. The following day, the employer signed a ‘servite agreement’ and called it a tariff. At the same time, the Labour Inspectorate is on the outside of the fence and has no authority to intervene. They then pointed out that each employee who had been hired illegally by a staff agency had to file a case in his own name. In the past, the SV has called for collective redress as a necessity to ensure the legal certainty and rights of employees. In February, the Construction Company’s first-aid facility in Trondheim told them that employers could make millions of dollars without risk of not giving their statutory occupational pension to their employees. Since 2006, all employers have been required to have compulsory occupational pensions for their employees. Nevertheless, no authority is currently supervising that the workers are actually receiving the pension they are entitled to. The Utopatrol recently revealed a timber company with 14 employees who have avoided OTP since 2012. For six years, this employer has been unsupervised, unsupervised, and the unsecured employees. That is why the SV has put forward proposals. In March, the construction industry went to a total political strike in front of the Stortinget to ban the manning industry, because it was seen that the agencies undermined permanent jobs, but also because some contributed to the crime of labour in the form of black work, money laundering and illegal employment contracts. Therefore, SV, in addition to the proposal for a ban on the manning industry, promoted ten specific points for improving the legislation and strengthening the a-krim centres. In April, Dagbladet wrote about how Norwegian privacy and the secrecy of bankruptcies contribute to some being able to exploit the system and go bankrupt again and again to avoid liabilities. Knut Ro, head of the Bankruptcy Council, then said that Norway had ‘went too far in the law to protect bankrupts’. When the laws function in such a way that they protect the criminals, it goes without saying that it is difficult to clean up in an unprofessional working life. Speculation in bankruptcy is just as criminality of work as it is withholding pension deposits. When, through legal conflict, the striking slaughterhouse workers were able to meet the requirement for a collective agreement at the workplace, no one saw that the company would fail only a few months later to avoid paying overtime allowances and fair pay. Only a few days after the closure, there is a new company that has taken over the operation, but only those who are not organized to keep the job. Now, in May, we have the choice whether we should continue to let criminal actors in the labour market here freely, or whether we should take responsibility. Our legislation has not changed in line with changes in working life. We have set up a-krim centres, but still prevent the obligation of confidentiality from allowing colleagues to talk together about the issues they are investigating. These are only the criminals who serve. We have to take the criminal actors for what they are, and take the necessary action. Often speaking of a breach of the labour law, it is easy to imagine small jobs and inexperienced employers who do not know what obligations they have as employers or what rights they have. But the revelations that have come through trade unions and the media show us another picture. It is not just unprofessional actors, but well-organised, criminal, bloody serious actors and actors who kill the trusted elected, which means that the Utopatrols have to go with a violent alarm and think about the safety of their family. The work-life crime centers are both our first line defense and our most important weapon to combat these types of criminals. That's why it's important that we, as politicians, give them the resources and tools they need. When a-crime centres are lacking legal barriers or sanctions, only the criminals win, and when the criminals win, law-abiding employers, employees and society as a whole are losing. Now we need stronger lye, extended authority and more controls. Police must be able to intervene in the jurisdiction of other bodies in order to stop crime, the tax system must be able to directly seize dividends from criminal offences, and the a-crime centres must have more extensive facilities to stop or stop illegal activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e779	The fight against black work and labour crime must always be a high priority, and we must always be open to improvements and reinforcements in order to close. This is how the Left initiative of the proposers in this matter wishes to be welcomed, although I have to admit that I am a little behind the broad side of the representative Grande on behalf of the Labour Party chose to use the speaking time to say so. Me and Left believe that cross-politics are on the verge of obsessing that it is imperative to curb cynical cellars that are actively searching for dirt and openings for their own profit. The Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party come up with a number of proposals to make the fight against the crime of working life ‘simplifying and more effective’, but unfortunately it is not easy. The fact that we still have work-life crime in Norway is not a result of not seeing the simple solutions, but because the problem itself is compounded. For example, we know that it can be difficult to find the balance between preventing one type of crime without overstepping the serious business we rely on and want, just to secure safe and good Norwegian jobs. The government has long had work-life crime high on the agenda, which in my view the Council of State is very well responding to in its letter to the Committee. With the Jeleia platform, you will continue that effort with increased strength. The government will ‘facilitate an organised working life and a well-functioning tripartite cooperation’ — fortunately. We are out of chance in the fight against the black work if we cannot work and find solutions with the social partners and through international forums, among other things. the spokesperson, Mr Hagerup, did very well for him. In the future, the blue-green government will strengthen international cooperation. We don't solve a problem here alone when it's as internationally pre-defined as working life crime. We can show way and be drivers – and we do, and that's us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e791	The fight against labour-life crime is a matter of priority for the Christian People's Party. In recent years, we have shown for several of the budget deficits at Stortinget that we have had a positive impact on the establishment of several a-krim centres, where police, Nav, Labour Inspectorate and tax authorities work closely together. This gives good results. The authorities themselves say that 56 operators were unable to continue their business, and that 425 operators were given reduced capacity as a result of the work being done here. Over the last few years, the Labour Inspectorate has been strengthened both by more resources and by the possibility of fines on enterprises that do not ensure that employees have HMS cards, increased the number of outdated controls and increased coordination between the Labour Inspectorate, the police, the tax administration, the Nav and other relevant authorities. Several service centres have been created to ensure that foreign workers receive good information about their rights and obligations. This work should be strengthened and made more systematic. Etats have jointly developed a governance model for the labour-criminal centres, which form the basis for the resource input of the respective etats. The development of common objectives and management parameters to be included in the target and performance management of the individual entity will be pursued. The Labour Inspectorate, the State of Labour and Welfare, the police and the tax administration have developed an action plan for the fight against the crime of working life. A number of other public authorities also participated in operational cooperation, including: the customs office and the municipal tax collectors. The state road service has created a separate unit against labour-life crime. The Christian People's Party sees a strengthened sharing of information between the etats as a central measure in the strategy against crime at work and is pleased with the work being followed through several processes. In 2017, Ecocrim revised a guide developed in cooperation with the ETAs. The guide helps to make staff members more aware of the possibilities they have to share mandatory information between themselves. Proposals for amendments to the special legislation for establishments which have such designations are being worked on. It should also be possible to comply with the legislation of the Labour and Welfare Act, so as to facilitate the sharing of information between the Etate and the other Etats participating in A-Crime Cooperation. This change will make it easier for the controls to work to take those who hurt the serious working life. The Ministry of Finance is now hearing a proposal for law houses, such as: shall facilitate the sharing of information with the other ETAs between the tax and customs duties. In addition, work has been started between the departments concerned to identify any need for additional measures to ensure the necessary information-sharing possibilities. In the light of all the work that is now going on, and the work that is expected to come back to the Greatness, where processes are now in the process of strengthening this work, we in the Christian People's Party will wait for the work that the government is now doing in these areas. Therefore, we will not support any of the proposals in the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e804	Employment crime is a major challenge in parts of the world of work. The government is therefore giving high priority to the fight against crime at work. The aim is to make it as difficult as possible for the criminal actors to use employment as arenas for their illegal activities. To achieve this, a broad approach is needed: Employees, employers and authorities must stand together and use the weight and force that the tripartite cooperation provides. Police and control systems must combat the crime of working life as effectively and as vigorously as possible. Buyers and consumers must contribute to the exclusion of criminals from the markets. We must be able to pursue the criminal actors across borders through cooperation with other countries. Most of the proposals under consideration today relate to how we can achieve effective monitoring and follow-up. The establishment of operational cooperation is a central measure of the government’s strategy against crime at work. These efforts include a wide range of authorities and are coordinated by the police, the Labour Inspectorate, the Nav and the tax administration. A major effort is being made in the seven work-life crime centres established. In addition, the agencies have operational cooperation against labour-related crime in several other parts of the country. It is also important to bear in mind the significant use of resources in the follow-up to the ‘in-line’ issues of each department. I assume it's the agencies themselves who have the best knowledge of how the criminal actors in working life operate. Thus, it is also those who are best able to assess how efforts are to be made to achieve results. Operational cooperation allows the agencies to use their overall sanctioning options so that they can put the criminal actors out of play or at least significantly reduce their capacity. The national cross-border analysis and intelligence centre has compiled an overview of the overall sanctioning possibilities of the agencies. On the basis of this report, the Advocate-General shall, in cooperation with Ecokrim and the departments, examine the use and potential of these penalties, including the borderline between the use of administrative sanctions and the imposition of charges/punitive measures. It is important that the resources of the police and prosecution authorities can be targeted at the serious issues and that administrative responses to other offences can be used. I do not think it is appropriate to consider individual proposals, detached from the comprehensive and professionally considered review of sanctions that are now in progress. Strengthening the sharing of information between departments is a central measure in the strategy against crime at work. This concerns, among other things: the possibility of sharing sensitive information protected by professional secrecy rules. Therefore, the theme requires careful evaluation. The government is now following up on several processes. I aim to bring about changes in labour and welfare legislation so that Nav can share information with the other agencies involved in the cooperation against labour-life crime. The Ministry of Finance has recently sent a proposal for legal remedies such as: gives the tax office and customs office greater access to sharing information with the other departments. In addition, work has been started between the departments concerned to identify the need for further action. The Swedish law, to which reference is made, may be a possible model to provide more general opportunities for sharing information between agencies, but it is necessary to consider other options as well. It is important that the solutions chosen are as effective as possible, while respecting privacy considerations. This work will have a high priority in the future. The development of the crime scene in the labour market makes detection and clarification challenging. Activities attempt to hide criminal activities more than in the past behind a law-abiding façade, and criminal actors move the activities to new businesses when the authorities get too close. Therefore, the broad approach underpinning the government’s strategy against crime at work is crucial. I am pleased that this effort also has broad support in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e836	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e841	On questions from the undersigned, the Council of State answers that the states of Finnmark, Troms, More and Romsdal, Sogn and Fjordane, Østfold, Hedmark and Uppland are not currently covered by a-krim centres. At the same time, both the Council of State and representatives of the right parties have clearly signaled that there will be no increased resources to establish more centres or to cover the whole country. What is the professional justification that these states should not be covered by an a-krim centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e846	It is not the case that work is not being done against the crime of working life in these counties, although there are no a-crime centres there. In addition to the seven a-krim centres established around the country, operational cooperation between the departments has been established in several other locations, although it is not co-located in its own centres. I'm not going to say that there are more centres in the future, but what the agencies report back is that the centres are important and that operational cooperation is important. What is also important with the centres is that they have developed much better cooperation methods and cooperation models, which can also be used elsewhere, where centres are not established. What the agencies report back is that the centres are important, that cooperation is important, but that it is also important to have the necessary resources ‘in-line’. The resources may be economic, but there are assets, competences and other important ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e851	One of the things we see criminal actors do is they're constantly looking for the industries and places where it's easiest to get away with their criminal activity. Therefore, it is important to have a comprehensive job and not least that the whole country is covered. One of the states that is not covered by an a-krim centre today is Eastfold, one of the states that may have the largest transit traffic, and which is closest to some of the challenges we see related to international crime. So here the government has no strategies. Isn't the government worried that the very places that aren't covered by an a-crime centre are going to be the places where the criminals really turn in the direction of?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e856	I hope the representative of Grande does not believe that the anti-crime strategy applies only to the states that are covered by a-crime centres. It's not. Strategies, measures, instruments, institutions and competences apply to the whole country and to all sectors where labour-life crime is seen. When you see where the surveillance is done, and who is out of play, there are actors all over the country, regardless of whether there is an a-krim centre in the area or not. The A-crime centres are an important spearhead in the work. Perhaps one of the most important things is the development of methods that are developed there, which also benefits the floors and work in general. We now see that the efforts we are making to combat the crime of working life are producing good results. We see that the agencies themselves say that without this strategy it would be harder. We're achieving better results now than before. Several are out of play, and others have limited their activity significantly as a result of that effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e861	The A-crime centres are an important tip in that work, and that is precisely why we propose that the whole country be covered by an a-crime centre – not that everyone should necessarily have one, but that the whole country should be covered by a centre. That's what the government parties are voting for today. Then we also want to strengthen the work of each a-krim centre and the cooperation between the a-krim centres by doing something about the taushets, by doing something about the homes to make seizures, taking action. Why this reluctance from the government parties to contribute to something that does not cost the huge resources, and that anyone working in this field believes could significantly strengthen this work? Why can't the government parties go to vote for it, when we know that it will work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e870	It's almost so I'm starting to think that the representative Grande has not read my two letters of reply about those proposals. There I point out that several departments have consulted several proposals to strengthen cooperation, including: by sharing information. Several of the proposals are now being followed up in the department, and we will come to Stortinget with the necessary legislative changes. When we're talking about information sharing, information flows between the agencies, it's also important, despite all the fact that we're careful that person-sensitive information doesn't flow between the walls without control. It's important that we take care of it. We're going to make sure that there's a better sharing of information between the agencies, but we can't throw all the privacy on the boat. We have to make some good judgements. But we have several departments, and there are several proposals out at the hearing. We are following it up, and we do not need – with respect to notifying – to adopt the proposal here today in order to implement the work that has been started.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e877	I think that improving employment opportunities for government employees is important, but getting a simpler system to combat crime is the most important thing. What I mean by that is real-time information – to control the situation at the workplace of those who work there, that is, to have self-control with the people who work there, and to combine it with unannounced supervision. Then there is a good basis. My question goes to what I said in my post on identity cards, that is, that an identity card needs to be developed as quickly as possible that has real-time information about who you are, where you work, who you work for, and the work history – so that those who control, and those who work there, can get a full overview at any time of who is employed at the workplace. What does the Council of State say to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e884	HMS cards in the workplace have been introduced by this government, and we have also expanded the cards to get real-time information, both in terms of the type of information on the card and who can access the card. So I'm a little bit unsure about what the representative Lundtigen refers to, because today there's an HMS card with information, and it's also in real time. It's not everyone who gets access to it, it's right, but in 2016 we considerably expanded the possibility of who can get the information, what kind of information is there, and that the information is in real time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e890	Number I've seen since 2015, showed that only that year did the criminal actors hide 28 billion. kr, which are tax receipts that are lost and that could have gone for very many other good purposes. I showed in my post the marking that was out here, which I expect the Council of State has freshened in memory, from the trade movement and especially trusted in the construction industry. They are very concerned about the recruitment agencies and the staffing industry, and about what it does with black work, with money laundering and with illegal employment contracts. There have been many debates in this Chamber on the manpower industry, but my question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State follow up the manpower industry sufficiently to reduce the crime of labour in this sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e895	After all, the government has already made a proposition for the Storting in order to limit the possibility of hiring into the labour market. There are several proposals we are promoting there. One is – and it is in line with the hearing opinion we sent out last summer – to define regular employment in the law, to make it difficult with these so-called zero-hour contracts. We also proposed to increase access to the contract in the construction sector, to which the representative refers in particular, precisely to limit the level of rentals in that part of the economy, where we see that the volume has been particularly high. In my opinion, this proposal is a proposal that balances in a good way the different considerations between the employer and the employee, and which greatly limits much of what I believe has also been the concern of the Stortinge, namely rentals in construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e900	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e907	We have proposed that the government should ensure that the police, the Labour Inspectorate, the tax administration and Nav carry out several unannounced inspections in sectors that are particularly vulnerable to occupational crime. This proposal will not support the Government parties. When we propose that the government return to the Stortinget with proposals that establishments such as the tax office, the Chemners' Office, the Labour Inspectorate, the Nav, the Planning and Building Act and any other agencies have more extensive homes, so that they can shut down or stop the illegal operation of businesses, it is about us being genuinely concerned about the working life that is developing in our society. In the internal documents of the Class Battle newspaper, it states that ‘Oslo police are not allowed to report financial crimes detected during inspections in a cross-border cooperation between the police, the Nav, the tax administration, the customs authorities and the Labour Inspectorate’. Trustees in the customs department say that cross-national actions and projects are deprioritised due to lack of resources, and the trustees in the police tell similar stories. We are concerned that the serious and organised working life will be cut short in the meeting of black work, social dumping and labour crime. In short: in Norway, unprofessional work has been at peace for too long. That's what central trust leaders in the trade union movement are telling us. This gives cause for concern. Our social contract and the Norwegian model are precisely about an organised and well-functioning working life in which we provide the community according to our ability. It won't pay to break the law. Nevertheless, we see a working and business life in which the unprofessional actors are allowed to operate in peace, and where the actors who are going to meet it on behalf of the community report a lack of resources. This also affects those who operate seriously and within the framework of the law. And when proposals are made in the Storting on measures that can strengthen work, the government parties will not support it. This makes me genuinely concerned about the working life we are about to leave to our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e918	It's true, as Terje Breivik says, that this work is so demanding, cross-border and challenging that it's a difficult topic we're talking about. That is why cleaning up the labour market should have been at the top of the agenda for the Minister of Labour, and that is why the Minister of Labour and Government parties should have taken the initiative to bring together the Stortinge on some measures. That is why it is so disappointing that the government parties then show the degree of inaction in this respect, both in the budget, as they themselves admit that they do not promote a single new measure against labour crime in, and here and now, where they consistently vote down all our proposals in this matter. I am disappointed that the Christian People's Party is involved in ensuring a majority of the government's views on this. Nor is it the case that here you can only point to one concrete measure, and then everything will be resolved. But we mention something that all the actors who work in the field are concerned about when we talk to them, and that they point to really would have made way in the way of the work that is going on today, namely that we need to do something about the confidentiality code, which today prevents good cooperation. Here, the Council of State refers to a small plot that is being held in the fields of various agencies, but the great grip, namely to be able to introduce the Swedish law, which simply removes the obligation of confidentiality between the actors, is something that these actors themselves ask for and that we know will be able to work effectively. Then you don't have to keep detail here and there. The second is to impose effective sanctions and penalties, so that charges can be imposed on the spot and confiscated, and thus have a much more effective response to the crime of working life. When the government itself boasts of the efforts of the a-krim centers, I don't understand why you have such a reluctance to ensure that the whole country is covered. This is due only to the government's prioritizing of tax cuts rather than this work. It's a clear political priority, and it's okay to be honest. We could actually get something in the Storting today that didn't necessarily need the big resources, but that could have been very effective tools against working life crime. I'm afraid we won't. That's what I think is sad, but the Workers' Party is going to fight further, along with the opposition parties, to strengthen the work against the crime of working life. Finally, I would like to signal that the Labour Party will support proposal No. 13 from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e931	It strikes me, both in this debate and in the previous one, that there really is a broad consensus about quite a lot of what you try and want to achieve, but nevertheless you choose to paint with a fairly wide black paint brush when you want to describe both the conditions we are out to do something with, and how we are out to do it. It is not to fail anyone when seven a-krim centres have been set up since 2013, when the government of Solberg took over. It is not a failure that more than 3,400 businesses were controlled in 2017. It is not a betrayal when the agencies themselves estimate that 56 operators were put out of business and that 425 operators were reduced in capacity. When you use the word «svik» about this, I wonder where the Norwegian debate is going. It is a real desire to expand and strengthen the work-life crime centres that have been set up, and I understand that more people want to see the good results of the seven that have been established under this government. But what we hear from the same actors is that these centres don't necessarily just want more resources, but they also need time to sit down and get an overview of how they cooperate, and develop the methodology to be used across the country. As the Council of State says, that a region does not have a labour-life crime centre and is co-located does not mean that it is not working against work-life crime in those areas. One of the things we heard was one of the most important ‘details’, to which the Workers’ Party referred, was a new governance model that came into force from 1 January. This was taken up by the a-crime centre in Rogaland when the committee was visiting there last week, and the representative Arild Grande was not present there. There is only one example of one of the ‘small pick’ introduced by this government. Then there is the level of precision: the representative Arild Grande believed that this government has introduced more temporaryity. No, this government has made sure to lower the threshold into working life, so that you have the opportunity to take a temporary job, which hopefully is going to go over to a permanent job, which gives a positive spiral into working life. We see that this has not led to increased use of temporaryity. The representative Arild Grande says that this government has made it more expensive to be a member of a trade union. No, the government has not increased its membership quota, but the trade-union deduction, known to all trade unions, has remained under this government. When LO-Aktuelt wrote about 25 proposals to increase the degree of organisation, none of the 25 proposals addressed, for example. to increase the union quota, but one of the proposals, which I recommend to the trade unions to implement, is to ask their colleagues if they want to join. If you don't even want to ask that question, there is little government can do to increase the level of organisation, which we all want to increase, but which you have to do a little extra effort to get to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e944	I finished my post instead of saying that I'm worried about the working life we're about to leave to our children. For me, a lot of this is about it. For all things, there is a lot of good work done, both in the Labour Inspectorate, Nav, the tax department, the police and the customs department, but that is not what the debate is about. The debate here is about the fact that more should have been done. I sincerely believe that the government should have had a much more offensive investment. Again, this is about what work life and what society we want to leave to our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e949	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e965	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e974	Let me begin by thanking the Cooperation Committee. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have contributed to the Committee. The Committee agrees with the proposers that there is a long tradition in Norway for a responsible gambling policy. The model of exclusive rights is strong in Norway, and an overall committee is concerned that it is important to pursue a policy based on social responsibility and the consideration of gambling addicts, while emphasising the need for change as a result of technological developments. In the Minister of Culture's letter to the Committee, she sets out several processes in place by the Department. The Ministry of Culture has started work on a joint legislative proposal for the entire field of gambling, including: by asking the Lottery Authority to investigate DNS alerts. They consider a bill that will make the payment order more effective, they will evaluate the organisation and practice of Norsk Tipping and Norsk Rikstototo and look at sanctions to be able to respond to people and companies that are directly or indirectly responsible for marketing lottery and gambling without authorisation. One of the eight points of the draft representative refers to the State pension fund abroad. The Committee took note of the answer given by the Minister of Finance, who wrote to the Committee that withdrawing gambling companies from the State pension fund abroad violates the Fund's objective and that any exclusions from the company should be based on the established ethical criteria. On behalf of all the parties in the Committee, I address a loose proposal which reads: ‘The government asks the government to propose the introduction of requirements for registered games related to all digital gambling, but to allow for exceptions for some digital games such as: ‘Pantelotteriet’». On the right-hand side, we have several concerns related to several of the proposals in the vote. The majority will today adopt more measures that do not contribute to much other than false security and extra bureaucracy for many. The government is clearly convinced that it will preserve the exclusive model of the Jeløya platform. The main reason for this is social responsibility and the consideration of gambling addiction. In addition, we know that the model ensures good income for culture, sport and humanitarian work. The Minister of Culture is, as I was concerned about earlier, in a number of thorough processes. In spite of this, the opposition finds reason to propose in many ways either to open already open doors, creating a false security, or to be able to rock throughout the game market. In the summer of 2017, the Stortinge decided on the message of gambling “Everything to Win”, and the Stortinge case deals with today, is a rematch in the areas where the opposition lost at that time. An IP or DNS blocking will not prevent foreign companies as long as we do not have a European legislation in place. The blockades can and will be dealt with by simple means, and their enforcement will therefore be very resource-intensive by the authorities, leading to censorship, security risks and a weakening of privacy. Here, the opposition might claim that such a blockage works well in around 15 other European countries. That may be correct, but those countries do not have a model of exclusive rights. They have a well-functioning, diverse gaming market based on licences. The size of the game message, when it comes to ‘Everything to Win’, said that it would be most appropriate to contribute to a pan-European solution for the advertising of gambling. The EU approval of the so-called ATM Directive is still ongoing. This representative proposal has engaged many in recent weeks and, of course, has also been given a great deal of space in the public vocabulary. In today's edition of the Newspaper, the Workers' Party's Kari Henriksen says that the decisions will lead to fewer players in foreign companies, while the representatives of the gaming companies say that this does not mean anything to the world. I am not in doubt about which of those who have the best skills to predict in this particular matter. Norwegian Typing and Norwegian Rikstototo must constantly develop their products in order to meet the competition of the gambling companies operating outside the borders of Norway. If we're going to fence around these, they must also be allowed to market themselves and their games. If we limit their ability to do this – as one of the proposals puts it – as a countermeasure to prevent the advertising of games that operate outside of Norwegian law, we do the exclusive rights model another bear service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1009	The representative Tage Pettersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1014	Thanks to the case rapporteur for a smooth and tidy implementation of the case. Over half of us spend money on gambling. We put money on football matches, buy Flax tickets or play Lotto. We do it because it gives a little bit of tension in everyday life, and the money we lose, we can afford to lose. But for quite a few, such innocent fun develops to take full control of life. About 120,000 Norwegians are gambling addicts or are at risk of becoming so. A majority of these play with foreign commercial gaming companies. I've met some of them. I worked for a long time at a department for drug and addiction treatment. I have seen the shame, the self-esteem, the despair, the desperation – sometimes the self-hate – in my encounters with some of those who have literally put their lives at risk. They have wasted their money and the family’s money — homes, cars, cabins, assets. I've met relatives, children, and spouse's eyes screaming for an answer to why. I have seen how they together try to find answers to something that seems unintelligible. It's serious. It's death's grave. The Labour Party will always feel that the need to protect those who are at risk of being ruined by gambling must weigh more heavily than the freedom of small players to waste their money. It is the assessment behind the choice to have an exclusive right model in which Norsk Typing has the exclusive right to offer gambling and Rikstototo’s concession to play on a horse. When the state governs the offer, we politicians can strictly regulate it and take responsibility democratically. In addition, we can decide that the profits from gambling will go back to the community, so it is we – when we buy games from Norwegian Typing – who finance tours, football courses, crew tours and voluntary activity in every crick and hook of the country. We see daily that the model is under pressure. Foreign actors want to enter the Norwegian market to make a lot of money, and they do not care that they are not welcome. Every day, more than 1,500 advertising spots are displayed for games and betting on television channels that target a Norwegian audience, and companies spend huge sums on marketing and lobbying. We have to stop this. We're tired of waiting for the government. Therefore, I am pleased to cooperate with the Christian People's Party on the proposal we are now discussing, and that the opposition stands together to protect the exclusive model. The most central thing we do is limit access to foreign gambling. There is no reason for an illegal offer to be so easily accessible that you can easily click on the websites of foreign gaming companies or download apps and play on the phone. There are already many EU countries, to which the rapporteur also referred, which regulate unregulated gambling sites, and there is good experience in this. In addition, we give the Lottery Authority a better chance to actually stop illegal activity. Lottery supervision must be capable of requiring banks to reject the transfer of gambling money and require annual reporting on such transfers. They must be able to better investigate cases and require the provision of information by actors contributing to illegal advertising or gambling and be able to impose an infringement fee on persons – know-how, bloggers and others – involved in illegal marketing. The government has announced that they will stop the TV advertising, and we are impatiently waiting for concrete proposals. In our proposal, we point to the paradox that the Norwegian oil fund invests in foreign gaming companies that deliberately undermine Norwegian law, and we are asking for an assessment of whether such investments should be completed. The opposition currently ensures a majority of measures that raise the threshold to the Norwegian market for foreign gambling companies. Although the government says in its platform that it will preserve the exclusive right model, it has not been particularly eager to put in place measures to protect it – perhaps not so strange when two out of three government parties want to get rid of it. I disagree with the fact that this is an attack on the freedom of people, because I believe that the freedom of vulnerable players to avoid being bombarded with advertising, called up by aggressive gaming companies and risk playing from farm and land and from family and friends must weigh more than the consideration of small players' desire to play games that Norsk Tipping does not have in its portfolio. In doing so, I take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party and other parties are behind the case. I would just like to inform you that the proposals No. 3 and No 8 has been drawn, and they are replaced by loose proposals that are promoted in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1035	The representative Kari Henriksen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1040	Let me just start by saying that gambling policy is a serious matter. There are both moral point fingers and deep concerns in the pancreas, and some create images of a certain man – painted in the deepest black color – on the wall. It reminds me of an old grandaunt who thought it was not even right to play cards on Sunday. The President will forgive me, but I must admit that I have thought of her on a few occasions through the examination of this matter. She would virtually forbid everything she didn't like. It's letting your own feelings and opinions form the premise and not looking at the facts. The game report sets out three objectives for the game policy we are going to lead here to land. These appear to be equivalent in the notification. It is necessary to ensure that lotteries and gambling are carried out within safe and responsible frameworks, to limit unlucky gambling practices that can lead to gambling dependence, and to provide a good source of income for social and humanitarian work. Let me also add that it is quite natural to view games as one initially harmless recreation and pastime for the all, most of us. In the proposal for a representative, there is an interesting demonstration of the unregulated gambling offer. For this reason, the proposers actually propose the use of ‘all available instruments’. There is nothing fundamentalistic about using all available tools. I would also argue that this is contrary to the objectives of the game announcement. If gambling is pushed further away from regulated forms, less and less control over how it is done. It is also surprising that the opposition wishes to introduce a number of bans and restrictions without fully identifying how it will be done, without assessing whether they will be effective in achieving the objectives of the game policy and regardless of whether they will actually work. For example, the various types of Internet blocking mentioned are most likely to be totally ineffective. It is claimed in the proposal that other countries have had good experience in blocking online games. This seems at best to be the wishful thinking of the proposers. It is a well-known case that such blocking is easy to bypass, as the case-rapporteur pointed out, and there is little or no coverage to say that it is less game-dependent if you try to block games online. Nevertheless, gambling addiction is to be taken with the greatest seriousness. However, the Progress Party has little faith that prohibition, prohibition and blocking are the way to help them. Most people have a healthy and healthy relationship with the games offered in the market. The problems arise to a greater extent in the hidden gambling market, where there is no control, and where gambling and serious crime occur side by side. The majority in this case have probably paved their way with good intentions, but reading some of the proposals that have been put forward is a bit moving in the frp-back margin. Here are forewords such as ‘blockers’, ‘inhibiting’, ‘crawling’, ‘placing’, ‘limiting’ and ‘grassing’. In the Progress Party, we would like to say, "My freedom ends where yours begins." The personal sense of freedom is sadly absent in the reality of the role models. Many are concerned about the offensive of the gambling companies and partly aggressive marketing, where it is worth remembering that Norsk Tipping is also a very visible player when it comes to marketing and hunting new customers. It is good to remember that restrictions on advertising for legal gambling operators will have consequences for Norwegian TV productions when, for example. Discovery Networks Norway will reduce its revenue from gaming advertising. I will leave the proposal for a possible withdrawal of the State pension fund abroad from gambling companies, but only stress that it belongs more naturally to the annual management notification of the fund. Then it is just waiting for the phone from Hamar that the lottery ticket has gone in, a completed five-week slip – not exciting at all, but not suitable for developing gambling addiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1061	Everyone in the Chamber likes to say – the rapporteur was also concerned – that we are in favour of a responsible game policy and of the model of exclusive rights. After the previous speeches, I have to say that a little bit of the challenge with today's debate is that we're probably putting a little different into both what is a responsible game policy, and what an exclusive right model really is. There is also some of the background to the debate we have today, which is also not a new debate. It's a debate we had at regular intervals throughout the last four-year period. It is, as the representative Henriksen had in mind, an increasing problem with both advertising and offering of what is illegal, but which through advertising becomes very easily accessible, namely the operation of foreign gambling companies in the Norwegian market. The representative Henriksen pointed to the increase in the number of advertisements in the last few years. It is almost impossible for anyone who looks at any of the television channels in the Norwegian TV offer today to avoid that kind of advertising. It's so intrusive. It's almost bombarded. It is clear – the reason for this is that the market for these gambling companies is strongly increasing, and the foreign gambling companies account for a large proportion. The centre party is pleased with the proposals that are being given a majority today. We believe these are necessary proposals. We have had a lot of debates, and there were a lot of suggestions in the last period. Every time something is proposed, the answer is that new processes are to be started and new processes are to be re-started. In those processes, I think it's important to determine what the bulk of the population really means on this question. This is done today through the proposals that will be adopted. In some areas, we don't really need any more reviews. We need the government to follow up the decision making decisions that are actually being taken in this room. The case rapporteur said that this was a rematch about what we lost in the previous period. Yeah, it's a rematch. It's a completely natural rematch, because between the previous and this period we've had a choice, and in that election, the minority became from the previous period to a majority. That's what's the big difference. What the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV were in minority about in the previous period, we are now in majority. These are the same proposals. It's the same consistent policy to defend the exclusive model. The difference is that today it has a majority in the Norwegian economy. That's why this rematch is a completely natural rematch, which is very important that the government not only notices, but actually follows up as well. I've noticed that the minority in Stortinget, i.e. the government parties, today they say they're in the process of a lot. But there's one thing they won't be in the process of, and it's about the issue of the oil fund and the investment of the oil fund in waste companies. I will acknowledge that there is no simple question for the Central Party either, but the majority today are proposing exactly what the government seems to be very pleased about – namely ‘to determine the basis for’. I think that should be natural. Of all the processes under way by the government, they should also initiate such a process and determine whether there is a basis for doing so. In all other parts of this case, it is time that the government parties are now following up the majority of the Stortinge actually adopts, and not blaming for ever-new processes. This is also true of the uncertainty created by the JELUEA declaration, which says that we should review the game policy again, when everyone knows that we have dealt with a game message and we have a majority in Stortinget who have clear views of what is needed to defend the exclusive right model.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1080	For most people gambling is completely unproblematic, but today the bulk of the population say clearly that it is not possible to take advantage of the hundreds of thousands of people in this country who suffer from gambling addiction. For too long, foreign gambling companies have made millions, if not billions, of people's misery. For too long, aggressive marketing of gambling has gone over Norwegian screens. For too long, the Norwegian model of exclusive rights has been challenged, at the expense of the regulated and responsible games and at the expense of thousands of teams and associations and other good purposes financed by the surplus of gambling. Now the bulk of the population clearly says that enough is enough. Today, Stortinget adopts a number of measures for a more responsible and fairer gambling policy, which protects those who are struggling with gambling addiction, and which can prevent more people from being involved in addiction even in the future. I really think that must be the policy's task: to protect the weak party, the one who is being exploited, and not large foreign companies with high turnover. This will strengthen the Norwegian monopoly model. And why is it really so important? Well, first of all, because the Norwegian model of exclusive rights ensures accountability and balance. The games of money at Norsk Typing shall be attractive to those who play, but they are subject to a number of limitations and safety valves that prevent gambling dependence. Games are regulated and can be regulated more strongly if necessary. In addition, it is so important because the profits from Norsk Tipping are used for a number of good purposes, ranging from voluntary teams and associations, through the construction of cultural arenas, to the good work against, for example, child poverty supported by the Extra Foundation. That is why I am pleased today that the opposition with SV is being implemented in order to strengthen the exclusive right model: We give the Lottery Authority the muscles needed to regulate the gambling and stop the illegal foreign actors through, among other things. to allow them to impose an infringement fee. We ask the government to investigate the basis for withdrawing the oil fund from gambling companies and to obtain an assessment of this in connection with the management notification. And perhaps most importantly, we ask the government to stop unregulated gambling by introducing DNS blocking of their websites. The sum of the eight proposals adopted today will mean a lot to the more than a hundred thousand people suffering from gambling addiction. It could mean that many thousands of people do not face the same fate. I would also like to say that for the SV, it is essential that when we reach out for good goals as a more responsible gaming policy, we also have to take privacy into account. Therefore, SV has made a loose proposal today that gives a very important clarification about blocking foreign gaming companies. We make it clear that a DNS blockage of foreign companies' websites is to be introduced. We do that because the original proposal, no. 8 from the proposers could open up more invasive forms of blocking – such as IP blocking. IP blocking websites is a technology SV believes we should not open up to use in Norway. It's a scary way to go. In addition, it is upresis, because IP addresses are like residence addresses – they are linked to a place that can be used by several. Therefore, it is so important that we now decide to introduce DNA blocking, which is a milder and more precise form of blocking, which better respects privacy. DNS blocking is already being used in Norway for other illegal content. That is why I am very pleased with the result in this case. We are able to balance the consideration of the hundreds of thousands who are struggling with gambling addiction, the exclusive model and privacy in a good way. The steps we take today are good for the future, for a more responsible and fair game policy. SV votes for the proposals in the vote, with the exception of proposal No. 4 and proposal No. 8 – which I register now is drawn. We shall then vote instead of the two solutions to the matter, and I shall also refer to proposal No. 10, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party – to introduce DNS blocking of the websites of foreign gambling companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1120	Then the representative Freddy André Oberstegård mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1125	In this case, the opposition has promoted a number of seemingly random proposals that they hope to protect if the Norwegian model of exclusive rights and, at the same time, counteract gambling dependence. We're all committed to doing our job both to counteract gambling addiction and to making the situation easier for those who are addicted. That is why the government is working today with a new law in the field of gambling, which will cover all aspects of this policy. The game message, which has not even reached the age of one and a half years, addressed several important points that should and should be followed up in legal work. Therefore, I am surprised that the opposition chooses some random suggestions that they will vote on here today, instead of doing so in the notified, comprehensive matter that comes. The important thing – and I hope the opposition agrees – must be that we have a good regulation that balances all the different considerations, a regulation that actually works. I understand that it is easy to land a little crooked when most of the doors you want to enter are already open. That the intentions are good does not help if the measures you vote for are completely random. A clear example of this is the proposal for IP blocking and blocking in general. This has also been recognised by the opposition, as they draw the proposal and go for a slightly milder proposal, but which is a completely blockade. For the proposal on blocking, there may be two points: either the opposition sincerely believes that it is perfectly right to legitimise very intrusive methods that violate both privacy and the principle that the Internet as an expression channel should be free, or the scope of what is proposed is not understood. However, the result of the proposal is the same. An instrument is proposed with the intention of blocking something that is not technically feasible at first – there are too many ways already to turn around it. Secondly, it will be very resource-intensive to try to enforce it. It should be said that in some cases we see that there is a need for some kind of blockage. However, the resources we may need to use to follow up blockage must be in very, very serious cases, where we believe it is worth doing just that – as in the case of, for example. child abuse images. To say that we should extend those resources to now also apply to gambling companies does not seem to me to be particularly responsible. So to solve the proposal in the hall today that moderates the original blockage proposal somewhat. Here it is proposed to introduce DNS blocking instead. It is quite a big step in the right direction, but I am still asking questions about whether the proposer in this case has been involved in how this should work, and actually what DNA blocking is for something. The reasonable thing here might probably have been to first of all figure out what the consequences of what you want to introduce would be, and rather, I think, went into DNS alerting and figured it out, which is both less invasive and less resource-intensive, but which still responds to the same concerns. For the intent to counteract gambling addiction and make the situation easier for those who are addicted to gambling, we all agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1143	For some gambling is unproblematic fun. For others, it destroys life. More than a hundred thousand people in Norway are addicted to gambling or at risk of becoming addicted to gambling. It's been looking at this Christian People's Party has been working on the theme for a number of years now. First of all, I would like to say that it is good that the government is still at peace with the exclusive model – that is. Norwegian Typing – and this is how we acknowledge that we should be able to manage gambling politically – is the model of exclusive rights that best facilitates it. When dealing with issues like this, it is important to stress the social policy elements of gambling policy. Authorities are responsible for combating gambling addiction and social challenges arising from gambling and gambling. The human tragedies that can result in the wake of gambling addiction are serious. Therefore, it is important to have a game policy that aims to limit the number of game problems. We have an established tradition of putting responsibility first in game policy. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that this should also lead the future. The Christian People's Party has listened to several actors working on gambling addiction, and received many good advice. When we worked on the first representative proposal on the game policy of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party in the previous period, which was also the birth aid for the government's game message that we dealt with a year ago, the organization Adults for Children came with some important and timely advice that stands out very well today. They thought it was important to increase the focus on children's living conditions in gambling-dependent families. It is important to recognise that gambling addiction not only affects the addict himself, but the entire family – including the children. Gambling addiction is often associated with taboos, shame, breakaways, unemployment and, of course, a very difficult financial situation for the whole family. It is important to know about children's problems with their parents' gambling addiction. This requires monitoring, research and professional updates in the field. We're pleased that the government is at peace with the exclusive model for so long. It is primarily through what we can control gambling policy, not least in order to address the social policy aspects. What is a major challenge today is, of course, the games advertised on Norwegian televisions every day. You spend over 800 million dollars. in advertising for these games, which are not licensed and which are not wanted in Norway. In my view, the government should have done far more than what it has done so far, to stop these games. Here we are dealing with gambling companies that hide away in tax havens, which do not contribute a single penny to the Norwegian society – in my view, a cynical industry that is squeezing at people's gambling addiction. The Christian People's Party and the Labour Party therefore propose a number of measures in this proposal for a representative, measures that have also been promoted before. This is thoughtful, this is not something we have found at this time, we have promoted this both in our first representative proposal and in the game message, and we are doing it again. We believe that the government and government parties could have joined in on several of these proposals. The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are also promoting today a proposal that the Christian People's Party was alone to promote the last time, when we dealt with the game message. I am very happy that it seems that we are now getting a majority on the Stortinget for it, where we are asking the government to uncover the basis for withdrawing the State pension fund abroad from the gambling companies. I find it strange and not least ethically challenging to defend such investments. On the one hand, most of us say that we want to stop these companies from advertising their games, while on the other hand, it seems perfectly right that the state pension fund abroad invests in them. So today, it looks like we're getting a majority to give the government the task of figuring out the basis for pulling these companies out. I'm very happy about that. I hope we get a majority, because this I think is very good. Like Mr Henriksen, we are in favour of drawing proposals. 3 and 8 and also vote in favour of the proposals. 9 and 10, which are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1160	The government's policy is based on the JELUEA declaration, which states that the unit model is established in Norway. We also have a policy for protecting the vulnerable. With games, it's kind of like a lot of other parts of our society: a little bit of it in everybody's life is just fine -- if it gets too much, it's a huge problem and can destroy families. In this way, we have decided that such things should be regulated — whether they be alcohol or other things, there is a regulation that prevents us from overcoming the negative impacts of society and individuals. Now it is that in most of the proposals that are available here today, the government has already announced that it will come together. It's a little new form of parliamentaryism that the government is warning you that you're working on something, and then it's about doing for the Storting to make proposals before the government can do it. What I think is a little sloppy, is that one doesn't get the opportunity to use the amazing professional bureaucracy that we have to deal with, and that seams after four months of consideration in the committee, where you have made very thoughtful proposals, there are some loose proposals that change in the last few months. This is a rather technical and difficult field, which should be properly worked on. We've said that we're coming up with a new, common law on gambling to ensure that we get the legal regulation for this in place. We have announced that the Lottery Authority will come up with new sanctions to see if they have the opportunity to intervene effectively enough to stop those unprofessionals. Oslo Economics has been commissioned before the summer to make a separate review of the marketing of Norwegian Typing and Rikstototo today, to see if there are any regulations we can change there. We have also started a great deal of work on improving the efficiency of the payment distribution ban. I hope to have a dialogue with the entire financial industry on how we can do this in a good way, how banks and finance companies should strengthen their disclosure obligations. We're going to see if the Lottery Authority would also have more and more leverage to stop payments. Today the law is related to the account number, but we believe it should be opened so that the name of the company can also stop payments. With regard to the advertising ban that we want to enforce in Norway, it is clear that over a long time, several governments have admitted that gambling is not part of EEA law, and that in view of the countries that send game advertising to Norwegian recipients, we have had few legal remedies to intervene. Now the whole AMT Directive is under review. There's always new things happening in that field, but we're going to follow it very closely and use the entire space of action that it's possible to use. Finally, this with blocking: One is also a little aware that a professional concept is used both in the drafting of the case, in the setting of the committee and here from the pulpit today, which means that you don't fully understand the implications, what this is. Firstly, what we have learned from other countries is that pop-up markers are as effective as the IP and DNS blocking is — perhaps more effective. IP blocking is very expensive, not particularly accurate and quite intrusive about how to regulate an open internet. DNA blocking, which now looks like the committee's moving into being, is actually more efficient and less invasive, so I'm glad that at least the awakening has occurred during the comitology process, sail if it's happened after the election. But this is incredibly easy to avoid for all those who want it. I have a fear here that we'll take a lot of the profits Norsk Typing would have, to introduce a blockage that doesn't take the big ones, that doesn't take them with problems, because everyone they want to easily bypass it, and you'll basically just take them without technical insight, and that plays little. It's a bit like when we were going to introduce the data storage directive – we weren't going to take the big ones, we weren't going to take the small ones, but we were going to take the stupid ones, and I don't know if that's exactly what it is here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1179	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1184	Actually, I'm a little confused about these posts from the government parties today. First we've had posts saying that this doesn't matter, it's just open doors and games for the gallery. And then we get a government council that says there's a lot of important things going on, and we're going to sort this out, and we're going on. Governments are also concerned about Norsk Tipping's profits and more concerned about the government's redistribution of tax money to those who have the most from before, but that's another matter. The first Solberg government wanted to liberalize by letting go, for example. The postcode lottery. They got the whole organisation Norway against them. But they still have, we've heard the investigation, and now there's going to be a new game report. With what zeal can we expect the government with a minister from the Left to follow up what the Stortinge give clear information about today; that it must be shut down for foreign gaming companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1191	For me, it's a little strange to see a contrast between turning open the doors and that I'm describing that it's going on. For me, it's the same thing. Here we're doing a lot of action. The size wants to adopt it before it is determined. The size wants to adopt it before the government can come up with a new proposal on the table. What the Greatness then chooses to do is to come up with poor solutions, which are poorly explored and poorly thought out, which means that the majority changes their proposals, including in the meeting here today, with loose proposals in the main hall. These things we are working on, and I think the representative can be absolutely sure that we are going to implement the measures that lie here. We're actually dealing with most of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1196	I am pleased with the good dialogue the Committee has had on these measures. For the SV, it has been an important point to find out the concrete instruments that both protect privacy and can be an important step in the right direction to limit the foreign gambling companies. I'm a little surprised that the Council of State has such a great resistance to entering for DNS blocking, but can support being working on DNS alerts. I am very pleased that we were given clarification through a long and good dialogue in the committee, so that we today – probably – adopt a DNA blockage. Why does the Council of State think it is right to work for a DNS alert, but not a DNS alert? - Blockage?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1205	First, I want to take the opportunity to thank SV, who I think has played an important role in informing the Storting about the difference between DNS and IP blocking, a heroic effort that we have a great deal of use today. In the case of alerts, the argument on privacy does not go on, but on what works. There we have seen that an alert is as effective as the DNS blockage is, if not more, because the DNS blockage is possible to go around, and the alerts have proved to be a better way of being a wake-up for those who need that type of reminder. We see that DNA has worked in other countries, but they have a completely different game structure, so it's not always possible to compare with the DNA blockages that have been in other countries. For privacy doesn't mean the pop-up, or the blockage, so much, and basically, in terms of Internet service providers' editorial responsibility, it doesn't mean much. But when it comes to how much resources we spend on results, it means a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1212	It's a little confusing that the Council of State alternates between arguing against the content of the proposals and saying that this has the government already in the process, so one doesn't understand why a proposal is already in the process. One has to kind of make up his mind. Either one is in a process of implementing the proposals, and therefore there are open doors, or one is against the proposals. At least it's a little confusing. My simple question is: if the government is following up on these proposals, they will follow up on all the proposals that are being adopted, and what is the time horizon for implementing the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1225	The reason why this might be a little confusing for the representative is that there are a lot of different proposals. We're doing a lot of them. It is about the introduction of the AMT Directive and bans on advertising. We will do that as soon as the EEA matter is resolved, as soon as the European Parliament has taken its decisions. The reason why I'm a little bit critical of DNA blocking is because I think it'll cost a lot of resources compared to what DNS pop-up would do, which would be equally effective, I mean, based on the experiences we've done before. Some of these suggestions I would have preferred to see in a different version, but most of them we are now implementing, and we are going to implement them as soon as the rules allow us to do so. But we are not represented in the European Parliament. I cannot change the AMT Directive from the government offices here in Oslo. In fact, we have to wait for the EEA processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1234	Before Christmas, I was invited to the Ministry of Culture by the then Minister of Culture, Linda Hofstad Helleland, to a happy news that now there would be a ban on television advertising, because it was realized that the national legislation could be used to stop advertising. You'd always have thought and always said, "No, it's too hard." But then it turns out that within our own national legislation it is possible. At least I was promised that there would be a matter for Stortinget about this quite quickly. So I wonder, how does the department work with it now? I hear now that we have to wait until the European Union is done with its work. But we have the opportunity within our own law to stop this advertising. Why doesn't the Minister of Culture take advantage of the opportunity that we actually have?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1242	It's actually a little bit difficult to know what other government councils in the past have promised Mr. Bekkevold in the back room. I'm afraid I can't stand for that. It is obvious that if we are going to use the Norwegian legislation in full, the AMT Directive will give us the space for action. I think Valgerd Reply City Haugland, when she was Minister of Culture, really tried to use the national code to stop this. I think the culture ministers before me have tried to use the entire space of action. Based on my knowledge today – if it turns out it’s wrong – I’ll correct it afterwards – it’s the European processes that incorporate this into the EEA Regulation that allow us to exercise power over suppliers from other countries. If it turns out that someone found holes that have been sealed again after I arrived, I'm really going to dig to see if I can find them again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1249	This was no more in the back than that it was actually shown on national television with a look-up by the former Minister of Culture and the undersigned. Of course, what has proved difficult is to stop the foreign broadcasters from sending advertising. You can use the distributors in Norway to get it done. And that was within the regulatory framework we saw the possibility to stop that kind of advertising. But I understand that there has been no dialogue between the previous and current Minister of Culture about this work. I ask, and I ask, was this just put in the drawer? It was announced on national television that this was to be delivered by the government, and it would not take that long before Stortinget got a case on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1258	Then I promise that we will dig properly in the drawer and see if we can find that proposal again. Very familiar is the AMT Directive which gives us that space for action, and then the European Parliament has taken much longer than you expect. New elements have also been introduced, which make it even more difficult. We are following the process in Brussels quite closely from the government's side to look at what space of action we have. But I notice that if you read the comments in the case, it is also a problem from the committee what it means for Norwegian media production – at least in the comment that the Senterpartiet has submitted. We need to ensure that we do this in a good way, that we follow EU legislation, and that we see whether we can use the action space for the Norwegian legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1265	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1272	It is very good that there will be a majority in this matter today. This case illustrates an important political distinction in this Chamber: individual freedom against Community responsibility for all. There are free market forces and capital forces against sensible regulation of the same. We see the exact same thing in the alcohol policy as the Council of States was on, but there's a political dividing line between the Christian People's Party and the left on the one hand and the right hand side on the other. Let me say it so that I really don't know if I got very clear after the round of questions, but I have at least understood that there's something here that's not so stupid, and then there's something that's stupid. But when I heard the Right Introduction, I wondered whether not a mere government would reject the whole proposal; for here there was no thing, after what I heard, that would rock the game practice of the day. In addition, it would be resource-intensive and time-consuming, and this would lead to additional bureaucracy — and it is very special that it comes from a government that has a record of increasing the proportion of bureaucrats in Norway. It would also submit false security if we were to listen to the Right Representative. The Progress Party had the same policy as they've had all along – they won't regulate anything at all, and at least they won't regulate something that can better take care of weak people. It was about demonization and the man with the lion. I have to say that I felt a little dedicated to my old workplace, where people woke up after delirium. But that's not what we're talking about; we're actually talking about people, ordinary people of flesh and blood, who become victims of gambling addiction, and that's not a joke. Then I want to end up with a thought I got when I heard the Left in the pulpit. Then I came to Inger Jacobsen's old tune: "I'm waiting for you until you come, though the time will fall long." So, the opposition is tired of waiting, now the government has to deliver, and we're a hungry opposition, which will follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1283	I'd like to start by adding a little comment to the previous speaker, not to the song reference, but I want a little philosophical perspective on it. Previous speakers set out a contrast between the individual's freedom and the Community's sensible regulations on this issue. In my opinion, these measures are also concerned with protecting the individual’s freedom – the individual’s freedom from exploitation, the individual’s freedom from gambling addiction, the individual’s freedom from being exploited by the most serious of foreign gambling companies. Also, it's personal freedom, so here these two considerations go hand in hand, in my opinion. So I would like to make a comment on some of the criticisms that have come both from parts of the right here in this room and from the representatives of the foreign gaming companies here in Norway who are sure to follow the stream, and give a little greeting to all of them as well. There is a logical lack of arguments against some of these measures, for example: blocking, to which it's quite interesting to listen, because some people from the right and the game companies say it's that the decision to block out has nothing to say, because you can easily get around it, and at the same time it's called a major intervention in private freedom, yes, some even compare with North Korea. So far you're willing to go. In other words, all tricks are used in the communication manual for this matter, even when the tricks are contradictory. But we know that a blockage, for example. a DNS blockage, may work. It has been mentioned several times that it is used in other countries, but it is also used in Norway, on other illegal content. We already have the ability to do it here too, it works. That's why I think there's good reason to choose that tool, in addition to all the other good proposals we're now getting a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1292	Freddy André Upper Courtyard was concerned that someone used the Trix Manual. I would then like to take the opportunity to say that I think we should be honest, all in this debate. When we discuss game politics and you say in the post that hundreds of thousands of people suffer, I think it's going to be reading the statistics in a violent way. Geir Jørgen Bekkevold had a flaming post where more or less the entire gaming industry was characterized by very broad brush, and I can say I agree with much of the intention that lay behind. In this case, however, the debate should be about what measures we can take that have a positive impact on what we are against. I can just show you what you're doing, for example. now in Sweden, from 1 January, with its entire gaming market. I'm not saying that's the solution for us in Norway, but it's at least an answer to the tirad that the representative Bekkevold had with regard to the gaming industry. The important thing – and I was interested in it in my first post – when it comes to preserving the exclusive right model, is to take care of Norsk Tippings and Norsk Rikstototo's ability to survive, and one of the proposals that are on the table is to reduce their ability to market. I'm absolutely sure that that day the profits from Norsk Tipping are no longer the same size, there are many who are going to cry out that we have to do something other than preserve the exclusive right model. I think that's something we should have with us in the further work, all of us who are defenders of just the exclusive model, which the government parties – and the government – are. In conclusion, there has been a small debate on whether or not things should be investigated before making proposals, or whether or not doors are open or closed. In view of our loose proposal, I am pleased that everyone in the committee is in favour of it. It shows in a good way that it might be okay that we do some research, and here it was about the fact that the proposal would have negative consequences for more digital games, of which the Pantelotteriet is one. I have not yet been away from anyone who has become a gambling addict to the Pantelotteriet. Sometimes it's a good idea to go an extra round.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1303	It's a timely question to ask yourself whether to regulate anything you don't like, because what you do with the proposal for DNA blocking is to intervene in the infrastructure itself on the Internet. If such measures are to be introduced, at least a thorough investigation should be carried out to see what the consequences will be, and not what the proposal today says, that it should be introduced – sentence. The respect for the legislation we introduce depends on the fact that it actually works well, and the DNA blockage is so easy to circumvent that it just threatens to legitimize this type of regulation. And then I also ask myself the question: If you are going to introduce this form of regulation and you find out afterwards that it does not actually work as intended – how short is the way to ban the next step, ban VPN services, prohibit encrypted services? There's a track that I think is very dangerous to go out on. I would also like to point out that Norway is criticising other countries for censoring the Internet, and if we are to start introducing precisely that kind of action, we must at least go quietly in the doors afterwards. Then I am glad that there will be no decision on IP blocking today. It was said from this chair in the past that the proposals in the matter were well-worked proposals that had been raised several times earlier. Then you can ask yourself why you first find out that two of the proposals came out so crooked that you have to draw them. The dividing line that the representative Henriksen sees is probably essentially a dividing line that goes on whether we want to use the investigation institute or not. And then, as a little response to the song reference, we can calm the representative Henriksen that the one waiting for something good is not waiting in vain – in this case one would not have had to wait that long either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1312	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1328	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1337	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in the examination of document 8:115 on teaching shortages. There is a broad political consensus that the teacher is the school's main resource, and the availability of qualified teachers is a key factor in ensuring quality in training, which we are all concerned with. It is therefore our common challenge that over time the school has had a relatively high proportion of unqualified teachers, and that difficulties are reported in recruiting enough qualified teachers for teaching jobs around the country, slightly different from districts to districts. As the rapporteurs point out, there are different estimates of the need for more teachers and, as is also apparent from the Council's reply to the Committee, this comes in particular. of different calculation models on which one considers. That we have a challenge in recruiting enough qualified teachers, there's no doubt about it. I am pleased that the Committee has gathered that there is a need for increased focus on recruiting teachers, and that a new teaching standard that will ensure more teachers for all students requires increased efforts in this area. As regards how this work is to be carried out and as proposed by the proposers, the Committee is divided. There are a number of proposals from the parties that I believe the parties themselves will present and promise in the further debate today. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, points out that the United Kingdom in the 2018 State Budget Agreement decided that the introduction of the teaching norm should be seen in the context of measures to strengthen recruitment, and expects the government to follow this up rapidly with a strengthened recruitment policy and new measures that contribute to increased recruitment to teacher training and the profession. Otherwise, I assume that the individual parties present their proposals and justifications for their proposals. Let me end by saying a few words as a representative of the Christian People's Party. We support the intention and share the concerns of the central party proposers, but we do not believe a big message is the solution. A job that is going to become a big message takes a long time, and this is what we believe is not the time we have when it comes to recruiting teachers. Increased efforts and focus are needed on recruitment and action that can be taken quickly, so that they can work in both the short and slightly longer term. This is what we expect the government to follow up, which we have an agreement on from the budget, and we are today sending a new and clear message that the Stortinget expects follow-up from the government. With regard to the concrete proposals that have been put forward, they are very good, and we will come back to this in the work on our alternative budgets in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1354	It's urgent to take action to solve the teaching shortage in school and make sure that the students meet a qualified teacher in the classroom. What we are debating today is a lack of teachers. Actually, we should talk about a double or triple learning deficiency. First, in the years to come, school will lack thousands of teachers — a challenge that is reinforced by a much-needed teaching standard in school. Secondly, the districts are hit hardest, especially in North Norway, and thirdly, there are increasing numbers of male teachers in school. The consequences include: the maximum proportion of unqualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms of 15 years. All of this should indicate that government and big business were making a strong effort to recruit teachers. Unfortunately, that has not happened. The right banner before the 2013 elections was the teacher – Erna was the ‘teacher’s lover’. In fact, the right-wing party was not always talking about the challenge of getting better teachers, not more teachers — as if it were today’s teachers who had failed. I want to say that the best way to build trust and facilitate school development is to talk up those who are going to do the job. The fact is, after almost five years with the Right in the Ministry of Knowledge, that there has been no success in increasing the attractiveness of the teaching profession, in passing through the study, or in getting more qualified teachers out into the classroom. The result is that we have a recruitment challenge. Recruitment to teacher training for the youngest students in particular has been too low throughout the period. Up to half of the students in these studies end in five years. At the same time, we know that many new teachers end up in the profession too early, so that the challenge is reinforced. About 25 pst. of all newly-trained teachers, enter professions other than the teaching profession, which is equivalent to about 1000 teachers per year. This means that municipalities are looking for other solutions when they are unable to fill school with many highly qualified teachers. As a result, the use of unqualified teachers has now and in the 2016/2017 school year been the highest in 15 years. In addition, we have a major gender equality challenge. There have been fewer and fewer men who are teachers in classrooms. Now one in four teachers in primary school are men, and the percentage is falling. It will continue to sink if you don't do anything drastic. For fewer and fewer male teachers are trained. The proportion of male teacher students is below the proportion of teachers in school. At some colleges we can visit classes where there are only girls left. Already in 2014, Right’s then Minister of Knowledge, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, was challenged by the growing number of men in Norwegian classrooms. That time he called evolution sad. He had no concrete action he would put in, but hoped that continuing training might lead to the problem being resolved. It hasn't. Therefore, the government parties get to bear that we take their message that “now everything is going so much better”, with a pinch of salt. This is a warned challenge. We've heard for a long time that there's a plan for recruitment. It's overtime. That there is not already an overall, comprehensive and offensive plan for teacher recruitment is beginning to approach a kind of failure sin. In the Workers' Party, we support the development of a large-scale report on teacher recruitment, but believe that there must in no way be a rest cushion or prevent concrete and offensive measures to get more teachers. The opposition – the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the SV – is therefore promoting more proposals today to ensure that students are adequately qualified teachers, among others. that we will prescribe the guidance system for the newly-trained. We will ensure enough teachers with research skills and practices from school. We propose measures for the qualification of unqualified at school. We ask the government to implement a national recruitment campaign. The Workers' Party and the Centre Party are asking the Government to facilitate more teachers' and teachers' courses in school, and we believe that new senior measures should be considered in order to allow teachers to remain longer in the profession. In addition, measures that have not been promoted in this case but have been taken by us in the past – that we want more practice in teacher training, not separated and experienced teachers and, not least, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's proposal for a trust reform in school. Teachers who have left school state that what can motivate them back to the teaching profession is more time for each student, less bureaucracy and reporting and increased professional space for action. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1371	Time's up. The representative may also have to make suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1376	I would like to address the proposals that the Labour Party and other parties are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1381	The representative Martin Henriksen then addressed the proposals he referred to, and the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1386	The teacher is our most important resource when we're going to create a good school for our little ones. From kindergarten to higher education, professionally qualified teachers and intermediaries are absolutely crucial if we are to succeed in social cohesion, ensure our children the sense of mastery and provide them with the joy of learning and necessary to meet the unknown labour market of the future, which is constantly changing. It requires a lot of our schools, of our school leaders and of ourselves as politicians, but not least of the teacher himself. The effort made by the government and non-socialist parties through the Teacher's Lift has therefore been a very important and absolutely necessary investment to secure the school's most important resource. The government parties have, as you know, agreed with the Christian People's Party to introduce a teaching norm, and the Educational Association has been among those who have pointed out that this in itself will be recruiting for the teaching profession. When the draft representative draws up the teaching norm as an argument for talking about a teacher crisis, it actually shows that the arguments in this matter go in very different directions and with different agendas. So I think that might be right, and serve the cause, that you take a look at the facts. It is, of course, demanding to predict the future, but a good overview of the history, the means, the effect of these and our experience so far should provide a good basis for predictions of the future. And then there's little to remind of a crisis, because although there will be some challenges, there's no doubt that the number of unskilled in school is getting out of it – despite the fact that record teachers are taking on further training, which will naturally require us to have a few more temporary staff than before. If we base the current number of continuing educations, everything suggests that we are actually in a good track towards 2025 in terms of competence requirements. In addition, there is an increase in the number of continuing education — over 7,200 teachers coming in autumn — and we continue to do so, looking even better. At the same time, we see that the number of applicants for continuing training in subjects other than those with qualifications is high and actually higher than the total number of teachers who received further training under the red-green budgets. It should be a thought for those who claim that this bet represents a narrow vision of knowledge and that we do not see the breadth of school. In Tromsø we have had both master training and recording requirements for some years. Experience is a record increase year after year — and increased implementation, as students have a better professional starting point. Recently we got numbers that show that record numbers want to be teachers, and the student school will be one of the better ones in the country as regards the professional starting point at the start of the study. So it's not just about the number of applicants, it's also about the number that implements, and so far there's a lot of evidence that it's going in a positive direction here as well. It should also be worth noting that the Ministry of Knowledge estimates that in the autumn of 2018 there will be a surplus of around 200 teachers from the 2018 school at teacher training. In addition, government parties and the Christian People's Party have set up grant schemes for those who want to take PPU, who will be able to qualify as teachers, as well as a grant scheme of up to NOK 160,000, which helps to recruit specifically to the three northernmost states. The government has also now provided additional funds for recruiting teacher students to UiT and Nord universitet. And last, we know now, from the revised, that we get another 10 million. to recruit more teachers to several institutions. Nor is it an unknown issue that municipalities around District Norway have had – and have – challenges when recruiting, including teachers. Especially in the north, the challenge has been great. Scholarships arranged here contribute positively. Depreciation of 10 pst. of the student loan annually for those taking a job in Nord-Troms and Finnmark, contributes to the top of it again. And not least: all municipalities must be forward-looking. It's about offering a living, a job for one more, thinking pay and other benefits. Although urban life can live on its own, it is important that the many qualities that exist outside the city center are also visible as school owners. It's also important to think whole, and good guidance is part of such a whole. Here the government is well-informed with the parties, and I look forward to the outcome. I will not dispute that it will be difficult to ensure many skilled teachers, in line with our objectives, but much indicates that the great effort on teachers – through further training, skills requirements, admission requirements, the introduction of master training, higher starting wages, recruitment campaigns and favourable scholarship schemes – has contributed positively. And we don't need delaying flashing messages to look at these single instruments. We invest so that our schools get access to more capable teachers in the future. That's what our kids deserve, and that's what they're all about. We should not call that a crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1405	The world is evolving, and society is developing, new demands and new needs are being created, and this may make skills and lifelong learning even more important today than it was before. Doctors, carpenters, electricians, pharmacists and other professional groups in Norway have one thing in common, and that is that they have to be able to read, write and count in order to carry out their occupations. These are the teachers in school who have taught them. It shows the importance of teachers in society. Without good teachers, society will actually collapse. Now we are in a situation where we know that in the years to come there will be good job opportunities for those who want to become teachers. We know that there will be a lot of new teachers in the years to come, and that's a challenge we have to solve. Measures to address the deficiency include: increasing the status of teacher training through the introduction of master training, which will provide higher pay, better guidance for newly-trained teachers in order to prevent any early retirement in the professional career, and we have in place arrangements for the cancellation of student loans for teachers, based on the type of education they have or where they wish to reside to work. To recruit teachers, we also need to recruit students to complete the education. Clear skills requirements and character requirements provide better teachers. This leads to an increase in the rate of implementation, because applicants have higher grades with them from high school and thus better prerequisites for completion. This is something we have seen from previous years, through research and experience from other study services. We want the best applicants for teacher training, and therefore we have made stricter admission requirements, which ensure that the status of the teaching profession increases, and which will in the long run provide more good teachers. Another factor is that we have to make sure that more people stay in the profession as teachers. In all my meetings with teachers, there are some of the most important things that they themselves bring out, opportunities for further education. Never before have so many teachers taken part in further training as after the government change in 2013. This helps to improve the quality of teaching, as confirmed by the fact that seven out of ten teachers change their teaching system after they have completed further training. Although we have implemented many measures and already see some results, it is not time to lift the flag and relax. We see that access to qualified teachers is a challenge in some parts of the country, and that this can continue in the years to come, especially through the introduction of a teaching norm. We therefore need to monitor closely the development of the recruitment of teachers and to provide measures that are tailored to the challenges we face. I heard that the representative Henriksen said that in individual proposals they have proposed measures for the qualification of unqualified. It's probably a truth with modifications, because in the document the opposition didn't come up with concrete suggestions for action even at that point, except that they noticed that they were very critical of raising the character requirement in mathematics to four. So I guess you can imagine that to get more unqualified, you just have to lower the threshold to qualify, and then the problem is solved. I believe that this proposal illustrates in many ways the opposition's way of operating policies. They criticise the government for most of the measures we propose and implement, and sometimes there is almost no limit to how incompetent we are. In this case, we are told that we are ‘directing towards a teacher crisis with open eyes’, as the proposer said in the VG. After all, it must be a major failure statement for them to find concrete measures to get more qualified teachers, they themselves have to ask the government to find new measures, because they have no one in the document themselves. Then I think it's a great advantage – both for the positions and opposition parties – that after all, we're the boss, because it seems like we're the ones who have to find the measures. I believe that much of what is going on will have a good effect, but we also need to give the measures time to work. Already this year we see a solid progress in the application rates for all teacher training, so we see that the arrows are starting to point in the right direction. We have high ambitions for Norwegian school. We see that the students learn more, they are more present, and fewer falls away. That is why we are going to hold a rough course and the intensity of our work on improving and renewing Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1426	Let me first say that it is not difficult to admit that the lack of qualified teachers is not a new problem. It's a problem we've been struggling with for many years, and it's a difficult and quite demanding field to work with. There is also a trend where we see an increasing trend towards the use of unqualified labour at school. It's actually increased by almost 40 pst. from 2013 to today, and 5.6 pst. teachers in primary school are now non-qualified teachers. It's a worrying move, and we should all be concerned about it. But I feel that the Right and Advance Party spokespersons here today almost do not recognize the problem. It's kind of completely cloudless in the Right Sky when it comes to this particular issue. I think it might have been an advantage that we had recognised that this is actually a problem issue. I can agree that this is not a new issue, but it is a problem we have to deal with and do something about. We propose a big message. The case rapporteur says we don't have time to wait for that. I believe that there is no contradiction between taking action quite quickly, and getting a big message that can give us a better knowledge base, not least about why we have an increasing proportion of non-qualified people in school. We lack that knowledge, it's a hole in that knowledge. Getting a better knowledge base would make sense, even if action should be taken quite immediately. In addition, we might have a better chance of seeing the relationship between the different measures that might have a negative impact on the recruitment of the teacher profession. There are just some of the underlying reasons that the centre party is also concerned about in this case. This is why it is so difficult to understand the unwillingness to investigate and get an overview of the figures and statistics, as well as the link between different actions, which a big message could give us. Let me point out a couple of things that the Center Party is concerned about regarding the underlying trends, which we think are difficult. One is the question of a fourth requirement in mathematics for learning. We believe that since that requirement was introduced, Norwegian school has missed almost a thousand possible future teachers. We see that these advances that have been held have not been a great success. Although a lot of money has been put in to carry them out, the proportion who sign up for the exam and the proportion who qualify for admission are very low. That's got to worry. Then a sailor might ask himself, is it right to have a fourth requirement in mathematics at the teacher's level? The central party's answer to that is no. We think it would have been better if one had started from the average of the characters as such, as one does in many other educations. To be honest, we think that the comparison with the four-point requirement of NTNU, the civil engineering study, is rather sought. The Civil Engineering Study at NTNU is a study specifically aimed at real science and mathematics. There might be a sense of having a four-digit requirement in mathematics, in teacher training, it's not that. That's where it makes sense to take the average. Then a prisoner can pick up the large proportion of motivated students who today want to get into teacher education, those who are good in a lot of subjects, but who don't exactly have the four in mathematics. We miss them today – I believe that Norwegian school cannot afford that. The second centre party wants to problematize is the teacher's norm. I understand that the right now has suddenly become very much a teacher’s norm – it seems surprising to me when I think about how it is received in the Right around the country. I don't think there's any reason to minimize what the teaching norm can contribute to in terms of geographical bias. There is no doubt that it will lead to greater competition for already a few qualified teachers, it will lead to greater competition for something that is lacking. That competition is going to be won by the central strikers in this country, who are also getting more money in the reform. The 170 municipalities that don't get an extra penny to increase their teacher's density will also lose in the fight for the skilled workforce on the teacher's side, and they already have the highest proportion of non-qualified teachers today. They make it so bad in the PISA surveys that the government councils of the Right are constantly saying that we need to do something to make things better in North Norway and Tronde Teams. So they're going to be left with fewer teachers according to the teacher's norm. It's a source of concern, and it surprises me that the Right Party and the Advance Party are so ignoring it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1441	The lack of qualified teachers is one of the greatest challenges facing us in Norwegian school in the coming years. SV believes it is urgent to take action to remedy the serious teaching shortage in the school and ensure that our students meet a qualified teacher in the classroom. The fact that thousands of students attend school every day and are not taught by a qualified teacher is unacceptable. The situation is serious in Norwegian school. The government has, with its broad eyes, contributed to a teacher’s crisis through the separation of teachers and the introduction of math requirements. In addition, the introduction of five-year master-level teacher training has led to a shift in pre-educated teachers. In addition, a national standard for increasing teacher density will increase the need for more teachers. SV has supported the introduction of master's education, and we are not least very happy that we are finally getting a teacher's norm in place. But it is irresponsible and highly incomprehensible that the government does not at the same time see the increased need for teachers. Nor now, in the middle of the time when the schools are in a process of recruiting new teachers to be in place for the autumn, are we getting offensive measures from the government. Very many municipalities report difficulties in attracting staff with approved competence for education. The situation is difficult all over the country, but particularly challenging in the north, where the teaching shortage is greatest. In addition, in Northern Norway, the number of vacancies for several teacher training courses is dramatically high. In the case of non-accredited teachers, the number is increasing, from 3.24 pst. in 2013 to 5.6 pst. in 2017. The red-green government managed to reverse a negative trend in a few years and demonstrated that this is not a witchcraft, but a matter of will and priorities – a will and a capacity for priorities that are completely absent from today’s government. In practice, this means that students are taught by non-educators in 1.5 million school hours. This is unfortunate for the quality of teaching and a great paradox when the government separates experienced teachers with formal teacher training. I therefore believe that this government is guiding with open eyes against increasing teaching shortages and a school of lower quality in teaching, contrary to what the government claims. It is urgent to take action to remedy the serious teaching shortage and ensure that the students meet a qualified teacher in the classroom. If we're going to get enough teachers, we're going to need a pair of measures, and we're going to have to start now. There are many concrete proposals in this case that would have helped the serious situation. But not one of the proposals that lie in this matter, the Christian People's Party and the government parties can be involved. The only thing we get out of this case is: ‘The government is asking for sufficient qualified teachers through a reinforced recruitment policy and new measures that contribute to increased recruitment to teacher training and the profession.’ What does this mean? It's politicians' language and must be the least concrete and most uncommitted thing I've seen in my entire life. The impression of analysing the government's blatant attempts to improve quality in primary school is that they have decided on some measures first and then forgotten to think about whether they actually work. Instead of having more teachers, we've had fewer hours of unskilled teachers, and instead of keeping teachers longer in the profession, we have a government that actively goes in to throw them out of the profession. I'll bring this up with the SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1464	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1469	The teacher is the principal resource of the school and the student. Safe and good teachers are important for students' learning, and students all over the country need qualified teachers. This has been the main priority of the Left in school policy in recent years. Access to qualified teachers is a key factor in ensuring quality in school training. We in the Left are pleased with the offensive bet by the state councils Jan Tore Sanner and Iselin Nybø, who are now coming in the form of 10 million. kr for the recruitment of teachers. That the teaching profession has become more attractive, no one can dispute today when there is a record search for the teaching profession. This is done in accordance with an offensive priority and commitment — by setting requirements for competence, by facilitating further education and by making it a master’s education and thus increasing the status of the profession. The size has adopted a teacher’s norm, which the government is now making a great effort to enforce. The teacher standard does not initially take into account the results and challenges of pupils and schools, and we therefore need to ensure that the norm does not result in a collection of resources from schools that have a more demanding starting point than others. There is also a growing need for teachers in the largest cities and municipalities, and it is therefore important to avoid meeting the norm by picking up teachers from smaller schools. It's to bet all over the country. In order to ensure proper compliance with the teaching norm, we need to focus on those who are teachers, but do not work as teachers at school today. Updated data from SSB indicates that about 10 pst. primary school teachers leave school during the first five years. Here, there is the potential for recruiting back to school, and the Left is pleased that there is a commitment to attracting teachers back to the classroom, among others. by investing in several career paths. Those who, after a long absence from school, lack competence in accordance with the new skills requirements must have a separate entrance to continuing training. When high-ranking teachers continue to train, we will have a significant level of professional competence at school. It also has to be reflected in pay. The development of the level of pay of teachers must be assessed in the context of other professions with which it is natural to compare. And to keep graduates in the teaching profession, we also have to look at how they are secured both challenges and follow-up the first time that they learn in the classroom. It can be done through mentoring mechanisms, with closer cooperation between newly-trained and experienced teachers. More training practices will also help to improve mastering and motivation to enter and remain in the teaching role. Bureaucracies and reporting need to be reduced, and closer cooperation between schools and educational institutions through university schools, hospitation schemes and research cooperation needs to be facilitated. Many municipalities are already well-informed to plan to recruit new teachers in connection with the introduction of the teaching norm. There will be a certain competition between municipalities to attract teachers in the years to come, and to contribute to the journey that the school needs, we need to ensure that the growth of newly-trained and recurring educators is large enough. There's a historical commitment to the school and the teaching profession, and there's a big job to do to meet the teacher's norm. The left and the other government parties have made targeted efforts to make the teaching profession attractive through new career paths for teachers, better guidance for fresh teachers, better school management and good continuing training opportunities. In addition, subordinated student loans and saved interest expenditure will help to improve the financial base of newly educated teachers. I agree with the representative of the Christian People's Party: the time has come for an offensive implementation and then an evaluation – rather than an early and time-consuming big-time message.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1488	All children shall meet well qualified teachers in the classroom. Ensuring this is a high priority. We work all the time to ensure that there are enough teachers and that teachers have good professional and pedagogical skills. Teachers bear a heavy responsibility when they meet expectant children and young people. Teachers are trustees for children. They are role models, sources of expertise and often important adults in children’s lives. We therefore make high demands for teachers, both for those who will be teachers, and for the competence of teachers in school, but we also show how valuable we think they are, by insisting that teachers have good career opportunities and development opportunities in school. We want the best applicants for teacher training, and we make strict admission requirements. We have introduced master's degree education for primary school teachers. We have also started work on designing a national framework for a guidance system for newly-trained teachers to help them get a good start to the profession. The system for the cancellation of student loans for teachers is an incentive that will provide teachers with a favourable economic starting point. In order for teachers to become and develop in the profession, we have a record effort in continuing education. We have also introduced more career paths for teachers. Overall, this will lead to better and more teachers. We already see from the year’s candidate number that the partial decrease after the introduction of the four-dimensional requirement in math has turned around. The application for teacher training has increased over time. This year it is very good, also for primary school teacher education for 1st to 7th grade. This is the education that has so far had the most obvious recruitment challenges. This suggests that investing in quality and making demands is motivating for applicants and students. Increased character requirements may also contribute to increased efficiency and higher status of education and profession. We are now seeing a positive development after strengthening the character requirements. We have got more and stronger applicants. At the same time, the number of approved continuing training applications for teachers has never been higher than this year. More than 7 000 teachers are offered further training for the autumn. Studies among participants show that teachers see continuing training as a valuable enhancement of their competence. The number of applicants for continuing training in the Norwegian competence field has increased since last year. The information we have today suggests that those who need immersion in the subjects of Norwegian, math and English will be able to get this by 2025. While the growth in the proportion of unqualified is slowed down, we have a very positive increase in the number of applicants for teacher training. However, access to qualified teachers in some places is challenging. The teacher’s norm can make this more challenging in some places. That is why we are following developments closely and considering ongoing action in line with the challenges we face. We work systematically and systematically to strengthen the recruitment process. However, I have more faith in making the teaching profession attractive than in short-term advertising. The primary responsibility for recruitment must lie with school and kindergarten owners and the university and higher education sectors in cooperation, as is the case with the rest of the world of work. Marit Arnstad called for action to make unqualified teachers qualified. Let me then point to two measures that have been taken. The Ministry of Education has commissioned the Directorate of Education to assess how unqualified at school can receive teacher training. The University of North Norway has been commissioned to develop pilot schemes for the qualification of primary school teachers. These are two very specific measures. One is at the University of Tromsø, and the other is a mission given to the Directorate of Education. Nor is it the case that we are sitting on the whole phase of the action to be taken. We see the proposals that have come from the opposition, and I do not rule out any of these being followed up. But I'm glad that the majority of the population, with the Christian People's Party and the government parties, are now gathering to take action, and not to make another big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1503	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1508	I thank the Council of State for the article. If you read the government statement, you can see that recruiting teachers is not mentioned once. This indicates that this is not where the government plans to put in a massive effort. On the contrary, I think that the pressure both from the opposition and from the Christian People's Party has led to this becoming a more important matter for the government than you really thought. The decision on the standard of teachers made by the parties Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party states that the standard of teaching shall be «seen in conjunction with measures to recruit a sufficient number of qualified teachers» and that «exploration shall be made of how the phase-in of a norm can be carried out without risk of reinforced teaching shortages in parts of the country». I'm not sure if we've got an investigation into how it can be carried out without getting an enhanced teaching shortage in parts of the country. I have heard some people, including from the government parties, suggest that there should be a plan for recruitment. It sounds to the councils that you think you've come with much of what you can bring with you. I want to ask, is it so that we can expect the government to come up with a comprehensive national plan for recruiting teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1515	The government is taking concrete action, and there are actions that we see have an impact. I sit in the hall listening to the representative Martin Henriksen and others from the opposition and wondering on what planet they actually live on. We see that it's going in the right direction. There is an increase in the number of young people who want to be taught. So where the left-hand side sees crisis, young people see opportunities. They see that there is a government in charge of the school, which is betting on the teaching profession – new career paths, five-year masters, record bets on continuing education. Yes, there may be a need for further action to recruit more teachers, but we are more concerned with taking action than with producing even more large-scale messages. We don't have much time. We're busy getting even more good teachers in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1520	Sometimes I've also wondered about the Council of States and I'm on different planets. To the extent that we're on different planets, I think in the opposition we're in a slightly more impatient place than the government is. We are e.g. Very happy that there are several applicants for teacher training. But also last year there were many more applicants for teacher training than there were actually places. Nevertheless, several hundred places stood empty in the fall. So the important thing now is that the job is done now, so that you fill up the places of teacher training. We do not yet know what the situation will be like for the harvest. One of the proposals put forward by the opposition is a national recruitment campaign, among other things. in order to obtain concrete measures to increase the status of the teaching profession, to increase the number of people in the profession and to complete more, inter alia. following the model of the Stoltenberg government with the GNIST campaign and the GLED campaign for kindergarten, with good results. I would like to hear whether the Minister of Knowledge will reject or be open to such recruitment campaigns – what he called short-term advertising stunts, which are actually something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1527	Such campaigns, or targeted work, happen. Together with State Councillor Iselin Nybø, I have been with teacher students who are out among the students and visit the secondary schools and tell them both with sparks and joy about why young people should choose the teaching profession. I have faith in that. That is why we have also announced that there will be more money for this in the revised national budget. Because we see that when the teachers are out and tell about all the opportunities in the teaching profession, it helps to increase teacher recruitment. We will continue that kind of action. But then I have to ask when the representative Henriksen says he is impatient. Well, what has been the Labour Party's answer so far is lowering the demands. This government has high ambitions for Norwegian school. You want a big message. We will take action that will contribute to more qualified teachers and that more people will choose the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1532	If there's one thing the council is good at repeating, it's that you have high ambitions for the school. It also has the opposition and the Workers' Party. I'm going to say that those ambitions are higher. Among other things, eight proposals have been made in this case today to increase recruitment to the teaching profession. Government parties don't go into one of them. I do not understand why it should be so difficult to see actions for recruitment in the context and do as when you had the GNIST campaign that you focused on the status, improved quality of education, in the teaching profession and in the school management and increased recruitment to the teaching profession and teacher training – see it in context and have an overall campaign for it. Nor do I understand why measures such as providing guidance or teaching and teaching students can take lessons at school, or many of the other measures promoted by the opposition are difficult for governments to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1537	When it comes to teaching and teaching students being able to take temporary courses, of course they can. But they will still be included in the unqualified statistics, so if you're involved in the statistics, it won't be an action. But I think that could be a good measure. It is a good step that those studying in the teaching profession can also take temporary courses in school. We don't have to vote in favour of a proposal from the Workers' Party in order to do what you can actually do today. No, the Labour Party does not have high ambitions for schools, teachers and students. On the contrary, this spring has now been used to argue against the requirements of competence set by the government. You've wanted to reverse this, because you were worried about the teacher's crisis. And then we see that that's the exact opposite that happens. Now we see that the number of people applying for the teaching profession is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1544	Governments refer to LEARNING MOD and SSB’s forward-looking teacher coverage projections. This refers to teacher stock as the number of employed and educated teachers in the early years, as well as to students in various teacher training courses. Different sizes are calculated, such as employment shares and annual works. The stock of teachers is based on values from the beginning of the year. These are age-divided, gender-divided, sectorally distributed and educationally divided. It may seem that the impact of skills requirements and the challenges of teacher candidates moving to other professions after completion of education or becoming short-term in the teaching profession are not fully taken into account. Does the State Council believe that the department's calculations are sufficient to ensure that the prospects for recruiting teachers in the future are good and that there will be no shortage of teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1552	The word guarantee shall I be very careful to use from this pulpit. We know that there are challenges. I'm not underestimating it. The teaching norm that we are now going to implement in cooperation with the Christian People's Party will also help us to need more teachers. But what I see is that many young people see the teaching profession as an opportunity. They see that they can get a job almost before they're fully trained. It was engineers and oilworkers who could before. Now we see that it happens among the teachers, so that's good. As far as the computer tool is concerned, I think we still have to see how things can get better. We have GSI and COSTRA, which say something about today's situation. We have a database for statistics on right-wing education and coordinating admissions, which says something about recruiting and conducting teacher studies, and then we have LEARNERMOD, where the next projection comes during the fall of 2018. Then we have to see when those numbers come, and then we also have to see if the statistics can be made even better for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1559	I want to tell the council that I've been 17 years behind a catheter and I've been sitting two years as a principal, so I don't come from another planet. But I come from North Norway, where the situation of unskilled people is critical. But that's not what I was going to spend my time on. 16 pst. all newly educated teachers fall from the profession during the first five years after completion of education. Therefore, last year, SV promoted a proposal adopted unanimously by the Stortinget that all newly-trained teachers should be covered by a guidance system. We know that this is being worked on by the educational students and others, but unfortunately the government has not been willing so far to put money on the table for it. I am afraid that you will see that many teachers in the future do not receive such an offer and that the quality will vary. Can the Minister guarantee that newly-trained teachers in kindergarten and school will be offered an equivalent and good guidance system from the fall of?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1568	First to the numbers: SSB numbers show that for primary school teachers there is a 10 pst turnover. Over the first five years – not 16 p.m., as it was claimed, but 10 p.m. over the first five years. For teacher training there is a tourover at about the same level, so that it is not right what is claimed that newly educated teachers disappear from the profession. Most of them stay, and we'll be happy for that. We're concerned that more people are going to stay, and we're concerned that more people are going to come back. That's one of the reasons why we work with guidance for those who are educated either for kindergarten or for school. That is why we look at new career opportunities for teachers, and that is why we have a record investment in continuing education. It's precisely because teachers should be well received when they start school, and they should have development opportunities while they're in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1573	Today, we are discussing the situation in school given the need for more qualified teachers in both the short and longer term. We all agree that a good school requires qualified, competent teachers. We have some research in this area, both in Norway and internationally, on actions that can work. What kind of new measures does the Council of State see that can have an effect in the short term and be effective in helping to recruit more teachers in primary school, in addition to what is already going on and about which the Council of State informed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1578	We are concerned both with measures that can work in the long term and with measures that can work in the short term. What we know can work in the long term is about the status of the teaching profession and the career opportunities that are in the teaching profession. We believe that we contribute to this both through five-year masters, through the admission requirements of the teaching profession, through the skills requirements of the teaching profession, and long-term measures for continuing education. Then we have strong faith in what is done from universities and colleges. We now contribute resources to universities and colleges so that they, together with the teacher students, can contribute to stronger recruitment to the teaching profession. I think we're going to be a little bit careful sitting in Oslo in a department or big business office and pointing to exactly which action is the best. I have great faith that those who have the shoe, those who are out at universities and colleges, see what works in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1583	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1588	The government is constantly working to ensure that Norwegian schools have sufficient and good teachers in all disciplines and at all levels. There is a broad consensus that Norwegian teachers need a master’s degree to deal with the complexity of Norwegian school life. The master’s degree requirement must also be seen in the context of the ongoing training that the government has put in place in recent years, because it is about the skills needed to deal with the complex issues facing you in the classroom today. For the government, it is important that we think in the long term, and that we think consistently about this with recruitment and empowerment, and that we need to take time to wait for the effect of good and long-term processes, even when some of these measures have a cost in the short term. When qualification and score requirements for admission to general teacher education were introduced in 2005, fewer students were raised for a few years than had been done in the past. What you saw, however, was that the rate of implementation increased, and that trend continued even after the coals began to increase again. Since the entry requirement on grade 4 in mathematics for primary and teacher education was introduced in 2016, the student's character average from secondary school has increased by up to one point. The characterisation of qualified applicants for these courses was well above average in 2016 and 2017 for all students who applied for higher education admission through Coordinated Recording. The character of the lecturer students is approaching the 25 pst. the best students in upper secondary education. In 2015, there was a particularly strong search for these training courses, which also needs to be seen in the context of alerts on increased admission requirements the following year. In 2016, there was thus an expected decline in the applicant figures for primary school teacher education, or GLU, as we often call it. In 2018, the applicant figures for GLU are 1 to 7 at the level of the peak year 2015. The applicant numbers for GLU 5-10 are higher than in 2015. Overall, the year’s number of applicants for teacher training is the highest we have seen in recent times. Universities and higher education institutions are responsible for recruiting their own education. There has been no desire for a national recruitment campaign from there. It also shows that they can dispose of the funds they have for recruitment measures adapted to local circumstances, but they have, of course, appreciated it – they always do – when they receive support from the government. This is a track that we want to follow further, in particular leading to the priority of GLU 1-7, male applicants and applicants with a migrant background. Recruitment is one of the first issues that the National Forum for Teacher Training and Professional Development will have on the table when it is soon established. The deletion of student loans stimulates increased and high-level recruitment and provides good financial conditions for teachers. Means of qualifying those who teach at school without formal teacher training can mean more teachers in a shorter perspective. We are now beginning to see the effect of the government's recruitment and quality gap in teacher training. We believe that actions undertaken both nationally and locally will have an additional impact, but they need time to work. The government is concerned that we have to keep a rough course, and that we have to keep the intensity up in this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1605	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1610	The increase in the number of applicants for primary school teacher training at this year’s Coordinated Recording is joyous, but we must not forget that developments have to be understood in the light of the fact that last year’s search was very poor, after several years of decline. When we also know that about three out of ten primary school teachers fall away during the study, that's not good enough. Then the minister must not forget all the teachers who actively chose not to go to school. If you take these, we see that just about 64 pst. of all newly educated jobs as teachers in school five years later. That's the real recruitment problem in Norwegian school. What will the Council of State do to ensure that those who start elementary school teacher education actually complete the studies and start as teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1617	As the representative also said, there has been an increase in the number of applicants this year. I'm very happy about that, and we certainly share an ambition that we must continue that increase, because we need those teachers. That's why I'm also glad that there's a lot of good work going on locally, that our educational institutions are actively running and recruiting the great young people who are actually snooping at learning. Then, of course, we still have some challenges, and we have to work on this all the way. We have some measures that we have put in place, including: to write down student loans, which we have also targeted at GLU 1-7, not least if they want to settle and work in the northernmost countries. That's something that we hope will also have an effect. In the case of non-response, it is precisely by raising the requirements for getting in, too, to strengthen the possibility of being able to carry out that training — because there is no simple training.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1626	Thanks for the answer. The Labour Party is concerned with diversity and equality in education and society elsewhere. Then I get worried when I see the bias in the search among those who are going to work in primary schools and kindergartens. All children should meet adults of multiple genders in school, and here the Council of State — actually both Councils — has a long canvas to fade. Only 19.5 pst. of the first-choice candidates for pediatric education are men, and there are only a little more – 24,8 pst. – by those applying for primary school teacher training 1-7. We in the Labour Party believe that Norway should develop a national recruitment strategy to ensure a broad and balanced recruitment for higher education. What kind of instruments does the Council of State have to ensure that the smallest children meet male role models in addition to the female ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1636	The representative points to an important challenge, which does not necessarily refer only to the teaching profession. In Norway, we have a relatively gender-based labour market. But it may be particularly alarming about the teaching profession, precisely because the teacher is one of the most important adults in a child's and a youth's life. That is why I was also interested in saying that with regard to the recruitment measures put in place locally, it is important to focus on having more men involved in teacher training – and I would like to mention in particular GLU 1-7 and kindergarten teacher training – but also that we need to have more people with migrant backgrounds. I think it's important that our colleges and universities when they're out recruiting the kids, focus on it, but also that when they get the students in, they work to keep the men they get.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1641	Changes for teacher-profession, such as the admission of teacher-training and thus the provision of advanced training, the completion of teacher-training with a five-year master's degree and subsequent changes in the contents of the study, changes in the requirements of competence with retroactive effect and teacher-standards, measures to convert student debt into scholarships after completion of normal time and, where appropriate, work in North Norway, are among the measures to be taken for recruitment. This is a diversity and collusion of measures put in place by the government. How does the Council of State feel about the context of changes and developments for the teaching profession? And how will she hold on to this in order to ensure good and long-term recruitment to education and to unoccupied positions throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1646	The representative now gives a very good summary of many of the measures taken by the government in recent years. So it's probably that we don't necessarily agree that there are good measures, but I think these are good measures. I believe that it clearly shows the direction in which the government wants to take the teacher training. We want to raise the status. That is why we have arranged for master's education, so that it will be the same level of education for teachers as for other, similar, education. That's why we've been busy writing down student loans and also targeting GLU 1-7, where we need even more, but also against those who choose to live in North Norway, because there we know we're missing more. That's why we've also made demands on those who come in, not least because we need to have the implementation rate up. So I'll say one thing until the end, and it's about this course that you can take if you don't meet the requirement in mathematics. It's an important offer, because it allows more people to qualify, but we also have to work on the quality of that offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1653	That is precisely the point: the compilation of all these proposals, all these measures that the Council of State points to as good, poses questions to the Central Party about the effect of, the long-term effect, which the Council of State also has in mind. Can it not be possible to draw up a Storing Message and to provide a better overview of the long-term effects and recruitment of the teaching profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1658	Some of the measures we have put in place will not be effective until later. Among other things, writing down student loans is quite new. Since then, we have seen an increase in the number of applicants for teacher training, but this does not necessarily relate to the write-down of the student loan. These are important measures that are long-term and that we will see the effect of later. This government is committed to implementing, and that is precisely why we have put these measures in place. I believe that each of these measures is important. At the same time, I am concerned that we might now sit down and say that we have introduced some new important measures, now we need to see if they work. We have to work all the way to get better. And just to finish what I started, it's with this advanced course: the universities and colleges that have this offer, go by themselves: how do we increase the quality of it? How do we get the implementation rate up? Are we good enough today? And if not, what do we do to get better?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1665	Teacher shortages are high, and in some disciplines they are more critical than in others. In order to ensure that the schools get enough competent teachers in the practical-esthetic subjects, the Stortinget decided for a short time that the government should ensure that the bachelor in practical-esthetic subjects should qualify for admission to practical-pedagogical education, PPU. It is therefore with great wonder that I have registered that the department carries out a hearing as if nothing has happened. Can the Council of State assure the Council that the Bachelor's degree in practical-esthetic subjects qualifies for admission to the PPU and that this applies to all subjects covered by the term «practical-esthetic subjects» and to all teaching places where this training is offered?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1672	It is true that this has been sent out to the hearing, and would like to focus on what is going on in the field of sport in particular. It is not that the Ministry has not taken the decision of the Stortinget, and a Council of State must always deal with the decisions of the Stortinget. I would nevertheless say that I disagree with the decision taken by the Stortinget. What worries me about that decision are several things. First of all, you make a two-threaded one among the teachers. Then most have a master's degree, and those who are going to teach practical-pedagogical subjects have a bachelor's degree. This will mean that you get pay differentials between the two groups of teachers, you will get teachers who can teach only in one subject and are therefore less attractive as teachers than teachers who could have taught in several subjects. I am also a little concerned about how the development of skills will be for that group of teachers when they have to compete with higher-level teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1679	Different types of decentralised teacher training have been carried out over a number of years, not least in order to recruit more teachers in the districts. This has proved to be measures that have really managed to recruit teachers who would not otherwise have chosen to take teacher training, thus helping to meet the need for qualified teachers in areas to which it has traditionally been difficult to recruit. To what extent will the Council of State consider decentralised education as one of the measures to increase the number of qualified teachers and, where appropriate, to ensure that teacher training institutions provide places of study for this type of teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1684	Decentralised education can be a good measure, and it can be important not least, as the representative also says, to get those who live in the districts and who still want to live in the districts to become teachers. Now it's the educational institutions themselves that have a responsibility for how they set up their education. I am concerned that the social mission they have, among other things. is about delivering good candidates to important professions in the region to which they are soccer. I also feel that our educational institutions, both universities and colleges, are just concerned that they should deliver good candidates to the labour market where they are. So I think this might be a good measure. I expect and expect our colleges and universities to also assess this when they're going to train teachers for their region.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1693	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1700	The Labour Party has long warned that the government is heading for a serious teaching shortage. We have proposed a number of measures to reverse developments and address this serious problem. State Council Sanner was concerned about making the teaching profession more attractive. Then I have a good tip for him: One of the very basic steps that we think should be taken is to start running the school based on trust instead of the rigid and little-needed control that the teachers are now calling out to warn about. There's got to be another reverse operation. Anne Grönlie, with 25 years of experience in the teaching profession, began a much shared chronicle in Agenda Magasin with: «Now I recommend no one to go the teacher’s way any more.» She put her finger on what many teachers agreed to. She wrote: ‘We have a system in which politicians, bureaucrats, researchers and consultants have developed common ideas that they need to direct teachers to do a decent job.’ It was a system that she thought was destructive, and that made her job unfree. Professor Groenlie had many suggestions for improvements, but ended up placing responsibility where it belongs: in this assembly and in the municipal governments of the country. She appeals to us who are elected: ‘Dear politicians, this began — and hopefully ends — with you. We owe the future to reverse development now." [[...]] The working party understands that. We can't have a school run in such a way that experienced teachers advise others not to go into what's really the most important profession of all. In order to recruit more teachers, the teaching profession must not just be attractive, it must be attractive. And then teachers have to experience freedom of action. The Labour Party will introduce a trust reform in the school and will send a clear and clear message that we trust that teachers can do a decent job without detailed management. Give the teacher confidence, respect and time to do his important job. We want a school that gives teachers more time for the students, shows more confidence in the teachers and takes into account the school's community's mission to educate whole people. In this way, I hope that more experienced teachers will recommend that others go on the teaching path – whether it is by taking up teacher training, or whether it is going back to the teaching profession. We owe that to both the teachers and the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1720	I am very pleased with today's important debate on recruiting teachers, but disappointed by the outcome of the case. The Central Party believes that we need a better school across the country. The municipalities and the school leaders need confidence to do the school well. Teachers need room for action and time for teaching. The students need a school adapted to them instead of adapting to school, and the students need teachers. The centre party believes the recruitment of teachers needs both immediate action and a roll-out message. The changes for teacher prophecy have been enormous during today's government. Recording to the teacher's education, which now requires a four-wayer in mathematics, no matter what subject you have, now has a fire extinguisher with an advance course. The completion of teacher training now takes five years, and its implementation is all the harder, with master’s degree and other content. The government extinguishes fires with the conversion of debt into scholarships. Those who practice the teaching profession today have received their professional pride challenged by the demands of competence with retroactive effect. The patch on the wound shall be a teacher’s norm. Recruitment measures of 10 million. kr and conversion of student debt into scholarships after work in North Norway shall also address recruitment challenges in northern parts of the country. But the question is, does this mean that fewer fall from education or that more enter the teaching profession after completing education? The exposure and feedback have been overwhelming. The teacher's prophecy is moving. School-Norway is moving. The centre party feels that the link between change and development for the teaching profession and ensuring good recruitment for education and unaccompanied jobs throughout the country is not transparent. Unfortunately, there is also uncertainty about the calculations made over the projections and prospects for recruitment. How good is the relationship between effort and dividends or gain? Does the requirements that are imposed correspond to the rights that students and teachers have? Even after today's debate, many questions are unanswered. The centre party wants a big message. The center party thinks we need a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1740	The right is still in love with the teacher, and there are also several who work as they are, because now we have the highest number of applicants we have in recent times: one in ten applicants will be teachers, and that is absolutely amazing. And we're going to do even more, because this is a problem, but we're starting to see that the government's long-term policy to make the teaching profession and teacher training more attractive actually works. It also makes the opposition – in a way – argument of crisis here today quite hollow and really just an attempt to tackle important issues in the Teacher Lift. For the way the opposition argues, it seems that the only solution, other than to ask the government to come back with action, is to eliminate professional requirements for teachers, both for those who will be, and for those who are teachers. It may be the right medicine in the short term, if you want more adults into school, but it's not the right medicine in the long term, if you want to raise the status of the teaching profession and invest in the basic wall in school. When Kristin Clemet proposed the 3rd recording requirement under the Bondevik II government, it was very controversial at the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. Today, no one is proposing to remove it, even though, according to the arguments of the representative Arnstad, we have also missed out on thousands of potential teachers. Because it's a little bit important to see past your own nose tip, have some ice in your stomach and some visions for your profession. Such visions of the profession are seen in other parts of society. When the government recently introduced the grade 3 in math and Norwegian to become a nurse, Norsk Nursing Association and the students cheered, although they also need more colleagues. The nurses' association is just saying that it will increase the level of implementation, that it signals that nursing is a subject that requires good basic knowledge, and that it will enhance the quality of education. This is certainly true of the teaching profession. If the teaching profession is to be attractive, the quality of the study must be good. When the students are out in practice, they must experience being part of a professional community with other qualified teachers with professional immersion, and when they are fully trained, they must enter a profession where there is the possibility to go different career paths, take further training and have a professional space for using new research. It is a little strange that in this debate the representatives of the Central Party are talking about a very big problem with teaching standards – a standard of teaching which they opted for, a standard of teaching which they suggested in the previous period, a standard of teaching which they even wrote in an annotation form in 2017 ‘will reduce teacher mobility from Norwegian classrooms’. So a teacher's norm that they themselves opted for, they are now pushing ahead when they argue to reduce professional requirements and professional opportunities for teachers, and I think that's the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1752	We need more teachers. We do that by betting on the profession, and that's what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1755	When you listen to the government parties, they're really saying everything's going to be okay. It's a pleasure that more students are applying for teacher training, but the government really does take their mouths too full when they try to vent the teaching shortage in school. Over several years, we have had a negative development, especially for teacher training for childhood, and the joyous increase we are now seeing is from a low level. The important thing is how many of those who are qualified who actually get into teacher training. Also last year and the year before there were many more who applied for teacher training than who came in, and hundreds of places were empty. The important thing is how many actually start school and start working as teachers. Today is 64 pst. of those who have trained teachers, in school five years later. So we lose a lot. We also have too many unqualified people in school. If it doesn't improve this, yes, we have a teaching shortage. It is quite alarming that the Sanner Government Council – in a case where the opposition, including the Workers' Party, will more than the government parties and have higher ambitions – accuses, among other things. The working party for making ambitions. He said that the Workers' Party does not have high ambitions for the school, the teachers and the students, because the Workers' Party is opposed to the separation of experienced teachers and would rather use other means, and because we have proposed to investigate other admission requirements. First of all, this is very cheap rhetoric, even from a government council. Secondly, the Right is accusing those who believe the same thing as the Workers' Party, of having ambitions on behalf of the school. Has the Association of Education and the National Association of Schools – those representing the majority of teachers at school – done so? Do the Pedagogists — those who want to dedicate their lives to the teaching profession — have that? Does the National Council for Teacher Training have low ambitions on behalf of teacher training when they propose exactly the same thing as the Workers' Party? No, they have solutions other than Right and State Council Sanner. That the government is showing this kind of arrogance to others, whether it's parties or those involved in the sector, is sad, but it's also significant, because there's no lack of good ideas and action to address the teaching shortage. But the government chooses not to listen. There is a long menu of good actions that can be taken to combat teaching shortages, increase attractiveness and give teachers more room for action. It's just asking those who are engaged in the sector. Together, the Education Students, the Educational Association, the School Managers, the Parental Committee for Primary Education, the KS, the National Council for Teacher Education, the Lecturer Team and many other thoughts and very concrete input into teacher recruitment, and we're very good at listening to them. The parties to the Government will not even have their own hearing on this matter. That's why we, the red-greens, put our own hearing together. The sector met, we listened, and many of the most important measures they wanted are proposed here in the Chamber today. One of those we do not propose here, but as we get to debate later, is about a reform of trust for the school. It is absolutely vital for students' learning and well-being that there are enough teachers in school and that they are shown confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1770	I had to use my first post today to describe the serious situation we have with the teaching shortage in Norwegian school. I now note, after the debate, that it was well spent time. However, I had little time to talk about the concrete proposals that we have put into this matter. There are in particular three measures I would like to highlight, three concrete proposals that could have helped to alleviate the serious situation. Firstly, SV is the only party that raises pay and working conditions as an important tool for recruitment. If we are to ensure enough qualified teachers who want to work at school, who apply there, and who – last but not least – want to stay there, they must feel that they have a framework that ensures good professional performance. If we are to achieve goals, politicians must also dare to say straight away that the level of pay for teachers needs to be raised. I expect the government to use all the tools available, and not just point to the responsibility of the parties. Furthermore, SV has a concrete proposal to extend the grant schemes and the area for the write-down of student loans after completion of teacher training. If the government has faith in this measure – and they say it has been successful – we would have hoped that they might be able to continue and extend the measure. Finally, I would like to say something about the guidance system for newly educated teachers. This mechanism is important to prevent many newly educated teachers from leaving after a few years. So we've added 200 million. kr for this in our alternative state budget. The Christian People's Party is also involved in this comment and has it in its alternative state budget. But that they cannot take part in this proposal is very disappointing. Is this to vote in favour of the proposals they are in favour of and against the proposals they are against? I understand that this is even in the Christian People's Party's programme, and then it's hard to understand why they can't vote for this one, concrete proposal, which would relieve the situation and help newly educated students stay in the profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1781	What made me take the floor was the post of the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde. I'll come back to that a little bit. In sum, it seems to me that this debate is being conducted, by the government, a little after the slogan "que sera, sera", that is, that what happens, it happens – we are not investigating anything more, we are crossing our fingers and hoping for the best, and so far we can be confident that there is a high search, and we hope that in the years to come there will be no difficulties either. That's exactly what worries some of us, that we think there are some underlying features associated with the teacher recruitment now that are difficult. And then we're going to have to disagree about the four requirements in mathematics. The center party thinks it's unwise. I've never said that we've lost thousands of students, but I say we've already lost almost a thousand motivated teacher students because of the 4th requirement. I'm not saying there's no requirement for teacher students, and you don't have to make demands on the status of the studies, but I'm saying that an average of the grades will be better than a four-dimensional requirement. What made me take the floor was the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde and her comments on the Center Party and the teaching norm. No, the Center Party has never agreed to a teacher's norm without it being determined in advance. Our proposal was just to establish a teacher's norm. There are no parties that are opposed to teacher density – the centre party is also for increasing teacher density – but we need to identify such a major reform before we possibly implement it. It's about big effects, it's about billions of dollars to get it done. The Ministry of Knowledge's own figures, to which we were given access last autumn, have shown that implementing such a standard of teaching gives a very strong impact on regional policy. It can't be ignored. One can't just suddenly — three or four months afterwards — ignore it. One actually has to relate to it. Introducing such a teaching standard at a time when teachers are under-represented as such, especially in the districts, is pure risk sport. I think it's going to lead to major challenges in many of the country's municipalities, in the 170 municipalities that are not going to see one penny of the billion that might be in the 2019 budget. Many of these municipalities already have an undercoverage of qualified teachers — and they must therefore also have greater competition, against the big cities, about a teaching power resource that is already undercover. That this teaching norm has not been established is completely incomprehensible and cannot be in line with the government's own investigation instruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1794	After hearing the debate here, I have the feeling that in the political game you're willing to push school owners, schools and students in front of you in a really unintentive rhetoric. Because if we look at the proposal that is before us on the table here today, which is to be discussed later today, through voting, it is almost nothing new among the eight proposals. You send the ball back to the government – more or less. Then we call for a big message that will draw this far out in time, and that in reality will bring nothing but a process of investigation, rather than putting resources into the measures we have seen to be effective. The government has already implemented many measures such as: helps to reduce the proportion of unskilled students in school. It is about, among other things: scholarships to take practical education, PPU, and it is a mission that has also been given to the Directorate of Education to look at further arrangements of these instruments. We know of very many who have master’s education — and are by definition unqualified — who fill with pedagogical competence and qualify for teaching positions along the way. We have, as we have been through several times here, a number of grant schemes, support schemes, recruitment measures and other things that have made us see more applicants now – actually the best applicants in recent times. I think we should notice that. There is no doubt that when we know that the same candidate population has such a good character basis – the figures I saw, show that we are now getting closer to the fact that the lecturer students have about 25 pst. Of the best characteristics of the candidate mass, it says something about the fact that the grips we are now taking are involved in raising this status. It is by also having master's education that you raise the basic salary, that you help more people to become teachers, that the students are so good that they have a much greater chance of completing in normal time. As I've been talking about, it's not a point with a high number of applicants if you have a high degree of non-response. The point is how many actually perform by the applicants. I think again there's getting a little weird in this debate. We stand and shadow boxes between a big message and nothing – really – concrete alternative to government policy. I think it's pretty hollow, all the time it's used quite strong terms here, like "crisis" and other. In the case of an example that Arnstad drew up here at the end, that you are opposed to the four-claim, but not that there is a requirement: No, but then you are not concerned about which students you, theoretically, lose. This is just a wide range of different actions, which really do not provide an alternative to government policy. [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1809	Talida's out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1814	Poor recruitment to the teaching profession is a major and serious social problem, as it is strange and somewhat alarming that the government does not seem to take over, nor does it really address itself. Several alarm clocks have been ringing, and it should be high time that the Council of State listened to the sector and responded. Instead, we experience that the Sanner Council is standing here and in a way indirectly accuses key actors in the sector of having too low ambitions for the school. That's the consequence of what he says. I heard Gudmundsen from the Right urging to lift his eyes. I can calm down that I often tend to do it. I looked a little bit at England, where you can now see how serious it can be when the conservatives don't take the necessary action. There the teachers leave the classrooms in record numbers. The conservative government is accused of not showing the will or ability to solve the critical teaching shortage. An independent public body came in January this year with sharp criticism from the Ministry of Education in England of neither having foreseen the teacher crisis nor taking active preventive action to avoid it. It is not that we can compare Norway and the United Kingdom directly, but it is that a government should generally not put its head in the sand. That is why I believe that the example from England can serve as a warning for the future management of the teacher crisis in Norway. We can't let what's now happening in School-Norway go unattended. We cannot allow Norwegian school to be passively run against a serious shortage of teachers. That is why I hope for a majority of the opposition's proposals and for a more open and active attitude from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1823	I think the debate today has clearly come up with a situation that shows a great deal of agreement that there is a lack of qualified teachers, and that there is a need for more action to get more teachers in the future. I would just like to say, for my part, that many of the proposals that have been presented in the matter should certainly be considered as part of the measures to be and should be implemented. Then it is that proposals that have financial implications must be launched in the context of the budget and backed up in the budget. The fact that the Christian People's Party has not gone for a mentoring arrangement for newly educated teachers today is not that we have changed our mind, but it is a matter that needs to be put into budgetary context, and that is something we would like to come back to. With the eagerness shown today, I would say that future teachers should look forward to the future. Many good tools have been mentioned to attract more teachers to school, and we look forward to implementation. In this context, I would like to mention again what I think is one of the most important of all the tools that have been mentioned, and it is the introduction of a teaching standard that gives each teacher more time for each student. It's about creating a work situation that makes it possible not only to do the job you're assigned to, but also to experience that the individual student is seen, not just as one who needs to have knowledge of a few subjects, but also as a whole person.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1830	I just want to point out once again that the Central Party's entrance to the recruitment of teachers is that we need a proper round, that we need a well-worked big-time message, where we look at the long-term effects and the sum of the measures. The centre party, the Working Party and SV had a hearing with full attendance and good commitment. Several of the points raised in the debate here today were also quite clearly answered there, and I feel like pointing out some of them, among others. that several of the governmental parties are pushing the recruitment of the teachers as a symptom of this success. But the hearing made it quite clear that we do not have a teacher’s lack but a teacher’s lack. The main focus must be on implementation, on those applying for the profession and on those staying in the profession. I have shown myself to several of those who I have attended class at the lecturer's training who get a so-called professional shock when they get into the real everyday life, where you are a contact teacher, have a lot of subjects and tasks up under the ears that you should throw around and keep up with. This applies not least to the specific follow-up of each individual student, who is so keen to do well and well as a newly educated teacher. Then it's fast done that you dig around in the water and feel that you can't reach it. Now the government is working with the Education students to find a solution when it comes to mentoring. There, the opposition really hopes that this work will lead, and we will definitely contribute and press on, so that we can get a good mentoring system that will ensure that these teachers are taken good care of when they get into the teaching profession, so that they are motivated to continue to stand on for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1842	It was the representative Henriksen who made me make a new post, because he claims that the government parties do not belong to the sector, among other things. Because we didn't have a hearing. I think one should be so honest as to say that a plan of progress had been adopted, which was, in the last analysis, very little wanted to be changed to include a hearing on a Friday, including. I had two agreements with primary schools in Oslo and didn't want to cancel it. To also be out in primary schools to talk to the teachers makes you get recorded. So fair I think you should be. In fact, I believe that very many of the measures the government has taken are just about getting more teachers to complete both teacher training and to be longer in school. And that's based on the input we've got. Now, when we introduce the incentive scheme with the Loan Fund, it's just based on the input we've got from the sector. Now, when we're giving more funds to the local recruitment program, it's because it's this sector and the universities and colleges have wanted it. Once we have tripled further education, introduced five-year master's education, based on the quality of education, this is based on sector input. Now that we are working on national guidance guidelines for graduates, it is also based on sector input, especially from the Pedagogical Students, who have said a lot about how important it is to have good guidance when you get out — whether it is practical or suddenly being a contact teacher in a classroom, completely re-trained. This is the input we got from the sector. We do a lot, and all the government parties have worked a lot on this challenge and got a lot of input. We don't need a big message to implement it; we're implementing it now. It's a challenge, but we now see that the numbers are moving in the right direction, and it must be possible to be happy, without even more crisis maximisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1851	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1856	There is nothing new in the opposition proposals, says the representative Gudmundsen. State Council Jan Tore Sanner says on his side that he will not rule out that the government will pick from the menu of opposition action. It's tempting to call it winging. What at least is not winging, which the government does not fold – or wings – an inch, is the attitude they have toward everyone else: either you are for my demands for, for example, the teacher training, or you are against all requirements. Either you agree with the government that they do a brilliant job of recruitment, or then they paint black and they do crisis maximisation. Let's ignore the fact that when the red-green parties had a hearing, it was almost not a single word that was uttered from those who were there – the Association of Education, Norsk Lektorlag, the Parental Committee for Primary Education, the Pedagogical Students and others – that we did not have a teaching shortage in school, or that there had to be much stronger responses to the teaching shortage. Can we avoid the shortage of teachers? Yes, but it requires a completely different effort from those we have set to do the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1865	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1881	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1890	Today, we are discussing the Ministry of Justice and Defence's proposals for changes to the Verjemålslaw and the law on missing persons. The protective measure legislation shall reflect the need for special legal protection for those who are able to protect themselves to a small extent. The protection objective shall ensure that persons who need it, support and assistance to make legal arrangements and to have access to their funds. In order for the system to function according to its purpose, it is an important requirement that a reliable and reliable relationship be established between the place and the person who has been named a place. The proposition shall relate to proposals for the regulation of the right to provide evidence from the adjudicating guardians of the relationships covered by the obligations under the protection of the protection of property. Some adjustments are made to the rules on exemptions from the obligations for listed protection structures and for the protection regime. In addition, the proposal contains certain specific rules for consent in cases where the person with the unit is a minor. In addition, it is proposed that offences on the payroll obligation should be penalised for permanent workers. In the proposition, it is proposed to change the rule of death penalty when there is no reason to doubt that a person is dead. Judgment, which corresponds to the word «knowledge» of a bookcase, is an expression of judicial decisions which are not a judgment but which terminate the case or are an independent part of the case. An order is given in the court hearing and shall be the groundwork. In this case, it is proposed to create a special legal basis for dealing with matters which are currently dealt with by applying the law on lost persons under Section 8. The purpose is to facilitate the proper handling of cases where a person associated with Norway has died abroad and where there is no evidence sufficient to register the person as dead in the Norwegian population register. I note that a joint committee supports the proposals, both in terms of changes in the law on defence and the law on missing persons, and would finally like to thank the Cooperation Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1903	The Working Party endorses the overall position of the Committee and the statement by the rapporteur. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party will underline the vulnerability of the protection scheme, which arises when a person is appointed. The size must at all times be particularly sensitive to this vulnerable situation, and the possible disincentive to, in particular, adult persons who are granted mandates may be exposed to. We record that the stakeholder organisation for this group continues to point out both ethical and practical issues that may arise in the wake of the protection system and its practice. It must therefore always be of great importance that the Storting monitor and ensure that fundamental human rights are respected also against persons in this system. The legal certainty of the individual person with assigned vigilance may obviously be vulnerable and vulnerable. It must be an objective that the law is adapted to this situation in such a way that legal certainty for individuals is ensured in the best possible way. The national audit report on the scheme highlights a number of issues and challenges. Among other things, the report points to the role of the County Council in facilitating a well-adapted mandate. This must be followed up so as to enable the County to carry out this task in a good manner. The National Audit Office’s report also points to the lack of adequate training for digestibility. Training of cooks can be a good tool to ensure that the breeder can carry out his/her task as well as possible and in line with the intended role. The importance of good systems of supervision and control of the protection system is also recognised. According to the report, this is not good enough today. The National Audit Office’s report is an important tool to ensure that the Storting decision is properly followed up. The report is now under consideration by the Control and Constitutional Committee. Furthermore, it will be of great importance that the Ministry and the Government also follow up this report in a good and appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1916	I am pleased that a joint committee supports the proposal in the motion for a resolution on changes to the Code of Civil Protection and the Law on Disappeared Persons. As the Committee also points out, protective legislation reflects the need for special legal protection for those who are able to protect themselves to a small extent. It shall ensure that persons in need of it, support and assistance to dispose of legal and own resources. The consideration of individual self-determination, dignity and integrity is central. Vergestålslegislation helps to fulfil Norway’s obligations under international law to ensure that disabled persons receive the support and assistance they need in order to exercise their legal capacity. The bill on the prohibition of evidence for nominees reflects a balance between important conflicting considerations. The challenge for the legislator is to find a good balance point. Facilitating the individual to have a trusting and confidential relationship with his or her spouse is an important prerequisite for the functioning of the protection scheme. I'm glad that an overall committee shares that view. Individuals with swords are a complex and heterogeneous group. With the bill, we make it possible for individuals to be familiar with conveying their own wishes and preferences to their peers and to be open about their own level of functioning and the need for assistance. Such confidentiality is again central to the proper performance of the commitment and the support function. At the same time, the involvement of hearing bodies underlines the need to clarify the issue of access to evidence by appointed authorities on matters covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. With the bill, we meet this need. The legislative changes will also help to better align the exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy of nominated creditors with the protection authorities and the underlying considerations behind the exemptions. I appreciate the fact that the majority of the committee expressly supports this. I am also pleased that we are being provided with an appropriate treatment for cases where a person related to Norway has died abroad and where there is no evidence to be provided that is accepted to register the person who died here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1927	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1932	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, as I mentioned in my statement, has to deal with the National Audit Office's report on the protection system. Does the Council of State consider that the Riksrevision findings are serious, and in what way will the Council of State follow up the feedback from the report?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1937	Of course, we will follow up the feedback from Stortinget's treatment. But now the matter is under discussion in Stortinget, and I will not prejudge what the committee is doing. Anyway, I think it's important that we have good training. I think it is important that we let those who are exposed to military action be heard. Then you better come back to how this is followed up in practice. There is also reason to mention that the supervisory responsibility lies with the State, which reports to another minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1944	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1962	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given to alternates of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1971	I am pleased to say that we are now discussing a position on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation. This is an important convention, and it is very nice that Norway now adheres to it. Worldwide, almost two million children are victims of commercial sexual exploitation. Only in Norway does Kripos estimate that 50,000 Northmen have a sexual attraction against children. This results both in direct abuse and in a type of live streaming, directly transmitted child abuse. So it's very good that we now get a convention that ensures children better against this. The purpose of the Convention is to prevent and combat, but also to promote national and international cooperation against such abuses. The Convention also provides for a guarantee of criminalisation obligations, by which Norway is now bound. The obligations here are not only about commercial exploitation of children, but also about sexual activities with minors, such as rape, incest, etc. – even if they are not commercial, they are affected by the Convention. We also have expectations that the Convention will combat so-called sex tourism. The Convention shall have a preventive effect. It has assistance and support measures for the victims, but also measures for the sexual offenders. It is important to say that Norway signed this Convention more than 10 years ago in 2007. As of today, 47 countries have ratified it. Norway has therefore waited to ratify the Convention until all legislative changes have been harmonised with the requirements of the Convention. It's now in place. The only critical thing I can say about this, however, is that it has taken a very long time – more than ten years – which several governments have to take responsibility for. A number of European countries have ratified the Convention much earlier. There is no doubt that this is not due to resistance or reluctance, but I am anxious that as long as time use can be read from other European countries as Norway has had a low level of involvement in the case. I don't think that's necessary. In the future, the Government should endeavour to implement ratifications of this type of severity as quickly as possible. Although it has taken a long time, an overall committee expresses satisfaction at the ratification of the Convention and that all requirements have been met. The legislative changes to meet the Convention’s requirements — both in terms of investigation, criminal prosecution and procedural matters — are in place. With the ratification, we also place ourselves in a position where Norway has both the right and the obligation to ensure that other Convention partners comply with the Convention. So this is not just about what we do in Norway, but also about how we handle this internationally. Thus, ratification is important to us, but it is also important to work on this internationally. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee. It's been a very simple collaboration, we've been very much in agreement with this work, so this has gone very smoothly. It's very, very nice, because it's been an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e1990	This has taken a long time, too long, but now the convention is here. This is a convention that establishes comprehensive, comprehensive legislation to prevent and combat sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children. It is of great importance that we now have a convention, with extended criminalisation obligations and extensive jurisdictional provisions, such as: to help combat sex tourism. The Convention shall promote national and international cooperation against abuse. Sexual abuse of children knows no borders. Through the Internet, people sell their children to pedophiles, and the attackers can sit anywhere in the world and order the attack there and then. There is a need for a comprehensive international instrument to combat this type of crime, which includes: to facilitate monitoring mechanisms. The Convention also has articles on prevention, professional secrecy – which should not prevent alerting – and relief measures for both victims and offenders. The aim is to reduce the risk of repeated criminal offences. This is a good convention, which we ask for the Stortinget to ratify.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2001	I am pleased to present the proposal for consent to the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. I am also pleased that the Judicial Committee has unanimously advised the Stortinget to consent to the ratification of the Convention. The purpose of the Convention is to prevent and combat all forms of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children, to protect the rights of children who are victims of abuse, and to promote national and international cooperation against such abuses. It is important that Norway supports international efforts to ensure the protection of children against this type of infringement by ratifying the Convention. The Convention establishes comprehensive and comprehensive legislation to prevent and combat sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children. In particular, I would like to stress that the Convention obligations are not limited to infringements that typically occur in a commercial context. Sexual activities with minors, rape, incest, etc. are also included outside the commercial context. Furthermore, the Convention establishes extended criminalisation obligations compared to other instruments in the area of which Norway is bound. The Convention shall also contribute to combating so-called sex tourism through sufficiently extensive jurisdictional provisions. The Convention also provides for a wide range of prevention, assistance and support measures for victims and measures against sexual offenders. In order to ensure compliance with the Convention, a separate monitoring mechanism is provided. Norway signed the Convention when it was opened for signature on 25 October 2007. The Convention entered into force on 1 July 2010. Work on Norwegian ratification has been conducted by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. At the time of signature, it was considered that the implementation of the Convention would require some legislative changes, which in turn led to the Norwegian side having to wait for ratification. The necessary legislative changes have now been implemented. Firstly, changes were made in the entry into force of the new penal code in order to comply with the Convention’s requirements in the field of criminal law. Secondly, legislative changes have been made to meet the requirements of the Convention for investigations, criminal prosecution and procedural legislation. The other obligations of the Convention relate to the territories of several departments and all relevant departments have been involved in assessing compliance with these obligations. The conclusion of this work is that Norway is assumed to fulfil also the other obligations arising from the Convention. The Convention on the Protection of Children From Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse can therefore be ratified without requiring further legislative changes. The Convention is assumed to be a matter of particular importance, so that the consent of the Grand Duchy to ratification is necessary in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2018	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2034	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given to alternates of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2043	Today, a unanimous judicial committee is in favour of clarifying that persons with their own gender expressions should also be protected against hateful expressions and discrimination. An important part of our job as a wholesaler is to fix the law when we get over holes and missing. This time it is the Workers' Party that deserves tribute for having found such a hole and been fast on the ball to get a proposal that we can all of course put behind us. I think it is a quality sign that so many people were so fast out there and declared support for the proposal. It is actually as banal as that the Workers' Party got up a little earlier in the morning than what I myself managed this day. I had an appointment with a journalist to propose exactly what the Workers' Party has done here. Fortunately, it shows that we have been many who have wanted to address this issue. Of course, the most important thing is not media talk and stayed about ourselves, but that it is adopted good politics, and it is here today. The government is now reviewing criminal law protection and is planning to send it to the hearing in a very short time, and there should be an excellent opportunity to review legislation and improve rules. Discrimination and hateful expressions are a major problem for more minorities today. In our country, people should be free to have an orientation and a gender identity of their choice and be able to express this freely. Should anyone react hatefully to this, it is right to meet that kind of attitude with strict reactions. Finally, I just want to clarify briefly why we from the Right are not going to join in solving the proposal of the Green Party on covering all sexual orientations. I would like to make it clear that there are undoubtedly good intentions behind that proposal, but it has for me an unclear range and some unclear possible consequences. Firstly, it is not certain that all the briefings should have or need such a protection of the law. Secondly, you can get blind very quickly, in a desire to give all categories, all directions and all people a protection of the law, and then you suddenly find yourself in the situation that inflation has gone on, and that what should be rights for everyone is suddenly not rights for anyone. It is about the effectiveness of the protection of the law. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its work on the matter. I am very pleased that we can stand together on the intention and work to get a good and ever better protection of discrimination in our legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2058	We are now considering a proposal from the representatives of Anette Trettebergstuen, Kari Henriksen, Masud Gharahkhani, Lene Vågslid, Jan Bøhler and myself to extend the provisions of the penal code on hateful expressions, hate crime and discrimination to include hateful expressions made or discrimination carried out on account of a person's gender or gender identity. First, I would like to say that I am very pleased that this proposal has a majority, although the reasons may appear somewhat different, and I am grateful for the honor given by the rapporteur on the matter. I am going to give some of the reasons for the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have taken into account. We believe that violence must be fought harder just because you are who you are. It is about democratic core values such as equality, security and freedom of expression. A society based on the principle that all people are equivalent must take hate-motivated violence and discrimination seriously. Persons who violate social norms on gender identity have a protection against discrimination in the equality and discrimination laws, but the protection of criminal law against discrimination is to make hateful statements and to discriminate against someone because of their skin color, their national or ethnic origin, their religion or outlook on life, their homosexual orientation or their disability is punishable. This means that it is possible to punish people today if they discriminate against someone because they are gay, but not if they discriminate against someone because they express themselves in a way that exceeds their gender. This means that homosexuals, but not transgenderers, have criminal protection if they are subjected to discrimination, hateful expressions or other hate crime, including violence. A modern understanding of the relationship between sex, identity and sexuality combined with the actual experiences of the group challenging the traditional gender standard suggests that these grounds of discrimination should not be distinguished. Persons with a sexual expression and a gender identity challenging society's norms need special protection. It should be easy to do something about it, and that's what the proposal deals with. In addition, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, believe that knowledge of hate crime is lacking. As you know, it's hard to do something about problems you don't have a full overview of. Therefore, we believe that the amount of hate crime must be recorded more accurately than is the case today. Based on the knowledge we actually have through previous reports, we know that a significant proportion of those who practice hate crime are young people. As we see it, it means that the school must take a clearer responsibility for disseminating knowledge and attitudes compatible with democracy, equality and the security of minorities. That the concept of ‘homo’ is one of the most common outbursts in school is an illustration of the need for action. This is important, because, as we know, action needs to be taken as early as possible to avoid poor attitudes. Here are the attitudes that arise in violence, bullying or threats. I don't think it should go that far. The Labour Party will also support the resolution promoted by the Greens, but I have come to understand that there will be a clarification that I believe will address the concerns just mentioned by the rapporteur in his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2073	Freedom of expression is strong in Norway, and it is protected by the Constitution. That's something we're going to be proud of and hang out about. We have to endure a sharp-worded disagreement and opinion that, for some, can be perceived as offensive, but we should not spread or encourage hatred. Hateful statements may occasionally hinder freedom of expression. We know that many, especially young people, who are exposed to hateful expressions, refuse to participate in the public debate, and then we have essentially hindered freedom of expression. I am very pleased that the government already in 2016 promoted the first strategy towards hateful statements, a strategy that will last until 2020. The aim of the strategy is to contribute to a good public exchange of views and to prevent and counteract hateful expressions. There are many proposals in this strategy, and what is important and a main objective, is to facilitate the detection, investigation and promotion of hateful opinions to a greater extent than at present before the courts or other relevant bodies. We have also introduced a completely new law of discrimination which provides a protection against discrimination for those who are exposed. One of the measures in the strategy promoted by the government in 2016 was to look at the consistency between criminal law and the grounds for discrimination under the anti-discrimination legislation. I am pleased that the government is already working on assessing this. What is worrying is the numbers of darkness in both hate crime in general and hateful expressions. It is enough, as the Oslo police say, that the amount of hateful statements that could have been assessed under Section 185 of the Criminal Code is probably much greater than the number of persons registered or reported as a criminal offence to the police. Therefore, I am pleased that the government has launched a website called Hateful Eyerings.no, where you can easily get information about where to turn for advice and help if you wonder if you are exposed to a hateful opinion, and where you can also see which issues are criminal, and how things have gone on with these issues. For it is hateful statements today that are criminal and that have to be investigated and punished – The Manglerud Police Station is probably the ones that have gone ahead in this work – but as the representative of the Workers' Party here refers to, it is not well enough recorded. It should not be that it is where you live in this country, which is crucial for how hateful statements are received by the police. That is why I am pleased that the government has now said that all the police districts should work to combat hateful statements and get hold of this. Very good information from the Manglerud Police Station will also be used in the other police districts. We need to have expertise in hate crime across the country. A common guide is created for police registration under Section 185 of the Criminal Code, and a national statistics on hateful statements are also to be compiled. Another measure that the government is already taking is the one that we are going to vote on today and which is being given a majority. It is gratifying that an overall increase is committed to combating hate crime and hateful expressions, and that we are careful to ensure that there is a good protection against discrimination for those who need protection from discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2090	Much of Norway's history is a dark chapter in the freedom to be oneself and to be accepted as one, regardless of ethnicity, religion, outlook on life, disability or sexual orientation. It has not been a very long time since discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity took place openly in Norway and with the blessing of the Storting. We're going back no further than 1972 to find that sexual acts between men were forbidden, and for much of the 20th century homosexuality was seen as a medical anomaly. Over many decades, there has been a struggle in Norway to see all people as equivalent, and that everyone should be able to live safe lives and live in freedom, regardless of who they are. It's been a struggle for the fundamental right to be himself. Over the years, there are many Nordics who have not had the right that many of us today consider to be completely natural. Standards have been changing, and today Norway has come a long way in how society deals with sex and sexuality. Today, society has a much greater acceptance for diversity in sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression than before. We have a strong protection against discrimination and hatred, and we need that in order to protect our own inhabitants and to be able to call ourselves a state that sets freedom and human dignity high. We also need it to be a precursor country for the rest of the world. For in many of the world's countries, it is still forbidden to have a different sexual orientation than to be heterosexual, or to have a different sex identity than to be a woman or a man. And in many countries, you can still risk stoning, whipping, life-long prison or death penalty to be yourself. Nor is it problem-free in Norway. ‘Homo’ is still one of the most common bans in this country, and we know that there are still LHBT people who feel that they need to hide their identity, and that on average these people experience greater challenges related to mental health, workplace transparency, solitude and quality of life than others. There is still skepticism and hatred for homosexuals and transsexuals, which can experience hate crime, discrimination and harassment because of who they are. It is clear that people with a gender expression and a gender identity that violates social norms currently have a protection in the Equality and Discrimination Act, but that this is not sufficiently included in the penal code for all groups. The wording of the Penal Code covers, first and foremost, crimes against homosexuals, not against persons who have other forms of gender identity and expression, such as sex. transsexuals, and these groups need special protection. For this reason, the Central Party supports the proposal to extend the provisions of the Criminal Code to hateful expressions, hate crime and discrimination that occur because of a person’s gender and gender identity. And we are very happy, like the previous speakers, that there is an overall committee that agrees on this. In addition, I would like to point out that there is a need for more knowledge of the extent of hate crime, which has been discussed by many, and not least a strong focus on prevention. At arenas where children and young people grow up, primarily in school, attitudes and understanding related to equivalency, acceptance and tolerance for others must be a natural and important part of everyday life, growth and learning. Criminal acts motivated by hatred or negative attitudes in all forms of discrimination, but ethnicity, religion, outlook on life, sexual orientation and disability in particular, are serious to those who are exposed to action, but also to entire groups in society, precisely because such actions have often been carried out with a view to creating fear and uncertainty among all those who identify themselves with the same group. In a country like Norway, where equivalency and community are a fundamental value, we need to take that crime seriously by preventing and ensuring that there are grounds for putting it down hard when it occurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2107	I actually drew myself just for a brief consideration on the Greens' loose proposals. I share the intention of a joint committee that this position is very good, but the Greens have invited us to a discussion in which they ask the government to promote a proposal to replace 'homophile orientation' with'sexual orientation' in the provisions of the criminal law, as stated. § 185 etc., so that it is also included in it. The choice of words in the Greens' Greens' proposals is a bit unfortunate. I support the intention of the Greens' proposals, but the choice of words is a little unfortunate because'sexual orientation' does not cover the protection that we want some vulnerable groups to have. SV will support this solution proposal, with the change in vocabulary that I believe the Greens will come up with now, and that will give us a little more clarification on which groups this will actually be about. So I hope the Storting can support it, to reject the intention of the Environmental Party The Greens here will look a little strange outwards. It might say that we're not particularly concerned with ensuring this vulnerable group a certain level of protection against hateful expressions. With the change that the Green Party comes with, I think the Stortinget can safely go into it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2112	Every human being must feel secure for himself and his choices in life. Everyone must be given the opportunity to participate in society on equal terms, and the freedom to be himself is fundamental, but not as obvious to everyone. Most people who violate gender and sexuality standards live good lives. Nevertheless, many significant challenges are encountered, mainly due to a lack of knowledge of gender and sexuality. The report ‘Rattenne to LHBTI children in Norway’, prepared for the 2016 Redd Barna, FRI and Skeiv Youth, shows that children who violate standards for sex and sexuality are disadvantaged than other children in several important areas. LHBTI children and young people may face challenges in a number of arenas, including: through school, leisure, health care, child protection and family protection. Research indicates that LHBTI youth is overrepresented in child protection. The Government’s current action plan against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression therefore affects a number of areas, such as kindergarten, school, community, sports arenas, working life, etc. In this area, efforts are needed in several fields, because it is about disseminating knowledge that can help change attitudes and create greater acceptance for inequalities and diversity. There is a wide variety of identity categories that belong to the group of those that violate gender and identity standards. You don't have to know everyone, it holds with a basic understanding that there are more than two categories, and a respect that we all live different lives. We need to ensure an open and inclusive society, regardless of sexual orientation, gender expression and gender identity. It follows from the Sixth paragraph of Section 100 of the Constitution that public authorities should facilitate an open and informed public conversation and the establishment of a well-functioning public space. Hateful statements may limit the individual’s ability to participate in the public debate. It is therefore our task to look at measures to ensure equal opportunities for all to participate in the public debate. First of all, we need to spread more knowledge about gender, sexuality and diversity, because knowledge provides a better basis for understanding and respect. The government’s 2016 strategy against hateful opinions therefore includes both school and education, working life, justice and the media sector. As mentioned earlier, action is necessary in a number of areas of society, but it is also necessary to look at the protection of criminal law. As some have pointed out in this debate, people who violate society’s standards of gender identity and gender equality have, however, not changed the protection of the criminal law against discrimination. I am glad that the Storting today asks the government to do something about it. Persons with a sexual expression and a gender identity challenging society’s norms need special protection. Hat talk, harassment and hate crime are a big problem. Many experience harassment online, in the schoolyard and in their own family. It is therefore important to extend the provisions of the Criminal Code on hateful expressions, hate crime and discrimination to hateful expressions made or to discrimination exercised by reason of a person’s gender or gender identity. Today’s decision is a recognition of the challenges faced by many people and a clarification that discrimination on this basis is not tolerated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2129	The proposal of the Workers' Party to include gender identity and gender expression in criminal law provisions on discrimination and hate crime is an important and necessary extension. In any case, when we are finally going to expand the law with gender identity and expression, it would also have been nice that all types of sexual orientation were explicitly protected in the legal text – not just homosexuals. The law text is simply out of date. The term ‘homophilia’ does not clearly indicate that the law covers other sexual minorities. So far, there have been very few cases in the judicial system based on the provisions, but it is unnecessary to distinguish between homosexuals and other types of sexual orientation as well as a person's sexual expression or gender identity in such cases. I would like to thank you for your cooperation and input from SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. That is why we propose replacing ‘homophile orientation’ in the law with ‘sexual orientation’, as well as a person’s sexual expression or gender identity. 1, which we want to record. The proposal now reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to replace ‘homophile orientation’ by ‘sexual orientation, a person’s gender or gender identity’ in the provisions of the Criminal Code, as set out in § 185. Hateful statements and § 186. Discrimination.’ With that, we hope that the Storting will participate in updating the law of today's more inclusive understanding of sexual diversity. This should be a simple proposal to say yes to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2143	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has thus taken up proposal No. 1, as amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2148	Let me first say that hate crime and hateful expressions are a problem that needs to be taken seriously. This type of crime not only affects the individual victim but creates fear and insecurity in society. The government’s strategy against hateful expressions for the period 2016-2020 therefore emphasises that the government wants to ensure that hateful expressions and hate crime are prioritised in all police districts. Such matters need to be specifically addressed and handled by the police with great seriousness. Let me also say that I share the Committee's view that people with a gender identity and a gender expression that challenges society's standards need special protection. According to the Equality and Discrimination Act, these persons currently enjoy civil protection. There is a clear need to assess how gender identity and expression can also be included in the protection of criminal law against various forms of hate crime. I would like to stress that it is important to ensure that the protection of criminal law against discrimination is sufficiently effective and adapted to the situations that arise in practice. It is also important to ensure better consistency between civil and criminal law protection against hateful expressions. The government’s strategy against hateful opinions in 2016-2020 stated that a criminal law assessment of the protection of discrimination should be carried out. The same is highlighted in the Government’s Action Plan against Discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression 2017–2020. The Ministry of Justice and Defence aims at sending an external investigation into the protection of criminal law against discrimination to be heard in a short period of time. The investigation reviews a number of criminal law rules on discrimination in criminal law and in discrimination law. A number of proposals on how to amend the rules are also promoted. One of the proposals in the investigation is to add ‘sex identity’ and ‘sex expression’ as the relevant basis for discrimination in the relevant criminal law provisions. In order to ensure that any proposals for legislative changes by the government are well professionally elaborated, it is essential that the investigation be carried out at the hearing, including: prosecution authorities, victims and civil society shall be heard. A good knowledge base is important to ensure the overall protection of criminal law against discrimination. It brings me to the proposal of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European A similar proposal to replace ‘homophilia’ with ‘sexual orientation’ was considered in the context of the Penal Code in 2005. It was then rejected, because a term such as ‘sexual orientation’ would of course include heterofiles. Then you lose the whole point, giving protection to minorities. As it is often called: a protection for all, often becomes a protection for none. The provisions of the Criminal Code also cover more provisions than §§ 185 and 186. Overall, this shows how unfortunate it may be that the Storting is shooting a solution without it being thoroughly treated, and without it having been at the reassuring hearing you need to get a good result. Finally – the result I think all agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2168	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2173	What is so dangerous about hate crime is that it not only affects individuals – when a person is exposed to crime, it sends a message to everyone within a group that someone is after them. It seems terrifying, keeps lives in prejudices and contributes to social exclusion. The penal code has been too weak when groups that are actually subjected to hate crime — as transsexuals — have not had a separate protection. Although today’s legislation on criminal atrocities through physical insults and other criminal acts has provided an opening for criminal atrocities when transsexuals have been exposed, this is not enough. We have also had rounds around groupings in the past that have needed special protection. In 2013, disabled persons were covered by the law and received special protection. The penal code §§ 185 and 186 are now extended to include gender identity and gender expression. These are discrimination, hateful expressions and refusal to accept goods or services because they belong to this group. They are finally given special protection. So it's not enough just to change the law. Active and widespread work is needed on many fronts to prevent hate strikes and hate crime. As Solvency Horne explained to us quite extensively, the government has done a lot. In 2016, a strategy came against hateful statements, which was the first of its kind. On 1 June 2017, we received a common law on equality and discrimination, and the protection of homosexuals and transpersons is now extended to all areas of society, not only in the labour market and in the housing market, as it was before. So here's a lot going on. When the government is now to carry out an investigation into the protection of discrimination in criminal law, there is also another group that the department should look at. The Oslo police refer to transsexuals, but they also refer to Jews. They believe that anti-Semitism should have a separate protection of discrimination in criminal law. As I said, it's important to make sure that groups that need special protection get it. Finally, as far as the Greens' proposals are concerned, we are firmly opposed, and that is because we believe there is a danger that we will water down the law by adopting that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2192	Transsexuals still have a long way to go to be widely accepted in society. Today's decision helps to raise them a step further in the direction of being equal to the others. We have a metoo campaign going on where the main goal is to increase respect for other people. There have been a number of other campaigns in recent years that everyone has had as their top goal of increasing respect for human dignity, but there has been no campaign for transsexuals. For many years, transsexualism has been viewed as a mental diagnosis. In the health care diagnostic manual, it is found under the chapter ‘Psychiatric disorders and behavioural disorders’, where it is registered as F64.0. Transsexuals have been viewed by many as people who are not at their full five. It is expected that the World Health Organisation will change the definition of transsexuals from being a mental disorder to becoming part of sexual health. I also expect the Norwegian diagnostic manual to be updated in a short time. After all, we live in 2018, and we have to show that we respect all people, regardless of gender perception. Today we are ashamed of the attitudes of the Nordics towards homosexuals when we thought homophilis was a mental illness and could treat it. We should be ashamed of the attitudes many of us have toward transsexuals today. A study conducted by the Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm gave a dark picture of the life situation to many trans-persons in the Nordic region. 20 pst. has been subjected to violence, 30 pst. Has been sexually assaulted, 33 pst. has tried to take his own life, and 65 pst. has avoided everyday activities due to the fear of discrimination. They say they're afraid to go out alone. It's no less than daunting that 40 pst. they do not seek public help because they fear not to be taken seriously. Against this background, I am very pleased that an overall judicial committee proposes to extend the provisions of the criminal law on hateful expressions, hate crime and discrimination against people because of their gender or gender identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2203	People live different lives, and the freedom to be themselves and choose their own lives is fundamental in a liberal society. But it is not obvious to everyone, nor in Norway. Many of those who violate gender and sexuality norms face major challenges. We should be concerned that this applies not least to children and young people, who face the challenges of school, leisure and health care, but also to child protection and family protection. Much of this is due to a lack of knowledge about gender and sexuality. We have a big job to do, and there's a need for more knowledge, not least in school and health. I am pleased that the government's strategy against hateful expressions from 2016 includes both school and education, working life, justice and the media sector. It is absolutely essential for us as a society to show respect for the fact that all people live different lives. We need to ensure an open and inclusive society, regardless of sexual orientation, gender expression and gender identity. Hateful statements can restrict people's freedom and opportunities to participate in the public debate, and they are also a threat to our democracy. That is why it is our job to look at measures that ensure equal opportunities for participation in society and in public debate. Hat crime not only affects the individual who is subjected to violence, discrimination or threats, creates insecurity for large groups of the population and limits their ability to live. Persons with a sexual expression and a gender identity challenging the norms of society need special protection. That is why it is also necessary to look at the protection of criminal law. Today we have a protection of discrimination in the law on equality and discrimination, but it has not changed the protection of the criminal law on discrimination. Therefore, today’s decision extending the provisions of the Criminal Code on hateful performances, hate crime and discrimination to hateful statements made or discrimination exercised by reason of gender or gender identity is very important. I am very pleased that we have a unanimous decision in the Storting on this today, because this is absolutely necessary to make it clear that discrimination on this basis cannot be tolerated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2218	In today’s diversity, it is important that the wording of the law is adapted precisely to this diversity and not based on what can be understood as anachronisms in relation to today’s society. The proposal with the clarification the Green Party has come with, I think, is good, and it will, in my understanding, be a good one, as we want it to do in line with the rest of the law. The Labour Party can see no problem in going for this and believes that it will not lead to dilution of the law, as the Council of State, among other things. point.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2225	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2241	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2252	The Judicial Committee has examined a proposal for a representative from the representatives of Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius, Knut Arild Hareide, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and Trude Brosvik. The proposal is that the Storting should ask the government to make proposals for a change to the penal code that ensures that attempts to purchase sexual services are punishable. In 2008, the Stortinget decided that the purchase of sexual services should be included in the penal code. The purpose of the prohibition was, inter alia, to: strengthening efforts to combat trafficking in human beings. The experience gained after this change in the penal code shows, among other things. have been found in the media, that changes to the law as designed do not prevent attempts to purchase sexual services. Decriminalisation in this area appears to be an unintended consequence of the separation between crimes and offences being abandoned by the introduction of the new penal code. Therefore, like the proposers, the Committee considers that this uncertainty as to whether attempts to purchase sexual services are punishable or not needs to be corrected. An overall committee has therefore come to the conclusion that the law needs to be amended in order to make it clear that attempts at criminal offences of Section 316 of the 2005 Penal Code are to be punishable and therefore insists that the Stortinget asks the government to submit proposals to amend the penal code to ensure that attempts to purchase sexual services are punishable. The Committee will commend the proposers for having seen this unintended consequence in the criminal law, and a joint committee shall promote the following proposals: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the penal code to ensure that attempts to purchase sexual services are punishable.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2266	The purchase of sexual services has been prohibited in Norway since the decision of the Stortinget in 2008 to include this in the penal code of 1902. Attempts to purchase sexual services were also punishable by that law, but after the entry into force of the Penal Code in 2005, trials — according to that provision — have ceased to be the subject of criminal law. The central party is of the opinion that there is an unintended consequence of purely legal circumstances because the new penal code does not distinguish between offence and crime and that it has not been the intention of the Stortinge to decriminalise attempts. The new legal situation has proved to cause some practical and ethical issues for the police action and made it difficult to enforce the prohibition on the purchase of sexual services. It is desirable that it be corrected as soon as possible, and the Central Party therefore joins the proposers and supports the proposal to ensure that attempts to purchase sexual services are also punishable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2275	In 2008, the Stortinget decided that the purchase of sexual services should be made punishable. The background to the Christian People's Party's wish for the ban was, among other things, that it would be an important measure to combat trafficking in human beings. The introduction of the Sex Purchases Act was an important milestone in highlighting human dignity and making it clear that people are not a commodity for sale. The ban introduced applied to both attempts and enforcement of the penalty. So when the new penal code was passed, it was not intended that attempts to buy sex would no longer be punishable. Just before Christmas last year we could read on the Dagbladet website that Oslo police district had issued only five fines for the purchase of sexual services in the capital in 2017. The background to the low number of criminal reactions was that it was no longer a criminal offence to try to buy sexual services. They also pointed out that the change posed some ethical challenges for police officers, and thus also challenges related to law enforcement. My party colleague, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, therefore asked a written question to the Minister of Justice at the time to find out what caused this change. The Minister of Justice then replied as follows: ‘In a letter to the Ministry, the prosecutor stated that attempts to purchase sexual services from adults can no longer be punished and that this decriminalisation appears to be an unintended consequence of the separation between crimes and offences being abandoned by the introduction of the new penal code. However, as mentioned by the representative, Magnus Matningsdal, in the commentary version of the Penal Code, states that such attempts are still punishable. I take note that there is a disagreement about what is current right in this area. I would therefore like to assess whether the Ministry should, at the hearing, send a legislative amendment proposal to clarify this.’ The Government's response clearly showed that legal expertise and the Riksadvokat had quite different interpretations of the applicable law. We in the Christian People's Party therefore promoted the proposal that a unanimous judicial committee has now come to an end. I think that's great. And not least, it's great that those who are actually against the Sex Purchases Act are now helping to correct this unintended consequence. That's good because it'll help help even more victims of human trafficking.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2287	There are different views about whether the purchase of sexual services should be punishable, but that is not the debate we are going to take today. As long as such acts are punishable, we can all agree that the legal situation must be clear and predictable. It is because of a pure incurrence that in the new penal code it has become unclear whether attempts to purchase sexual services are still punishable. We are already in the process of rectifying this, on the basis of an enquiry by the Riksadvokat. The Ministry intends, within a short period of time, to submit to the hearing a proposal clarifying the criminality of attempting to purchase sexual services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2297	I note that the Right Party and the Advance Party in their comments in the vote make it clear that they now support the majority of the Committee on this proposal and intend to clarify and correct any misunderstandings in today's legislative text. However, it can also be understood that these government parties are now seeing the benefits of a ban on the purchase of sexual services and that they want to make a positive contribution to strengthening the legislation they have previously opposed. I note that the Council of State did not wish to go into the debate, yet I allow myself to ask the Council of State the question of how he now asks himself that the purchase of sexual services is included in criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2302	It is not right for me to consider what the representatives of the Committee think. I just want to say now that if it is basically right to punish, is a debate that is not here today. But it is not a debate that I am unwilling to come back to on a later occasion. What is undoubtedly important is that when we have laws, they should be clear, clear and predictable. It should not be the way it is now, that Storting's intention is not fulfilled because the law is unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2307	The cord shift is over. Several speakers have not asked for the floor. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2325	As the President so aptly said, I have asked the Minister of Fisheries to intervene in illegal dumping of fish from ships, which poses environmental challenges and has reputational implications for the industry. During the last few weeks, the Coast Guard has reported several cases of illegal dumping of fish from vessels, including: outside Senja and Troms. This is an environmental challenge, but also has negative reputational implications for a forward-looking and important industry. Then my question is, what does the Council of State think we can do to deal with the problems of dumping fish?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2332	First, I have to be allowed to praise the interpellant in order to raise a very important matter. Dumping fish is wasting food and is undermining the sustainable management of our fish stocks. Therefore, dumping of fish is simply unacceptable and is prohibited in Norway. As early as 1987, a ban was introduced on draft cod and hay in Norwegian waters. Later, the ban was extended to other species. Since the entry into force of the Sea Resource Act in 2009, the general rule has been a draft ban — a simplification: it has been mandatory to take all fish harvested in Norway to land. Norway has gone ahead here, and we can be proud of our legislation in this area. But we still need to focus heavily on this. Such practices reflect attitudes we want to end up in the Norwegian fishing industry. Other countries have come after us, for example. The EU, which is now gradually in the process of introducing a similar law. The fact that the Coast Guard has now revealed several fishermen in systematic dumping is very discouraging. As the representative also points out, this behaviour not only poses an environmental challenge but also destroys the good reputation of Norwegian fishermen. Dumping unwanted or unprofitable fish also creates different competitive conditions in the industry. We have to recognise that it is challenging to enforce such a draft ban — or landing obligation — which is the correct concept under the law. The economic incentives for discarding unwanted catches on board may be strong. At the same time, the sea is a lot and the number of fishing vessels is a lot, which makes the control very demanding. Fisheries management has been working for 30 years on an overall approach to reducing discards. In this context, regulation to avoid unwanted catches has been central. Philosophy is simple: If unwanted catches do not arrive on board, they will not be thrown out either. Unwanted catches can be fish below minimum or too much interference with non-fishing species, i.e. by-catch. There may also be fish on which there is no quota or where fishing is prohibited. Over time, the regulation of individual fisheries has been gradually changed in order to avoid, as far as possible, unwanted catches on board. Vessels may have quotas for the species expected to be included in the catch. Many fisheries are mixed fisheries, and we must take that into account. Furthermore, the management has developed rules on by-catch and the incorporation of fish under minimum targets. By-catch rules also allow fishermen to legally fish and sell non-quota species as long as the quantity of by-catch does not exceed a specific limit. If the interference of by-catch is too large, the vessel is obliged to change fishing grounds. An important element of the Norwegian discard regime is that it is not illegal to land illegally caught fish. Instead, the management reacts strongly to illegal caught fish, for example withholding the catch income from this catch. For some types of fisheries, fishermen are compensated for the cost of taking illegal catches to land. So they don't have any income from the illegally caught fish, but they don't have much expenditure, and they're going to benefit from the fish instead of being thrown into the ocean. Fishing authorities may also close fishing grounds for a limited period of time. The closure of fishing grounds is widely used in the north when the incorporation of small fish is too large. This avoids unwanted catches and therefore also unwanted dumping. Similarly, in the North Sea and Skagerrak, we have a regime called Real Time Closure – or RTC – where an area can be closed for up to 21 days. There has also been a great deal of effort to develop more selective fishing gear over many years. Tool controls require minimum mesh sizes, sorting strips, panels and anything else to avoid unwanted catches. In 2018, the Directorate for Fisheries has, among other things, projects aimed at shrimp trawls, cod trawls, colloidal trawls and notches. Many projects are also under way at the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea and at the SINTEF in order to develop fishing technology towards more selective fishing activities, which are designed to improve the availability of raw materials. I think it's one of the important keys to avoiding drafts in the future. I have to admit, however, that we cannot regulate ourselves away from any illegal by-catch or interference with fish below minimum limits. It may also be purely economic incentives that are behind illegal discards. The concept of high-grading is used to maximise catch value. Poorer paid small fish are thrown out so that the quota can be filled by the best paid fish. Therefore, it is necessary to follow up fisheries by means of control measures. I want to praise the Coast Guard and the Directorate of Fisheries's maritime service, which is doing a great job controlling the fishing grounds. In recent years, control settings have strengthened cooperation on control, improved analytical tools and improved risk assessments. The aim of the control work is to comply with laws and regulations. In this respect, we need to understand why the rules are being broken and to select instruments in the control and enforcement work in the light of this knowledge. I myself was with the Fisheries Directorate in winter and saw the interaction that exists between the industry, the Fisheries Directorate and the Coast Guard. In the simplest cases, illegal drafts may be due to a lack of knowledge of the specific regulations or a lack of understanding of the landing obligation itself. Such cases are resolved by dialogue with the industry. In recent years, therefore, there has been a close dialogue with the industry to reduce the illegal release of the pelagic fisheries, particularly in mackerel fishing. There has also been a good dialogue with the industry about shrimp fishing in the North Sea and Skagerrak. However, in meeting non-compliance actors, dialogue and knowledge are not helpful. In that case, illegal activity must be detected, and there should be consequences. And it does. That is why we have operational resource control at sea as well as requirements for electronic reporting by fishermen. The Coast Guard uses cameras in addition to vessels. Aircraft have been used for most control at sea in the past, but have been used as a priority on the coast this year. In addition, electronic reporting is necessary to verify compliance. It also provides a basis for better risk assessment, making physical control more accurate. Of course, the reactions of detection of illegal drafts depend on the severity. Serious cases involve notification or, in the worst case, withdrawal of a acquisition authorisation — permanently or for a period. The cases that have now been identified show that awareness-raising work is still needed among fishermen. It has to be resolved through the dialogue track. At the same time, both the preventive work on regulation and the control itself must be strengthened. Therefore, through the government, I will continue the effort to develop tools and systems that provide targeted catches of good quality. It will be the most important preventive measure. Furthermore, it will be essential to obtain catch and activity data from the coastal fleet, simply to provide a better basis for control. These are the plans for, and it will come in a short time. In the longer term, several different measures can be assessed. It's an important issue we're discussing here today, and I want to think about the control work in a whole new way. That's why I'm putting down a sample before summer to give me good advice on how to organise control even better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2364	As the Minister also said in his reply, the dumping of fish waste is food and undermines the sustainable management of fish stocks. It is not only an environmental challenge, it also destroys a good reputation for Norwegian fishermen. I agree with the Minister for Fisheries that we need to develop fishing technologies that allow us to move towards more selective fishing that also takes the best possible product on the raw material. The Coast Guard is doing a great and valuable job of control. In a report in the Fiskeribladet on 6 April 2018, it says that the Coast Guard has revealed in a short time, among other things. five boats carrying out it referred to as ‘systematic discarding of fish’. It appears in the same article that this is ‘routinely marked’. It is, in my view, very regrettable. This is a major environmental challenge, but also definitely a major waste of resources. I don't think the Coast Guard will necessarily be able to reveal all the cases. Of course, there are some cases due to a lack of knowledge of the specific regulations or a lack of understanding of the landing obligation itself. I believe, as the Minister, that dialogue needs to be improved, but I also believe that the knowledge and attitude of the draft must be understood in such a way that this will also have consequences for future fishing for those who carry out this ‘systematic’ – as the Coast Guard calls it – and routinely. There is no doubt that the majority is honest. That's why it's a challenge for them. The leader of the Norwegian Fisheries Team, Kjell Ingebrichtsen, is very clear when he says: We distance ourselves from throwing fish overboard. Our goal is that the dumping of fish should not take place at all. I understand, of course, that this will be essential to get a correct capture and activity data that will provide a better basis for future control. I think it is particularly important in such an important industry as we have in our fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2378	Again, the interpellant points to a number of issues that we experience. As of 20 April, the Coast Guard has revealed a total of eight cases of violation of the landing obligation. Four of these cases have been reported, four cases are still pending. Seven of these matters relate to the coastal fishing fleet. In 2017, there were twelve cases. As I explained in my main post, I feel that we all take this draft problem seriously, given that the problem is not solved. That is why I believe, as I also said, that we must build on the good work that has already been done. And then we have to have two thoughts in our heads at the same time: it's about avoiding, as the interpellant also has it, that honest fishermen get unwanted catches on board, while at the same time strengthening the control of those who deliberately break the law. The term of office of the sample which I mentioned in my main post will be reduced soon, has two clear objectives: increased compliance with Norwegian fisheries legislation increased market access for fish in foreign markets Because it is clear that there is a problem, which is also the subject of the interpellant, that the idea of good, comprehensive control is to be made a competitive advantage. We now notice that in the markets we are in, there are larger and larger demands that the fish are legally landed and that we have order in our systems. Market actors and the authorities of other countries are making greater demands on evidence and on the quality of sustainability and animal welfare care through harvesting and production. Then it is clear that those who deliberately commit this type of crime are involved in destroying the reputation of the entire Norwegian fisheries policy in this. Examples of this are the new regime of the United States, which is engaged in tracing imports of seafood, etc. and the requirements for the catch certificate for exports to the EU, China and Japan etc. So we can't stand still looking at this. The selection shall include, inter alia: also explore how new technologies will contribute to increased security of fisheries sustainability and that maritime food has just been legally traded. New computer technologies, such as blockages, image recognition and artificial intelligence, open up entirely new opportunities to document what is taken up by the sea and how the capture is managed through the value chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2399	The committee will also look at the organisation of control resources. Interaction between the control actors on the one hand and the control authorities and the police and prosecution authorities on the other will be important issues. We need to ensure that we now have a system aimed at the future, where control resources are used efficiently and efficiently.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2402	I would first like to thank the representative of Skkelstad for an important interpellation. Dumping fish is something both engaged and insurgent all along the coast. The fishermen are harvesting our common fishing resources. For any reason, the dumping of fish is totally unacceptable, and it is good that the Minister for Fisheries is clear that it needs to be stopped. The vast majority of fishermen follow laws and regulations, but those who do not do so contribute to weakening the reputation of the entire industry. Work against dumping and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing was also a high priority in the Red-Green Government. As fisheries ministers, Helga Pedersen and Lisbeth Berg-Hansen took a number of measures that have produced very good results. I see it as a cross-political consensus on the fight against dumping. Dumping of fish is both unethical and an unacceptable waste of resources. In Norway discarding fish is prohibited. All fish are to be landed. The coastguard believes that the fish dumping revealed in the last few months is systematic dumping and routine behaviour. In that case, it is very serious. On the part of the Labour Party, we agree that it must be put down hard. The Labour Party also has ambitions for Norway to be the world’s leading maritime nation. Then we must also be the best in resource management, ensuring good control, improving documentation, using new technologies and making a hard impact on illegalities. If we are to have credibility in the fight against drafts internationally, we must ensure that we have control nationally. Norway has had a draft ban for several years and has long been a driving force towards the EU, where they are only now gradually implementing a law similar to what we have. The Minister for Fisheries has announced that he will set up a public body to look at how we can ensure compliance with fisheries legislation. It could be positive. Control of fisheries is important, both at sea and on land. Coast Guards are doing a very important job of monitoring the fishing grounds both at sea and from the air. On land, the Directorate for Fisheries is in charge of controlling the landing obligation. It is important that the Directorate of Fisheries and Coast Guards have strengthened their cooperation in recent years, and it is good that the Coast Guard now alerts more surveillance of the smallest fleet as well. Hopefully that'll have a preventative effect. I have to mention – when we discuss this topic – that the helicopter situation in the Coast Guard also affects their ability to be a good control body. The Workers' Party is concerned about the defence chief's proposals, which in practice mean that the Coast Guard is deprived of its own helicopters, and believes that the government has so far not reacted strongly enough to it, rather with paralysis, and not the power to state that the Coast Guard should, of course, have its own helicopters. It is unfortunate that the helicopter situation should help to weaken the important work done by the Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2419	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Skelstad, for raising an important issue. Work on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and fisheries dumping — illegal discards of fish — is a work that has been going on for decades after decades. It was quite a breakthrough when a major international cooperation on this was in place a few years ago, when Helga Pedersen was Minister for Fisheries. It was a work that started all the way back in 2004, with a special commission, etc. Of course, everyone is concerned that this is a sin that should not happen. The rules are there, the requirements are there, but then we get back to the same situation, that it takes care of it. We have recently dealt with one matter from the Riksrevision. They had gone through the resource control in South Norway. It was very disturbing finding they did. They found problems with resource control from Coast Guard work to the work of the fish stocks, the work on data reported to the authorities of the fishermen, but not used by the authorities to discover possible illegal conditions. The big question for Stortinget is: Do we have enough control of the resource today? Is this work good enough today? Is the Coast Guard able to uncover sea relations? Are they well enough able to do that? We know – as the representative Martin Henriksen had in mind – that we have a critical situation for the helicopters to the Coast Guard. If they're going to be able to uncover without going on board the boats on this huge sea, which we all talk about, they have to have helicopters to see, or preferably have drones that can go out – which are now trying, but on too small a scale. Is the Directorate able to use the data they receive, this amount of data that they have required the fishermen to submit, but to which the investigation into the Riksrevision shows that they do not have a systematic relationship? That's not good enough. The same is true of the work done by the Coastal Works. The Alignment Service has a role here in setting standards for how to create good conversion models, so that you can detect illegal conditions. The question is whether we now see a confusion in the resource control, that the government has not prioritised this work well enough. In the previous round we had – when the Riksrevision report was being discussed – the Council of State said there was a lot going on, there was a lot going on. At that time he wasn't concrete, and neither is he now. So I want to challenge the Minister of Fisheries to be a little concrete. What's going on? When will the Fisheries Directorate have this system in place, which allows you to use the input data? When will the Coast Guard be able to exercise proper control of the sea? So there's one last thing I want to mention. It is that the Riksrevision pointed out that the legislation that Norway has is not translated into English. At the same time, we know that there are many foreign actors in Norway. We have a trading relationship where we can get fish from other countries, and then they can access the Norwegian Sea and fishing here. I think the Stortinget sees it as quite so open that this code exists in English, but it did not. So the last question that it would be interesting to answer to the right Minister for Fisheries is: are these codes now also existing in English? Or are we still in the belief that in Norwegian this works well and will not affect the situation? Finally, I would like to say that we need a strong control. The situation with illegal, unreported and unregulated fish will always come back if the control is not strict enough. Not least, we need to have criminal responses that allow actors to be repeatedly involved in illegal drafts in such a way that they are not tempted to repeat them. It would be interesting to have the right Minister of Fisheries also come up with that theme, who is from a party that is otherwise engaged in punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2436	The representative Knag County takes up essentials. This is not a new situation. As early as 2004, this was also widely discussed in Focus on the NRC. Nor was there anything new in the 1990s, nor before that. But what makes me safe is that the minister now points so clearly to the possibilities of new technology – new opportunities to capture this. For this is also about resources, not only about controlling what comes with the boat, but also about what is left when this is captured. My concern is not necessarily that our legislation is not translated into English. I also have a concern about the economic zone and what is there when Brexit becomes more effective. This is a resource that is being fished on, and that's why we want to have such a strong control. It is as some fishermen have said, that this can also help to build down the fish stock. This is also a challenge over time, which I believe requires that attitudes need to be improved, not least among those in the industry, because I don't think we can necessarily catch up with anyone who wants to do something illegal. But initially, we have to have faith that they all, most of them don't. As I said in my previous post: I think they are all, most of them within the industry are honest and have good intentions. But in many ways, it can't be continued that you don't have control of what's an eternal resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2447	First, I would be allowed to say that in the case of translation into English, it is still to be assessed – since February. But I just have to point out that everyone who fishes in Norwegian waters is obliged to get involved in the legislation. Then you refer to the issues in the south. There is now work, there is a working group that sits and looks at the possibilities for further measures relating to the closure and opening of fishing grounds. I expect this report to come to me during the summer. But there is also the fact that the Marine Research Institute now has to invite its Swedish and Danish colleagues to look at this issue together. Then it's about estimating the draft to a large extent. As I think I also said in my main post, it's done incredibly much since the 1980s. Different governments have taken different measures that have been good, but this appears at regular intervals. We can also point to the cooperation we have had with Russia up in the Barents Sea since the 1970s, which bears good fruit. But there are always new cases in which someone knowingly and willfully engages in crime — either deliberate drafts or other types of crime. There is a lot of money in Norwegian fishing, and that is why it is so important that we focus more on this now. I think I went through that list in my main post, but if I'm going to go into detail here, I can say that funds are now being spent on a private grant at the Marine Research Institute, funded both by the HI and the Fisheries Directorate, which are working on precisely what is involved in quantifying drafts in Norwegian trawl and autoline fishing, in different geographical areas – for example. A master student at HI has also been engaged to continue to work on quantifying discards in Norwegian coastal fisheries. So it's working all the way down to the little details, and right up to the big programs. I have – it may be registered – taken an initiative to improve and strengthen cooperation between the NFD, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. There is a good cooperation there today between customs, justice and our administration. But I'm pretty sure we can pick up something more of that cooperation as well, perhaps especially on the sanctions side, because that might not be good enough as it is today. I also think that when you mention the Coast Guard and the capacity that lies there, it's just the movement of air surveillance along the coast that has made us discover more things now, which I think will be preventative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2462	That is when the debate is on case No. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2479	In the more than 70 years since World War II, all Norwegian governments have respected one important principle: no permanent bases for foreign military forces on Norwegian soil. This is the content of the basic policy, which was formalised with the basic declaration in 1949. But now it seems that the Solberg government is negotiating away this pillar of Norwegian security policy. They have opened up the permanent presence of the American military on the Guards in Trondelag, and a lot of evidence suggests that the government in hiding is about to open up to permanent presence also in the North Troms. All of this has happened in secret, without the Norwegian people being told their opinion on a crucial issue of Norway's sovereignty and security, and without the Norwegian collapse, at least during the period we are in now, being informed, either here in the main hall or in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. The basic policy is that only the Norwegian defence can have permanent military bases in Norway. Reporting Norway to NATO in its time was a controversial decision that met with great popular resistance, but both supporters and opponents agreed that when NATO membership was a fact, Norway had to take clear steps to maintain sovereignty over its own territory and maintain its traditionally good relations with neighbouring Russia. For 70 years, therefore, governments from the Workers’ Party, Right or Center have closed the door to foreign military bases in Norway. In this way, we have combined deterrence with reassurance in a way that has made Russia not view us as an enemy but as a predictable neighbour. So the basic policy has been put to the test and passed the tests through very changing circumstances. It worked through the peace-optimistic years after World War II and through the beginning of the Cold War. It worked while our neighboring country was the one-party Soviet Union, head of the Warsaw Pact. It worked after the Soviet Union and the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact. It worked against Yeltsin's western but chaotic Russia, and it also worked during the Putin era, which began in 2002. The same cannot, unfortunately, be said of the ongoing safety experiment of the Solberg government, which is about leaving an increasingly unstable United States, led by the unforeseeable Donald Trump, to use Norway for American militarisation against Russia. This experiment, which the government has never allowed the Norwegian people to see or to express their opinion, appears to be gambling with Norway's security and long-term security interests. In addition, it clearly erodes the basic policy in both letter and spirit. It should be unnecessary to say that we do not support the policies of the Russian Government or the procedure neither domestically nor internationally. The many governments of the Workers' Party, the Centre and the Right, who followed the basic policy in the interests of relations with the East, did not support the policies of the then one party state. What these governments did was realize that Norway is a small country bordering the world's largest country, and that we have an obvious long-term interest in maintaining a predictable and constructive relationship with this neighbouring country. It's a geographical reality, and you can't wish it off, no matter how much the hawks in Washington are trying to persuade us to the opposite. Even the US Embassy in Oslo admitted in a secret embassy document, leaked by WikiLeaks in 2011, that Norway’s soft policy towards Russia had given Norway considerable benefits. This is of course important. During the period of Norway, we maintained the basic policy, maintaining peace with a sometimes difficult neighbouring power. In addition, the laborious work of building trust achieved a number of other important objectives: successful joint management of the cod stock, significant environmental cooperation and, in particular, the sharing of the maritime demarcation agreement and cooperation in the Barents Sea and the Arctic. So the Solberg government claims that it is doing its best to maintain a constructive neighbourhood, but both the practical policies and the results of it show the opposite. It has not long since Minister of Defence Bakke-Jensen mentioned the people-to-people cooperation in Finnmark and used it as an argument that there is still a cooperating arena that has not been destroyed by the militarisation of Norwegian foreign policy, in which the erosion of the basic policy is part. But now Frode Berg is imprisoned in Russia, and a number of Finnish marks have gone out and complained that aggressive intelligence has destroyed border cooperation in the north. In this way, it can be said that the last straw of the Solberg government to try to minimize the erosion of basic policy has become the opposite: a regrettable illustration of how local people-to-people cooperation has also been damaged by the fact that security policy decisions taken in Washington, Oslo and Moscow are destroying the development of a thousand-year-old local neighbourhood relationship on both sides of the border. We in Red are followers of a responsible Norwegian security policy, where constructive relations with the rest of the world, including with the United States, are an important component. But we will always give priority to the interest in the security of the Norwegian people in the face of major interests when these interests conflict with each other. When the United States and the Norwegian government are going to erode the Norwegian basic policy to allow more American militarisation targeting Russia on Norwegian soil, we have such a case ahead of us. This erosion involves overturning the traditional balance between deterrence and tranquillity towards Russia, towards unilateral deterrence. That means giving the US's policy of confrontation with Russia precedence over Norway's need for cooperation. So back to the letter of the Guards and the basic policy: the government insists that the basic policy is firm, and here's the straw straw that the permanent presence of the United States on Guards is somehow suspended by the fact that the American personnel on the base are replaced at regular intervals. Here we see a very comfortable logic, because all military bases have some sort of rotation of personnel. No soldiers are sent to a base forever. The central fact is that the U.S. military is permanently present on the Guards. As the government sneaks in American militarization on Norwegian soil, without informing the people of either the conditions or the consequences, there is much we don't know about the base of the Guards. But we know that there is an agreement, that there is a ‘status of force agreement’, that this agreement says something about who has command on the base, what authority and access the Norwegian commander has to the US military personnel, and whether or not US military personnel are subject to Norwegian law and Norwegian courts. All of this has the Norwegian people and the Stortinget a natural right to know more about it. That is why I expect today to receive clear and adequate answers from the Minister of Defence to the questions raised by the matter, both the definition of the basic policy of the government, when it has now opened up the continuous presence of US soldiers on the Guards, whether it is such that there are American soldiers at all times present on the Guards, whether Norway has previously allowed the continued presence of foreign soldiers on bases in Norway, and – in the extension of the question of government definition of base policy – what conditions and limitations apply to US military personnel stationed on the Guards. Finally, what democratic anchoring does the government have to allow the continued presence of American soldiers on the Guards?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2507	The representative of Moxnes raises important questions related to the Allied military presence in Norway. Since Norway’s policy in the mid-war on the freedom of alliances in peace and neutrality in war was thoroughly flawed, Norway has since 1949 been based on committed alliance cooperation in NATO and on reinforcements by allied forces in crisis and war. Throughout this period, NATO has been the carrier of Norwegian security and defence policy. The importance of allied reinforcements for the defence of Norway cannot be overestimated. From the Norwegian side, it will not be possible to establish a credible deterrence without clearly communicating the message that we will receive allied support in the event of a crisis. Should war arise, over time we will not be able to defend ourselves without the support of allied countries. Our basic asymmetric relationship with our neighbouring country in the east makes us particularly dependent on this support. NATO membership creates clarity and predictability and provides a basis for clear and pragmatic cooperation with Russia. Allied reinforcements within the NATO framework must be prepared in peacetime in order to function effectively in crisis and war. This includes, inter alia: military forces from allied countries must practice and train in Norway in peacetime so that they become familiar with local conditions and develop competence to operate in our topography and in our climate. Not least, Norwegian and Allied forces are trained to operate together — a necessary part of a credible reinforcement concept. Historically, strengths from a number of allied countries have participated in training and exercises in Norway. As part of our ongoing defence planning, we must also facilitate the reception of allied forces in crisis and war. This means, for example, that when we adapt relevant ports, airports and other infrastructure, we must also take account of the needs of allies in strengthening Norway in crisis and war. The presence of Allierte countries in Norway has varied over time. For example, it was a clear reduction after the end of the cold war. Norwegian authorities have now for several years indicated that we want to increase allied presence, exercise and training on Norwegian soil. The long-term plan, which was widely endorsed by Stortinget, emphasises the combination of treatment with Norwegian forces. It is therefore very gratifying that allied countries show increased interest in training and practice in Norway. Deterrence, tranquillity and framework conditions for allied presence, exercise and training: We have been committed ever since our entry into NATO to balancing the deterrence dimension of our security policy with reassurance, among other things. by setting a framework for alliert and other foreign military activity in Norway during peacetime. The balance between deterrence and tranquillity has served Norway well for seven decades, under changing governments and increasing numbers. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't continue this line. The climate of security policy has varied over time. In future, we will also have to balance deterrence and tranquillity in line with developments in security policy. There is no fasitant answer to what is the ideal balance at all times. It is necessary to consider carefully on a case-by-case basis whether an action might unnecessarily lead to an increase in tension. Base policy, nuclear and access policy, the Brateli doctrine, together with more specific guidelines for allied activity, particularly in Finnmark, have been important instruments to respond to the need to reassure our neighbour in the east. The government has recently established that these established framework conditions continue. Basic policy was developed in connection with Norway's accession to NATO in 1949. The basic statement of the same year implies that Norway has instructed itself not to allow the stationing of foreign fighting forces on a permanent basis on Norwegian soil in peacetime. Because the decision is self-imposed, it is up to the Norwegian authorities to define what is from the Norwegian side the content of the basic policy. When assessing whether a given allied activity in Norway is consistent with the basic policy, an important element will be the purpose of the activity. The basic policy does not prevent regular allied presence in the form of practice and training. The rotational exercise and training of the U.S. Marine Corps on the basis of the Guards is therefore not contrary to the basic policy. The same applies, for example, to the so-called Clockwork collaboration with the United Kingdom on winter training in Inner Troms. Facilitation for US military aircraft and aircraft from other allied countries to use Norwegian airports is a very well-established practice that changing governments have supported for decades. For the U.S. part of this activity, the Colocated Operating Bases agreement, which was concluded as early as 1974, covered a total of ten Norwegian airports, which is the central framework. Today, only two Norwegian airports are covered by this scheme. In addition, significant NATO infrastructure funds have been invested at Norwegian aerodromes for the reception and training of aeroplanes from all allied countries. It is now being considered to facilitate the landing and occasional training of a smaller number of U.S. fighter aircraft. This takes place within the framework of the renewed US focus on European security resulting from the Russian annexation of Crimea. I would like to remind you that the government has not decided the measures on Rygge. In that case, the size will be oriented in the usual way. Any organization for such activity will involve the occasional presence of American planes on the Back in peacetime. Such a measure cannot in any way be alleged to be contrary to the basic policy nor is it a signal of any new practice in this area. It is therefore not correct, as claimed by the representative of Moxnes, that the government of Solberg appears to have opened up to US military bases and permanent American presence in Norway. [[...]] Moreover, it is not true that the American rotational force is currently established on the Setermo, as the representative Moxnes also claims. In his interpellation, the representative Moxnes further claims that the government has not informed the Stortinget and Norwegian public enough about certain adjustments in alliert's presence that have occurred recently. I will strongly reject this. Both in the long-term plan for the defence sector, in the budget proposal for 2018 and in the statement of foreign policy from February of this year, alliert attendance, exercise and training are mentioned. The budget proposal for the current year also explains the rotational exercise and training that is currently taking place on Guards. This activity will also be addressed in the 2019 budget proposal. The size has otherwise been specifically briefed on several occasions on the establishment of the rotational exercise and training. With regard to the claim that the public is not sufficiently informed, I would like to stress that government members have raised these issues in several papers, in speeches and in lectures, and raised a more open and informed debate. It's enough that the people seem to be more enlightened than the Moxnes representative in this particular field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2545	I wish the Minister of Defence could give clear answers to questions that affect Norway's vital security interests. As you know, the government has given the United States military permanent presence on the Guards. I came up with concrete questions because the original basic policy just excluded the permanent presence of foreign military personnel in Norway. Unfortunately, there was no very good answer to that question from the Minister of Defence. There is nothing in the long-term plan to abandon basic policy. Unfortunately, I think the answer shows how damaging it is to Norway that the government is eroding the basic policy by giving foreign powers access to establish bases in Norway. I also wanted to find out what restrictions have been imposed on American military activity in Norway and what duties the soldiers are subject to before Norwegian courts. There are responses to this, as the US usually includes so-called ‘status of forces agreements’, abbreviated SOFA, with the host countries when setting up activities in other countries. The SOFA documents thus state the power and authority of the American military, the limitations they must observe, and the power and authority of the Norwegian military in which the Americans operate. There must also be an agreement as to whether the Americans have to comply with Norwegian law, and whether Norwegian courts have the right to judge in the cases where foreign forces commit criminal acts on Norwegian soil, which has occurred in most countries where the United States has been present militarily. I understand that not everything in the documents can be published, but the parts of the agreement that relate to what kind of power and authority the government has given the American forces, there are no excuses for hiding from the Norwegian people. I would urge the Minister of Defence to give clear answers to the public about the restrictions imposed on the US military personnel in Norway. Would they be judged by Norwegian courts if they committed criminal acts on Norwegian soil? What powers have been given by the government of the U.S. Defense regarding the soldiers on the Guards?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2554	The rotational exercise and training in Norway for about 330 American soldiers started as a test scheme in 2017 and has been decided to continue in 2018. The forces are replaced, hence the rotation, twice a year, by Guards as a starting point. With Guards as a starting point, soldiers participate in a variety of training and practice activities in different places in Norway and elsewhere in the region. The experience with the scheme is very good. It strongly supports under our ability to deter, develop the ability to receive and support allied forces, and integrate between Norwegian and Allied forces. It has not been decided whether it would be appropriate to continue the scheme beyond 2018. If applicable, the Stortinget will be consulted in the usual manner. The American Marine Corps has a special position in the allied strengthening of Norway in crisis and war. Therefore, it is important for Norway that they have the opportunity to practice and train more systematically and regularly here. This specificity is underlined by the framework agreement on pre-storage and reinforcement between Norway and the United States, which was renewed in 2005 and to which the Stortinget agreed in 2006 cf. Inner. S. No 18 for 2006-2007 and St.prp. No 77 for 2005-2006. When the agreement was discussed in Stortinget, the Committee, in its unanimous comments, emphasised that the new agreement opens up extensive American practice in Norway. This is important for the Norwegian defence, but also for our allies, and essential for the ability to discharge central alliance obligations. Today’s rotational regime is part of the follow-up to this agreement, as part of the work on finding the form of the device of increased allied and American practice and training in Norway. It's not like we're picking up a crew from the US Marines with a clear passport to what it must be when they're in Norway. We have an agreement on allied practice and training, in line with agreements we have with other nations, such as the United Kingdom, Germany and France, to practice together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2574	Before Norway submitted the Atlantic Pact in 1949, the Norwegian Government declared that it would not be appropriate to permanently station foreign forces on Norwegian soil in the form of bases. This was self-imposed, and that is the so-called base statement. The idea was that Norway should not be used as a marshal for foreign powers in a possible latent war situation. The left has used the basic policy and the resistance to basic policy and NATO in general as a pretext for most of NATO and our allies have made themselves here in the country. Interconnection stations, in the case of navigation transmitters, and in the case of intelligence stations. It is a continuous assessment how to facilitate allied training. It is not new that the Marine Corps and others practice in Norway. The long-term plan for the defence points out that there is a need for increased allied training, we must ensure our safety in a good enough way. The involvement of the Marine Corps in Norway is not contrary to Norwegian base policy. The United States and the Allies have been training and training in Norway for decades, for example. British helicopters have trained at Bardufoss for a number of years, without anyone saying that this has been contrary to basic policy. Furthermore, the basic policy does not prevent alliert from pre-storage of material in Norway and does not prevent elements of NATO's command structure in Norway: I mention NATO's northern command at Kolsås in its time, and I mention the Joint Warfare Centre in Stavanger today. Alliert's presence in peacetime in the form of practice and training is a prerequisite for the Allies to be able to rescue us in a good way should the situation require it. NATO is the carrier of Norwegian security and defence policy, and the United States is our closest ally. It has given us peace in Europe for 70 years, in the same period that we have had NATO as a defence salliance. NATO is not just a defence alliance; it is also a community of values in which the alliance is prepared to stand up for the values on which Western societies are founded, namely democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Norway’s security policy interests have also served well, in the absence of naivety. Realism has been governing, and also firmness and dialogue with our great neighbour in the east.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2586	The central party is clear that the Norwegian basic policy, which has been a pillar of Norwegian security policy since we were in NATO in 1949, must be firmly established. This means that Norway shall not allow the permanent placement of foreign forces on Norwegian soil. Through this basic policy, we have avoided creating greater tension in the relationship with our neighbouring countries – mainly the Soviet Union, no Russia – than necessary. Norwegian foreign and security policies have always been concerned with finding a reasonable balance between deterrence and deterrence. We secure deterrence through a strong national defence, while at the same time being part of NATO. On the other hand, we have contributed to the detachment by avoiding the permanent placement of foreign soldiers on Norwegian soil in peacetime and by saying no to the deployment of nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil. For the Central Party, it is important to ensure that Norway itself has a strong enough defence nationally to manage different crises and threats in a good way over a certain period of time. In this context, it is worrying to read what the head of defence wrote in his military professional council in the autumn of 2015: ‘The risk of reductions in our country’s military capabilities can therefore to a lesser extent be compensated by NATO, unless strengths are stationed on Norwegian soil for daily use, as this option would be relevant for assessment. Without the ability to provide ground resistance, there is a significant risk that a counterparty may achieve its territorial objectives without our national defence being able to influence the situation.» Here we are at the heart of the debate on the Norwegian defence initiative that we are going to deal with in the Great Britain in the weeks and years ahead. The centre party was the first party to decide that Norway should meet its obligations in NATO and use 2 pst. of gross national product in defence matters by 2024. This has been followed up by the Centre with a strong commitment to its alternative budgets both in 2017 and 2018 to allow more money both for the Army and for the Home Office. So we want an increase in military capabilities that are capable of defending our own and our allies' territory, and we think it's a short-term strategy if Norway goes in a direction where we replace ground soldiers with rockets in the air. The central party has therefore also made a proposal for a representative, asking the government to submit a stepping-up plan in order to achieve NATO's goal of using 2 pst. by the GDP of Defence by 2024. What we do with the strengthening of our national defence will also be the basis for maintaining a credible base policy and continuing what we have so far been able to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2603	It's a paradox that when we deal with this interpellation, we have a decision about shutting down Andeya Air Station. The Central Party has put forward a proposal for a representative on this issue, and we see that the United States is becoming increasingly interested in the presence in Norway, including this base. We think it would be a good idea to preserve Andøya Air Station, but then of course as a Norwegian military base, in line with the basic policy we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2606	Thank you very much for this debate, it is very nice that we have the opportunity to discuss something very fundamental for Norway. Throughout the post-war period, Norwegian defence and security policies have been based on deterrence and tranquillity – these two concepts in a kind of balance. Norway has not requested permanent bases for military forces from other countries as long as Norway has not been attacked or exposed to threats of attack. That's what we want in SV that it still has to be. Over the 1990s, we were concerned with good relations with Russia because we thought it was actually in our security policy interest. People-to-people cooperation was expanded, with more open borders, more trade and environmental cooperation. Even many marriages between Norwegians and Russians were concluded. Similarly then — in the 1990s — Putin’s relationship with the West was actually quite good. The West and the United States were not seen as an enemy, but as an opportunity to develop Russia. Russia wanted Western adaptation, more trade, more cooperation on anti-terrorism measures – in fact, it did after 9/11 – and cooperation on intelligence. The arrival of Crimea created a dramatic breach of this good period. We all agree that what Russia then did to Ukraine had far-reaching consequences, and it also affected the relationship of trust between Norway and Russia. So the key question in this debate is: Is it such that the annexation of Crimea makes Russia a military threat to Norway? What's the logic of that? Is it so that Russia, because of annexation of Crimea, has suddenly become more dangerous for Norway for various reasons, in Finland? When I hear the statements of the Minister of Defence, and also the representative of Harek Elvenes, I hear no analysis of exactly that. It's just a statement. Nor have we got this covered in any defence-strategic analyses that would suggest that Russia has now become dangerous to Norway. Rather, on the contrary, former defence ministers have actually said that Russia does not pose a concrete military threat to Norway. Yet we want to have American presence on Norwegian soil. In fact, whether Russia is or becomes a threat to us depends on what we do. At a time when we are committed to punish Russia for serious international crimes in Crimea, we risk making Russia, almost constructing them, a threat to us because of our actions. They see from Russia that Norway sees them as an enemy. Why else would we have American soldiers on Norwegian soil? Norwegian policy is directly in the hands of strong nationalist forces in Russia. This is an evil spiral where Russia and the West, Russia and Norway, have entered into a pattern that creates increased tension and less security for both. The government also believes that they can defend American bases because it's rotational, it's temporary, etc., and so it's not a policy shift. The problem is that temporaryity and rotation are the government's internal reasons and words. But this isn't about reasons and words, it's about how it's perceived by Russia. Knowingly, the Minister of Defense and the government of Norway are taking Norway into a spiral of tension, which increases the threats to us. The Minister of Defense draws a traditional narrative about a Russian threat, but he can't deny any analysis of what kind of threat it actually involves, and why the incident in Crimea should have triggered this. The government is more concerned with becoming much like the Americans than with pursuing a responsible and autonomous security policy and working to reduce tension. It is that Norway and the United States do not have the same interests with regard to Russia. For Norway, Russia is a neighbouring country, but for the United States, Russia is an archenemy, not least a rival in the struggle for geopolitical positions. We don't have the same interests. It is therefore essential that Norway does not become involved in this conflict and competition between the United States and Russia. We have to cut ourselves off from the United States, and we have to pursue an independent Norwegian policy towards Russia. By building good relations with Russia and attenuating the impression that Russia is a dangerous enemy, the tension and thus the risk of Russian aggression is also dampened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2625	It is so easy to take peace, freedom and democracy for granted. History, on the other hand, has taught us that we can't do that. We will remember and mark that tomorrow, 8 May. Norwegian authorities govern Norwegian security policy and Norwegian base policy. And, as we have heard, the basic policy is firm: no foreign bases on Norwegian soil in peacetime. It's a self-imposed restriction. That being said, we base our security on cooperation with others, and the Americans are our most important allies. We have renewed the bilateral defence agreement with the United States on pre-storage and reinforcement and an agreement that opens up increased allied practice and training in Norway. The U.S. Marine Corps rotational exercise and training, based on the Guards garrison, must be seen in the light of this. The decision on this exercise and the training is anchored in Stortinget, as underlined by the Minister of Defence. The increase in integrated training and training is also a central part of NATO's strategy, and NATO is our security anchoring. The Allied exercise and training is not a violation of Norwegian basic policy, but, on the contrary, the continuation of the safety policy line Norway has led over several decades. The personnel from the United States are accommodated at the Værnes garrison as our guests. It is a base that is under Norwegian flag and Norwegian leadership. It's neither a permanent presence nor an American base on the Guards. This is in our own interest, because we are in the most serious security situation since the Cold War. As the NATO chief, Jens Stoltenberg, has said, we are facing the greatest threat to our security in one generation. It is important to stress that neither NATO nor Norway have challenged stability in Europe. This is not the time to question the value of friendship between Norway, Europe and the United States, for Norway’s security is not built alone. We must safeguard our security interests with enhanced alliance cooperation. It permeates the long-term plan of defence and the large material assets. If our friends and allies are to be able to protect us in a situation of crisis or war, they must be prepared, and we must facilitate them to do so. Therefore, increased exercise and training in Norway is so important and necessary – it ensures our defence capabilities. On the Norwegian side, we have very good experience with the rotation system so far, and there is no doubt that the Americans too are very satisfied, both with the way they have been received in Norway and Stjørdal, and with the military-professional dividend. They get tested skills and material in a realistic way. In particular, winter training has provided valuable experiences. I can assure those who are concerned that the activity has broad support in the population, among the crowds – people see this as reassuring. That NATO and the Americans confirm their alliance commitments and signal the willingness to continue their engagement in Norway, we shall be pleased. It should calm, rather than the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2642	I have sat and followed up on the debate and would like to thank the interpellant, who has raised an important question. The most striking thing about the debate is that when it comes to the main issue, about the basic policy, what the government comes up with is, unfortunately, not particularly perceptive. It's not really too big a deal. It does not overestimate the opposition on the Stortinget, nor the Russians, nor sources in the U.S. defense, who themselves claim to experience this as a permanent base – in peacetime in Norway. So this is going to be seen from outside in a completely different way from what the government is trying to explain. The government doesn't seem to be stressed by that kind of experience. That's interesting, because it's very clear now that we're going into another defence policy situation, and the government is helping to draw up a line of conflict that goes along our borders. There are several aspects that point in that direction. We are currently pursuing a defence policy where the Army, the coast and the sea are being down-prioritized, and where new combat aviation equipment is the great, holy cow, which is going to eat a lot of the investment costs ahead. No one knows what the operating costs are, but that it has consequences for the rest of the Norwegian defence system is clear. There are no warnings from the Army, and they've become more and more loud. This weakens Norway's ability to assert sovereignty over our territories. I believe that the representative Steinar Ness was concerned about something important in his speech when he referred to the Defence Council, that it is moving towards a decline in land power, and that we must then commit more strongly to our allies and make available our territories, perhaps go on chords with base policy, etc. This has also led to closer integration and the Norwegian defence system has been more dependent on, for example, the Norwegian defence system. U.S. defense. It's problematic in itself, because we don't know what comes in the next tweet, or what's the situation for NATO in ten years. The most robust strategy would be to have a strong Norwegian defence. But here you choose one to be more dependent. What might be pointing in the same direction is what has come up lately about the secret services. The E-service, for which the Minister of Defence himself is the chief, and for which he finally approves the methods, has recruited – or has tried to recruit – people on the border who have been active in the people-to-people cooperation in East Finland, to serve something that has emerged in several news releases in the north. Many have experienced approaches from both the E-service and other secret services in Norway. In addition, a nominal data collection can be done near the Russian border, etc. The picture we're getting here is that Norway's strategy has our low voltage through a strong defence, through basic policy, through nuclear policy, by no nuclear weapons being placed, produced, etc., on Norwegian soil. Here we see a confusion of that strategy, and the consequence is increased tension in our region. It's this picture that's not particularly evocative when the Secretary of Defense tries to calm down and say no, there's no change here, here's only training in winter – although he knows there's as much winter in the United States. One can train as well in winter there as in inner Troms. What has been built up in Norway for a long time has been the special relationship we need to have with the neighbor we have in the East, who has been cultivated in different ways. Finland, for example, has managed to be a bridge builder towards Russia, while Norway is now moving away from that line and contributing to increased tension in our region. I'm afraid that in this way, we're moving our attention to our region and, as the representative of the Rivers was in, we're turning ourselves into a potential marshalling area. Then it's just to ask, what kind of community of values have we become?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2660	The representative Björn Moxnes from Red said in his interview that the basic policy is one of the most important pillars of Norwegian security policy. That's not right at all. It is our membership in NATO and our Western affiliation that is the most important pillar of our security policy. This carrybar has taken care of our peace and freedom for 70 years and is going to be our security guarantee for even very many years. I would like to remind you that the basic policy was established in 1949 in fear of the Soviet Union. The year before, the Communists performed a bloody coup in Czechoslovakia. That same year, Finland was forced into a so-called friendship pact with the Soviet Union. In Norway, there was a legitimate fear that we were going to be the next victim of the Soviet Union's offensive foreign policy. This fear led to Norway becoming a member of NATO. Our self-imposed restrictions came in 1949, but these were evaluated already two years later. The Korean War made it most topical to establish NATO bases in Norway. At that time, there was no doubt among very many Northmen that the war was imminent—it was just a matter of when it came. In 1952, the government opened Torp to cancel the base statement, but a cross-political collapse said no to a planned US airbase in Westfold. The biggest concern was that the relationship with the Soviet Union should be deepened, and that the position of Sweden and Finland would be more vulnerable. As a substitute for American bases, it was opened for NATO installations, stocks and extensive allied exercise activity. The arguments for the self-imposed base statement fell in my view of the earth when the Soviet Union went down 25 years ago. The paradox today is that the country that claims to fear 300 American soldiers in Central Norway has many thousand soldiers up to the Norwegian border. There is no proportion between what Norway and our allies have on this side of the border and what Russia has on the other side. Equally full, we're going to take them into account, not the opposite. That the United States sees the need to train its soldiers under Arctic conditions in Norway, and that they see the need to upgrade Smoking to receive and operate modern combat planes, can be interpreted in at least two ways. One is that the United States and NATO confirm their commitments to our common defence, the other is that the threat picture has been exacerbated in recent years. I believe that the Norwegian basic policy has expired and that the Stortinget should abolish this self-imposed restriction. There are natural restrictions for foreign military departments in East Finland to avoid strong provocations, but in my view there are no good arguments to take care of a basic policy that I believe belongs to the story.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2675	I want to continue where the previous speakers failed, namely that there are historical experiences that led Norway, after World War II, to understand that it was not only possible to leave Europe when a major conflict or war was fought. Developments later show that it is difficult for countries to stay out of conflict, and therefore it was a deep historical experience, a painful one, which led Norway to choose an Atlantic link after the war. Moreover, most people would say that it is this fixed connection, and that they were not allowed to gradually conduct themselves by the Warsaw Pact and the Soviet Union, which also made it possible to finally see that the economic systems on which the countries based collapsed and that they had the fall of the wall. The fact that one was too optimistic in the belief that it would develop democracies is one thing. What defines a state is that it is recognised that it can defend itself, that it has a defence. It follows from this self-determination that it also freely chooses the defence alliance in which it will take place, together with other countries. It is therefore established, post-Soviet case, that this is the case, and there are also protocols on which Russia has signed up. It is therefore quite encouraging to hear that this House repeats the arguments that must be made to Russian media, state-controlled them, in order to find their way around. The basic policy is referred to as something quite different than it is, knowing that you are making a base and the activity that is in the Trendelag, as something quite different. I repeat that the basic policy is a government decision, it is self-imposed, and it applies on certain premises, namely that it is not a crisis or that war threatens. So we're the ones who define what's the opportunity to deviate from a government decision. In accordance with many years of practice, exercises are carried out and, of course, pre-storage is carried out in order to have a real defence capability if one is ever put to the test. I must say that I find this initiative by the representative of the Moxnes as quite striking. After all, he is leading a party that believes that the popular uprising in Maidan Square, which led to the present government, was a coup supported by the West. Red is against the sanctions because, as they have justified it, they recognise the Russian sphere of influence, which in this context means that they can enter other countries and rape their national and territorial integrity. It should perhaps be more worrying than whether it is legal to cooperate with allian countries on defence and training and practice. Red has also called for the present government to stand up to our former prime minister, who is now Secretary-General of NATO, because NATO has responded positively to the fact that these countries, after democratic processes, want 4,000 soldiers divided into three countries, because they themselves have no defence, because they also believed that the sky was blue after the Soviet regime collapsed. This is national self-determination. That's what we're about to stand for and defend, and then we don't need that kind of confused signal. Then I guess I'm so concerned that also SV estimates notes that we haven't heard since the SF's time, and possibly one of the roots, NKP, which was a pure apologist for Soviet interests. That is quite worrying, because SV has experience as a government party. They even defended NATO's bombing in Kosovo, of course with some agony, but it's been a long time since, and I see that they are now maneuvering into becoming a clean anti-NATO, anti-Western party. It is frightening if the alternative majority to present itself as an alternative to the current government is to depend on these two parties. It should take the night sleep from several.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2690	Socialism is the policy of the Workers' Party at all times, said Torolf Elster in 1957. After hearing Frank Bakke-Jensen, we can now say that the basic policy is the policy of the Solberg government at any time, completely independent of the facts. So on the ground, it's like the basic policy is solid, even if there's a permanent presence of American soldiers on a base in Norway. The background for this policy lies in weaknesses in its own preparedness. Norway does not have sufficient crew, supplies or capacity to face a conflict. This weakness poses a safety risk because it forces offensive actions to alert the United States. When we do not have access to our own forces that can operate over time, the opportunities for dialogue, negotiation and compromise also disappear. Getting American soldiers on Guards in Trondelag, allied exercises near the Russian border, are measures that show that a future crisis in the north is not going to be a battle where Norway defends its own territory, but instead escalates into a major conflict between the United States and Russia. This is what happens in all countries that do not have access to an independent national crisis management capability, according to Tormod Heier at the Defence Staff School. The low-voltage policy of Norway led during the Cold War did not cause the Soviet Union to worry about American bases and offensive operations from Norway. It gave a neighbourhood that was largely characterized by mutual respect. Now we're at full speed moving away from this situation. Hill-Jensen does not say one word about how the trust relationship, which Norway has spent decades building up, until those degrees are broken down. He does not say one word about the guarantees we have that the unforeseeable Trump USA will respect Norway’s interests by a predictable relationship with Russia when one establishes in Norway with a bridge – just against Russia. I would like to repeat and ask for an answer to some key questions from Hill-Jensen's last article. First, is there a permanent presence of American military personnel on the Guards, or not? Secondly, what power and authority do American military forces have on Norwegian soil? Would they be brought before a Norwegian court if they committed illegal acts on Norwegian soil, or would they not be subject to Norwegian law? These are questions to which the Norwegian people naturally have a right to a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2703	Alliert exercise on Norwegian soil is regulated in the same agreements to which Norwegian soldiers are subject when practicing with allies in other NATO countries. SOFA is called the agreement, a difficult, comprehensive agreement between NATO member countries, which regulates this type of activity. There's plenty of opportunities for the Norwegian people to get involved in it. This is an interesting debate, because we now have two active parties in the Stortinget that are opposed to NATO membership. The input to the questions of allied practice becomes quite different if you are for NATO membership, or if you are against NATO membership. As far as relations with Russia are concerned, I fully agree with the representative of Moxnes that we have balanced that very well over the years. We have done so by having a clear defence policy. It is based on two pillars: a credible Norwegian defence and a credible membership of the NATO Alliance, the Western Defence Cooperation. When the SV and the Central Party quote the head of defence from the Professional Military Council, they forget – probably on purpose – to take that opinion with the head of defence in view of the fact that the Red-Greens had built up the Defence for eight years. So the head of defense, when we had adopted the long-term plan in Stortinget, said that now we have a stake and resources that make that quote no longer valid. It might be a good idea to include the whole story if you're trying to describe something. We're still busy having a good relationship with Russia. We have that by being a clear neighbour through good defence cooperation. We do that through all the other arenas where we cooperate with Russia. I mean that, and I think there is a broad consensus in this Chamber that it is good: fishing cooperation, environmental protection cooperation, search and rescue in the Barents Sea and people-to-people cooperation. It's more important now than it's ever been. I grew up during the cold war. To me, the Soviets were something big, dark, dangerous and unknown behind a boundary. For my daughter, who is 30 years younger than me and has grown up in the same place, Russia is the most exciting neighboring country. Why? Well, because that generation has acquired a knowledge that on either side of a frontier there are people like us. It didn't have us who grew up in the 1960s during the cold war. So we've acquired that knowledge because we got a wall that fell, because we got the sissy that allowed us to start traveling to each other. This is an important part of equity in our relationship with Russia. But the relationship is that we have a credible defense, that we have a credible defence cooperation, and that we are a member of an alliance, so that we are respected by our great neighbour in the east. It is NATO cooperation, allied training and the Norwegian long-term defence plan that ensures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2718	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e2730	We are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3074	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposals 1-4, by Eirik Faret Sakarisassen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 6, by Eirik Faret Sakariassen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of its own case with an assessment of how a right to activity can be designed for all beneficiaries of economic social assistance.’ The Greens and Reds have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3109	The result is that 9 voted in favour and 91 voted against the proposal, and that is why the proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3114	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a separate case to be brought forward by the government assessing how a right and obligation to activity can be designed for all beneficiaries of economic social assistance.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3131	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government in developing the right of activity to pay particular attention to the need for a rapid assessment of the activities that can contribute to a working cycle and to establish a right to a close follow-up to the activities undertaken.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the use of qualification programmes, job opportunities and individual job support, as well as to underline the right to individual level.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the freedom of action of Nav employees so that they can make individual plans for return to working life based on the user’s assumptions’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to strengthen the overall follow-up between the different parts of the Nav offices, and between Nav and other parts of the welfare system, including adapted training, housing-social measures, care, health care or child protection services.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3172	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3188	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-10, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 11 and 12, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3203	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that establishments such as the Tax Office, the Chambers’ Office, the Labour Inspectorate, the Nav, the Planning and Building Set and any other establishment be given more extensive housing so that they can close or stop the illegal operation of establishments.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3222	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to implement the proposal to establish a cross-border withdrawal unit at Ecokrim and to ensure that all police districts set up their own units with a high level of labour crime competence to take backers and confiscate the values of the criminals. Dividends from crime — such as vehicles, cash and apartments — shall be collected.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that supervision develops an obliging strategy for its work against crime at work and to ensure that the labour-criminal centres cooperate with universities and colleges to provide future building managers, business owners and other knowledge of what they need to do to ensure that criminals make the white economy ‘grey’.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3246	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-10, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an economic escalation plan for the operation of the labour-criminal centres, in order to increase their capacity during the large-scale period 2017 to 2021.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a legislative proposal similar to the Swedish ‘Law on data obligations in relation to cooperation against certain organised crime’, which ensures that rules for the sharing of otherwise silent information are infringed or restricted when different agencies/authorities work together with the control and investigation of special crime areas.’ [[2016:774]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asking the government to propose to amend Section 7 of the Police Act in such a way that it is clear that the police have a clear authority to intervene and to avert offences in the territory of other authorities as well.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to restore the tax-crime units and to authorise the Tax Agency to impose a fee in the event of a direct breach of law and the possibility of directly seizing the proceeds of criminal offences.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the Tax Administration has the power to provide on-the-spot reactions in the case of unreported pay for both employees and employers, as well as in the case of non-compulsory registration and/or illegal collection of VAT.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for simplified procedures for the Labour Inspectorate, so that they can impose and infringement charges without having to go through today’s extensive proceedings with notice, and empower the Labour Inspectorate to ask people to show identification outside of the HMS card when the Labour Inspectorate checks whether people have a correct salary and adequate working conditions.’ [[ID]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the Labour Inspectorate may use its instruments against establishments which are in breach of the obligation to provide information, as set out below. § 18-5 of the Working Environment Act, by including § 18-5 in the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 18-6.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asked to establish arrangements for closer follow-up from supervision and LO coordinators on major projects.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the police, the Labour Inspectorate, the Tax Agency and Nav carry out several unannounced inspections in sectors that are particularly vulnerable to occupational crime. The most serious issues must be given priority both in the investigation phase and followed up with rapid and severe reactions and ensure that work-life crime is seen in the context of the fight against organised crime in order to detect the behindrs and networks.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose changes to the Foreign Affairs Act in order to penalise the person who exploits the situation of foreigners in an improper manner.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3326	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3342	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1, 2 and 4-7, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 9, from Tage Pettersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 10, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 4-7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue its efforts to enable the Lottery Authority to require banks to report annually on transactions to non-regulated gambling companies and payment providers.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue its efforts to enable the Lottery Authority to oblige banks to reject transactions to non-regulated gambling companies.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider stronger restrictions on advertising for legal players in gambling and to assess whether measurement methods other than money use must be used in regulating the scope.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to allow the Lottery Authority to impose an infringement fee in the event of a breach of the prohibition on the marketing of non-regulated gambling.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose that the Lottery Authority should be given the opportunity to investigate matters, inter alia, with access to public registers, and to require the submission of information by actors contributing, in whole or in part, to the marketing or implementation of non-regulated gambling.’; Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the basis for drawing State pension funds abroad from gambling companies for an assessment in the context of the annual management notification of the fund.’ [[SPU]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3399	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to stop gambling with non-regulated gambling companies by introducing DNS blocking of their websites. The Government is requested to report on the progress plan for this work in its budget for 2019.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3418	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose the introduction of requirements for registered games related to all digital gambling, but to allow for exceptions for some digital games such as: "Pantelotteriet." The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3442	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3458	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 8, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the Government to return to the State budget for 2019 with proposals to extend the grant schemes and expand the area for the write-down of student loans after completion of teacher training.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3489	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate more teachers and lecturers to take temporary courses in school during their education.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3508	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to provide an overview of the total need for new teachers and the need for further training of teachers in school who do not meet new requirements of competence today.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive and good recruitment policy which will ensure enough teachers with a high level of research competence and up-to-date professional competence.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting as soon as possible with several measures for the qualification of unqualified persons employed in teaching positions.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size of the budget asks the Government to legislate on the national guidance system for newly educated teachers and, in the context of the revised national budget, to submit to the Stortinget a proposal on how to finance it.’.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement a national recruitment campaign and to stimulate local recruitment for teachers’ students in the last part of the education.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide its own big message on recruiting teachers with measures to ensure sufficient qualified teachers throughout initial training.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3560	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they are now supporting the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3877	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3888	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3914	During the debate Per Espen Stoknes put forward a proposal on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA. The President noted that during the debate the proposal was amended to read as follows: "The government asks the government to propose replacing "homophile orientation" with "sexual orientation, gender expression or gender identity" in the provisions of the Criminal Code, see § 185. Hateful statements and § 186. Discrimination.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-07.ana.ud512e3967	In Case No: 11 and 12 no voting theme is available.
