ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e28	The called alternate of the More and Romsdal counties, Tove-Lise Torve, now takes the seat. The Workers' Group has been informed that the convocation of the alternate representative of the Rogaland County, Erik Ludvigsen, granted for 11 October, has been withdrawn. – This message is taken into account. Three permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Alliance that, from 1 October to 12 October, the authorised representative of Morten Wold shall be entitled to sickness leave from 10 October until further notice: by the Workers' Party Group on the leave of Mr Åsmund Aukrust on 16 and 17 October to take part in the 139th session of the Interparliamentary Union in Geneva by the Group of the Left on welfare leave of the representative of Terje Breivik on 16 and 17 October. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Mani Hussaini For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas For the Hordaland County: Idun Kristine Away
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e87	Tone Heimdal Brataas is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e98	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose, on the basis of the third paragraph of Section 35 of the Rules of Procedure, that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended to end the scheduled wholesale meeting on Thursday 11 October. – No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal, and it is then deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e116	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e125	On the same day as the state budget was presented, the United Nations Panel on Climate Change presented a new special report. It mentioned what it takes for the world to reach the 1.5 degree goal over the 2 degree goal, and where we're going. The conclusions were gloomy; the sea rises, the ice melts, and the weather gets wetter and wilder. The summer of drought in Norway showed that we also see the effect of it. The message in the report is that comprehensive action is urgently needed. This is true globally, and so is the case in Norway. In the speech of the Minister of Finance and in the budget, we heard a well-known message. In the case of a plan for cut in the so-called non-quota sector, i.e.: transport, construction and construction, waste and agriculture, the government is still awaiting an agreement with the EU. There is a lot of good climate policy coming from the EU, in EU countries, and we support cooperation with the EU to achieve the target of 40 pst. Cut by 2030. The government writes in the budget that it will draw up a plan to meet Norway’s climate commitments in the non-quota sector when – and I repeat ‘when’ – an agreement with the EU is in place. Then I would like to ask: these negotiations with the EU have been going on for almost three years. So we have spent three out of fifteen years in the period from the Paris Agreement to the 2030 objective of concluding an agreement with the EU. And we don't have a plan. We do not have concrete targets for cutting here at home in the non-quota sector. Can the Prime Minister explain why this dialogue with the EU has been going on for three years? Why does it take so long? And can she confirm what the climate minister suggested here in Stortinget the other day – that the agreement will come into place by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e136	Like the representative Jonas Gahr Støre, I am concerned that we are going to achieve the climate goals we have set ourselves, and not least that we are going to contribute to the objectives we have also achieved under the Paris agreement: that we should have a model for something that was one of the major breakthroughs Norway has been going through – that every five years there will also be reporting on strengthened objectives in this agreement. This means that we need to look at how, in the light of the new IPCC report, we will continue to strengthen the targets for all the countries that have been notified, because what it clearly says is that the sum of country notifications is not good enough for us to reach the 1.5 degree target. There we agree on the starting point – that we need to look at further measures. The reason why the agreement with the EU takes time is that the EU should first take its decisions on how it is. Then the EU will complete the system they have now put in place, on how forests are integrated. In fact, it is the biggest question of uncertainty — how forest is calculated in relation to our actions, how much burden we have, and how much it is. It's not like the government didn't do anything. We presented a big message showing the list of measures dealt with in the Storting last year, which also shows the direction of a number of sectors. Fortunately, at the same time, we see that the results are coming. Now we have a decline in e.g. the transport sector, which is the largest non-quota sector in Norway. Total emissions went down by 1.7 pst. from 2016 to 2017 in Norway. So it is mainly the transport sector that is responsible for the reductions, i.e. in the non-quota sector. As far as agriculture and fish are concerned, we are not negotiating with the EU, but we are actually negotiating with the parties, and I thought that there was a great deal of support in Stortinget for the parties to be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e149	I still believe that we could have started without having to wait for the EU in this field. However, with regard to the decline in the transport sector, the government writes in the budget that emissions in road traffic are mainly declining due to an increase in the share of blending biofuels. 46 pst. of the Norwegian biofuel was palm oil. This means that emissions go down slightly in Norway, and then they go up slightly in Indonesia. The size has decided that the public should not buy palm oil, simply told because public transport should not go on that fuel, and the government has not followed up. So when the Right and the Prime Minister can now boast that emissions are going down, it's because the government is breaking with its own government platform, because it says: ‘National measures shall not contribute to the transfer of emissions or to the increase of global emissions.’;» So last year was 46 pst. Norwegian biofuel palm oil. Can the Prime Minister then simply confirm that it has led to relocation, not cut, of emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e158	I can confirm that it has led to global cuts. All of the operations here show the global cut. I heard several articles in the throne debate claiming that we were now bathing in palm oil, and that it was not cut globally. The cuts, also taking into account land effects and other factors, have thus been estimated to be 330,000 tonnes of CO 2 equivalent due to increased use of biofuels in Norway. So the myth that's being tried to create that it's not global cut as a result of this is not right – it's wrong. So it's cut, but it's smaller than the cuts that we get nationally. It's important to us that that's why we also increase the proportion of advanced biofuels every time we increase the requirement of incorporation, so we get and more of what's not palm oil based, so we get results. I want to remind the representative Jonas Gahr Støre that the Workers' Party has been high on the track that they have had plans to cut more than the government. Many of them have been based on biofuels today. Then we work for more advanced biofuels, but there's a lot of palm oil, and that would have been even with the plans of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e168	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e173	Thank you for the Prime Minister's reference to the Labour Party's policy. Together with SV, we presented 37 concrete proposals to cut greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors of our society: shipping, construction, agriculture – all sectors. One of the proposals was to go further with carbon capture and storage. All the reports we read say that without carbon capture and storage, we will not reach the 2-degree target, and at least not the 1.5-degree target. Here, Norway has a special premise, a special experience. Nevertheless, the budget is unclear, and questions are asked from industry, from NHO, Norwegian Industry and businesses. Will carbon capture at Klemetsrud and in Brevik receive funding next year, or only until the project phase is over on 1 September 2019? And since the Prime Minister is here, there might be reason to clarify: Can she clarify whether they will receive support next year, or only until 1 September 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e180	We have submitted a budget that will enable us to implement the phase we are now in. That stage is important for us to be able to decide on final investment measures. It is important to remember that this government is actually trying to take care of both taxpayers’ money and to ensure that we get to the CCS project – unlike the red-green government, which created a framework with so much prestige that they finally had to clean up the CCS project they had invested everything in, because they had not thought about what models and structures would be like, and the costs were charged to taxpayers. It was a project that seemed to cost 25 billion. kr. That's why we're moving forward step by step. I'm absolutely sure that many people would like us to print out blank on the taxpayers' account. We believe that this is a self-interest in business. That's why we're funding each step, and then we're taking a stand on the steps. Then we work together to get more stakeholders, because what the IPCC report shows is that this is a good move for the world. If so, for example. EU countries and research communities will be involved in the implementation in the future, and we are working on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e187	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e192	This was an unclear answer as to whether there will be allocation out of the year or until September 1st, next year, but now leave it. Another area in which the government has put forward a lot of publicity is the increase in renewable energy investments above the aid budget. The appropriations when our government went off in 2013, were 1.4 billion. kr for this purpose. So the Right Party and the Advance Party after this have been cut in several rounds in this support, so that this year it was reduced by 1 billion. kr. One major issue in this budget was that it was now increased again, by 430 million. kr. That's good, but it's after years of cutting. And after the government's turnaround, there is reason to ask: can the Prime Minister clarify whether the Right Party and the Advance Party in future budgets will be investing or cutting in this area? Here too there is a need for predictability for those actors out there who will respond to a Norwegian budget allocation to do so and know what is coming. Cut for many years, now up again – what can we wait for in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e200	We provide our budgets every year for the Storting. If we continue with the good economic development in Norway, the percentage on the Jeløya platform will also be a good basis for more money in the development budget. Then there'll also be room to do more of this. But it is true that this government did some re-priorities in development policy. We prioritised the area that the red-green government had systematically prioritised down, namely education in the world. We've doubled the appropriations. The share of education in our assistance is now the same as it was when the Bondevik II government went off, because it was a clear and clear wish from all four parties that were in opposition to the red-green government, that the way you cut the budgets for education was not right. We thought we were going to bet on girls being educated, we were going to take a leading role in the world, and we have. We have used the money to invest in people – an incredibly important long-term investment. Then it sometimes goes at the expense of other areas, but I actually think that the training investment we have made has certainly been a good basis for us to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e205	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e210	And we have supported it in good Norwegian tradition, as the former government also supported our vaccination effort. We tend to stick together about such bets and not polish about them. But one last question is one of the important measures to engage people in climate and environmental action is related to waste, recycling, re-use — what is sometimes called a circular economy. We had a debate about a big message about it earlier this year in the hall. There was not much content in that message, but some decisions came from the Storting to intensify it. In the EU, the circular economy is becoming very exciting. In the countries around us, the same thing happens. But we can't afford to use natural resources in a way that leads to their being thrown. In that debate, the government was required to put forward a strategy on how Norway will implement the circular economy — a plan, some goals and some initiatives that will encourage people to re-use and use natural resources in a better way. There was nothing about this in the state budget. Can the Prime Minister clarify when such a strategy comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e219	We made a big message because we thought it was important to stimulate the circular economy. In Norway, there is a high proportion of people who make sure that we collect and recycle the livestock we have in our country. Much of it goes to heating, but there's also a lot going on recycling. We have good and long traditions and a good system for it. Then we also work with technologies for better recovery. One of the areas in which the Kristiansand catapult works, the new measure introduced by the government to create new industries, is the recycling of heavy metals and also dangerous metals. Among other things, they do a lot considering how to break up batteries and take care of this. We also work a lot with research and development. I can't say on the stand-up just when a strategy comes, but we follow up the decision in Stortinget and will come back to a strategy. But we're working a lot on the way. We work, among others. a lot of just being able to take into account the new areas where we need to recycle, and one of our objectives is, among other things. that hazardous waste will be much less hazardous in the future, because we will be able to decompose and recycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e226	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e231	When I read the state budget, I didn't think it was true, some of what it says. It is quite clear that the government believes that if we are to save the climate, we must cut Norwegian food production violently – that Norwegian cows are a major challenge in relation to the world’s climate challenges and that we have to cut the number of animals and calculate it as 60,000 Norwegian cows. So you could say, is it that dangerous? If you read the report to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, it says that there will be more instability in world food production in the future, and that it is important that individual countries be able to increase food production, and you can see from the coming climate calculations that there is a possibility of increased food production in the Nordic region. The Swedish public investigation says to increase production, precisely from the point of view of climate. Why does Prime Minister Erna Solberg think it is wise to reduce the Norwegian ability to produce food in the name of the climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e238	I think one of the important things we have to be able to do in Norwegian political debate is what is political proposal, what is the government's proposal, and what is the review of reports by the government, for example. on climate. What the representative now refers to is not the government's strategy, but a report from the Directorate-General for the Environment's report on what can be done to achieve results with major reductions in agriculture. As the representative knows, a report by the Environment Directorate is not necessarily a government strategy paper. I also think it would be difficult to get many of the things that stand there. But some of the things that stand there, I think we should all agree on, for example. reducing food waste. I feel that it has also been decided in Stortinget that we should work to reduce food waste. Reduced food waste will also have an impact on agriculture, because less of what is produced is wasted, and there will be less demand for it. So some relationships we have to take with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e243	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e248	The government is now negotiating with Norwegian agriculture on Norwegian food production and thus also the Norwegian food industry. On the basis of that negotiation, the government places the report that Erna Solberg is now taking away from. When reading the wording of the State budget, it is clear that beef consumption should be reduced and the consumption of carrots and vegetables increased. So you go from beef to carrots. If you base what it says, the Norwegian consumer will eat about. 30 pst. smaller beef in the future and rather eat carrots and fish. I thought it was almost the program for the Green Party I read. Can I understand it now that Erna Solberg believes it is wrong to reduce Norwegian beef production corresponding to the figure underlying the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e253	I mean, people are going to be allowed to eat whatever they want. They're allowed to eat according to their own preferences. Of course, they must take into account their own health and what they themselves feel is their contribution to the impact. So I'd say both carrots and fish are healthy. It's good to eat more of that. I try, and fail often, to say it like that. [[Laughter]] We'll all have to put on our own coat. We have negotiations with the agricultural organisations because we're going to bring down the emissions. These include: how to better operate a farm, how to reduce CO2 emissions. Research related to cows and less methane emissions in the future – genetic research is a good thing in Norway, and has been good for very many years – to see if it can actually be optimised, that the production of our red meat releases less methane and therefore leads to less climate impact. Agriculture is also part of our emissions challenges. We also need to make changes in agriculture in order to reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e262	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e268	The report that came from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change night to Monday is incredibly dramatic and must set an even more serious tone for our debate on climate policy. What climate research tells us is that if we are to have any kind of opportunity to achieve the goals to which Norway has joined and to which, in principle, there is a full consensus in this Chamber that we are to achieve, climate policy must become much more radical. Just after the report was presented, there was a government budget in which the government is fully open to the fact that one is not prepared to achieve the 2020 targets, that one is not prepared to achieve the 2030 targets – and not even further into the future, when it will already be too late. No Norwegian government has done what is needed to change the course, and this indicates that we can only do this together. That is why I have been amazed that until now this government has said no to a broad climate settlement. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e277	Firstly, I would like to thank the representative for the self-recognition of the government he himself has been in before, as sometimes it seems that that government did a lot. It did very little; there were very few concrete measures. Under the government I have run, there has been a lot more in both the comparisons in Stortinget and the follow-up in the state budgets, and we see results, with lower emissions. With regard to the issue of having a new climate settlement, I believe that we need to put in place the agreement with the EU first before we go in and discuss concrete measures beyond those we are already in the process of doing, including the measures we have. Because the way we calculate agriculture is very important to Norway’s commitment. Then it is important to remember that the commitments we get with the EU are much tougher than those we have in our own climate law. This will mean that if we fail to achieve the annual reductions through it, we may need to increase the reductions more in the next round. That means we're putting a pretty strong reminder about getting even bigger results in the future. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e286	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e291	Now I tried to be constructive, and then I just got a list of self-confidence from the government, which has thus this week admitted that not reaching a target in 2020, not reaching a target in 2030, not reaching any goal at all. If the Prime Minister's attitude towards this report is really just to brag by itself, it's a very depressing starting point. Let's take palm oil: the Prime Minister explained with his figures instead that Norway's use of certified palm oil raises the demand for palm oil in general, and there is no disagreement among the parties in this room that it is the main driver of deforestation in Indonesia. This means that the emitters Erna Solberg boasts, in reality contribute to deforestation and emissions growth elsewhere in the world. So now we can read in the budget that the government will not go further with the proposal to ban palm oil diesel on Norwegian car tanks. According to what is said in the newspapers today, it is not because it will not work, but because it is in doubt that it may be contrary to the EEA or the WTO. Is this really not important enough for the government to at least test whether it is possible to implement such a ban? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e300	One of the most important things we do now is to create stability around a biofuel system and the integration requirements in the future to ensure that we get more advanced biofuels delivered to the market. The biggest setback for biofuels in Norway occurred when the red-green government started charging and removed the basis for already established businesses. I know that SV was against it, but it was a consequence of that at the time. Norwegian advanced biofuel production decreased significantly. We now have many interesting projects in Norway, for example: in forestry, combining the use of waste in the forest with the creation of new enterprises. Then it is important that we have good framework conditions. It is important that we constantly work on tightening up in terms of interference conditions. Then I'm against a general ban on palm oil because I think we also have to work on how to operate palm oil sustainably, based on our sustainability targets. Jobs are needed in this world as well as what the 17 goals the world has set are saying. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e309	Sorry, the number is out. Tore Storehaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e316	The budget proposal that we have now received should be a milestone in Norwegian climate history, because it's the first time we see the effect of climate law, and it's also the first time we get numbers that show what it would mean to reach the 1.5 degree goal. I notice that the Prime Minister says that she feels that Stortinget has told us to have less food waste. Yes, we do – we even want a food law that obliges the government to do so. In Stortinget, we have also said that we want a CO 2 fund in place, and we want progress in the negotiations between the government and the NHO. But I want to challenge the Prime Minister for another part of the climate debate, which is now drowning in palm oil. It is that our consumption is also about the greenhouse gas emissions that we have. NTNU says in a research report that 60 pst. emissions are about private consumption. It's the same time that we buy twice as much clothes as in 1999. And we're going to buy almost two million phones, even seven out of ten would have repaired them if they could. In Sweden they cut VAT for repairs, in Norway we do not connect the climate to consumption. Does the Prime Minister agree that this is a problem? If so, what will the government do?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e328	I agree that we should look at ways of stimulating climate-friendly behaviour. These include: what we do when we have the large tax reliefs on an electric car. We also have that on other measures. But how detailed, and how much to do that, we're going to have a discussion about. It is difficult to create a targeted charging system that always takes care of the climate impact of what you do and what you repair. In large parts bearings, e.g., emissions from the parts used can also be obtained. That's why we're making a more complicated system. That's the basis for thinking that our VAT system should be simple, manageable, without any adjustments. It is also an important objective in this – also because it is an important and large source of income to finance the well-being we have. Many of the climate measures we have are funded by the State budget, and VAT revenue is high.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e335	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e340	Now it was very tempting to start by stressing that there is nothing wrong with carrots – and also carrots are all-right animals. As responsible politicians, we must protect the welfare state and secure the income of the state in the future. Over the next decades, Norway and the world will have to change to become renewable and sustainable. The alternative is natural disasters, rising sea levels and more people on the run because of hunger and more conflicts. The conversion is also profitable. The acknowledged New Climate Economy report estimates that the world will make 26 000 billion. dollar by 2030 by achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Renewable and sustainable energy solutions will create 65 million new jobs and save 700,000 lives annually. Norway has the technology, natural resources and capital to take a leading role in this effort – one does not have to wait for global agreements. But for every year we spend, this job gets harder. So my question is, when can we expect the government to get on the right track, and with what measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e349	I believe that we are working a lot to get the green shift – new jobs and changes in the Norwegian economy. Let's do that, for example. by being one of the most systematic countries with a CO 2 tax that stimulates less emissions, and therefore produces better technologies, which reduce emissions in the various industries through the production method that makes it profitable to find new ones. One of the reasons Equinor now launches the issue of using sea wind much more to electrify part of their already installed oil platforms is that one has been working on a technology, with the support of Enova, but also that the CO 2 tax contributes to the search for new technological ways to go. So let's do that. in the area where Norway really needs to take a boost, in the transport sector, where there is significant technological development, not least where we are already strong, in green shipping, and it stimulates the government much more through the measures we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e363	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e368	Why does Prime Minister Erna Solberg think that it is right that Per Magne Johansen and 700 other seafarers on Color Line should now lose their job? Why is that right? Why does Prime Minister Erna Solberg think it is right that those who work at Lerum, Oskar Sylte, Roma, Telemark Source Water, Ringnes and the other non-alcoholic beverages producers in Norway should go into a new year with uncertainty? What is the reason why she believes that these workers should have that uncertainty? The NHO Food and Drinks say it right – I’m going to read from the NHO to the Right-leader: ‘Sequential and irresponsible charging policy’, and ‘Treats jobs and value creation throughout the food and drink industry’. Does Erna Solberg agree with the NHO, or does she disagree? In her own state budget, the 350-kroner limit for online commerce is a major disadvantage for Norwegian commerce. That industry employs hundreds of thousands of people. Why does Erna Solberg think it's right that we should have a 350-kroner limit that makes those who are engaged in the trade, for example. in Sweden, will there be an advantage in the Norwegian groceries market, and will it punish those who then want to bet on and work to create jobs in our country? A new report that came a short time ago says it threatens 1,700 jobs. My challenge to Prime Minister Erna Solberg is: What is the reason why the 700 on Color Line are going to lose their job? What is the reason for going into a new year of unrest in the Norwegian food industry? What is the reason why you want to help Swedish commerce and not Norwegian?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e379	I understood a lot of questions during the article. I'll try to answer them. I'll start with the question of Color Line. We set up a joint committee, which came up with changes in the field of taxation and in the maritime-related regimes. They made a report in 2015. One of the measures was to amend the definitions of supervisors as to who could be a member of the NIS and who could be a member of the NOR register. This has the consequence of, among other things: Color Line will have an opportunity to register companies in the NIS register and still have ferry traffic here. The background for that selection was that there had been a lot of noise. There were threats about the relocation of Color Line with 2,400 workplaces. We chose to stand by ensuring that we had many of the jobs on land, in the ‘action’ and everything else, ensuring that we have headquarters in Norway and making changes to minimize the loss of jobs. We still believe that this is a challenge. That's why we stand for it as a party-based selection made – by majority and minority. All improvements to the scheme have been made. But this one disadvantage for those who are employed is not fulfilled. We think that's right. Then we have also reduced a sample that is also made up of parties, who will work on the question of the distinction between sugar-free and sugar-containing mineral water drinks. It shall be composed of the parties. I assume that there will be recommendations on how we make the changes. These are challenges in our system, such as: It's about how we differentiate things. In fact, most parts of the Stortinget have wanted unhealthy food to have higher VAT than healthy food, to have taxed in different ways. It has been in the budgets. We need to find ways to do this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e390	One of the strange outcomes of this random and irresponsible charging policy, as the NHO calls it, is that light beer has lower excise duties than non-alcoholic beverages. Had mineral water been added to a small drop of light beer, there would have been a lower excise duty. It shows how unfair and irresponsible the tax policy of the government has been. My challenge is: the government's own budgetary document puts in place a limit of EUR 350 which is a disadvantage for the Norwegian commercial industry. Norwegian commerce is the industry that employs most people, which gives most people work, and then the government writes that the policy they themselves pursue is a disadvantage to that industry. In addition, there have been such huge increases in fees that you had last year, and you have had one year to investigate and make changes, and then you haven't. Can Erna Solberg defend that this is a good policy, or does she disagree with what is in the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e399	Firstly, I would like to stress that NHO’s comments on the State budget are that this is a good government budget – it is good for Norwegian businesses and Norwegian jobs, and it follows up and is adapted to the economic situation. They have given a positive response to this state budget. The impression that the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, is now trying to give that this is a negative budget for businesses and jobs is not correct, nor is it the opinion of the NHO. The 350-kronor limit is not a new limit. The limit was NOK 250, it was increased a little three years ago, but it has been there. This is a simplification of customs treatment for people who are going to buy small things from abroad. What it says is that we now see how to create a simplified customs treatment in other ways. But this was a simplification measure that has made it easier for small consumers to get something quickly from abroad and elsewhere, and this is an old part of our charging system, and we're looking at. Towards 2020, the EU will come up with a new system, and then we will look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e406	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e411	When the Prime Minister wants to explain why the government wants to allow Color Line to replace 700 Norwegian seafarers with cheap foreign labour, it points to a nearly five-year-old document. At that time it was more favourable for Color Line to be registered in Denmark than in Norway. This has been contested by the opposition, and the State budget rightly states that the conditions for registration in Norway are better than the conditions for registration in Denmark. Despite the fact that the fact has changed, the government has not changed its policy. It looks like it's an independent goal to get rid of these 700 Norwegian seafarers. My question to the Prime Minister is: why is it so important for the government to allow Color Line to move 700 Norwegian seafarers from the sea and over to Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e420	First, it's important to remember that the crew here consists of far more than those who are seafarers. The main emphasis is restaurant workers and people who work in hotels and service on these boats, just so we are aware of which working groups this is mainly about. The manning needed in NIS to be supported today is still a seafarer and seafarer. It is possible that the representative Pollestad wants to gamble with a full removal of Color Line. I don't want to do that. In addition, as politicians, I believe that we should be predictable in this respect. Framework conditions have been adopted, but due to the need to make changes and to have the ESA-approved scheme with the changes made, it took a little longer to put it in place. I think that Norwegian politicians should be predictable in terms of the framework conditions we have created, because the companies make their arrangements for these, and that's what Color Line has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e427	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e432	In Sogndal, the Lerum family has built a viable enterprise that provides work for many in the countryside, and as a source of value creation in the district. Lerum further processes Norwegian raw materials, such as berries and fruit. I visited them on Monday, and they don't ask for subsidies and benefits, but to drop more and more heavy taxes, because viable communities need profitable jobs. These might have been my words, but they're the words of the Vice-Chairman in the Right, Jan Tore Sanner, who was one of them as the election to Sogndal and Lerum. Here I have some nice pictures of Erna Solberg on the ferry, where she challenges the Bond team to click on the red-green government and get the white product fee. There was no doubt that if Erna Solberg got power, the fee would be a mere fairy tale. What's going on? Nothing until 2018 – then a fee will increase by 16 million. kr for Lerum. That's 1 million. kr more than they have had on average over the last few years. Is that how this government will build viable jobs? What does Erna Solberg say to Director Trine Lerum Hjellhaug today? Will she fulfill her promises, as she and the Right Guidance have given so many times?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e439	The representative of Navarsete is wrong when she says that nothing has been done. This government made changes to the charging system and lowered the fee for jams and drinks that consisted of more than 50 pst. berries, which were free of added sugar, that is, what was the healthy part of this. It was done with a significant reduction, which was positive for it. So we've made sure that the healthy part of Lerum's production, linked to jams and other things, has been less taxed during this government. So it is wrong when the representative Navarsete says that nothing has been done after this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e445	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e450	The Prime Minister says people are small-minded from abroad. No, people trade tons of candy from abroad – and not just candy. In the past, it was considered that, and associated with, luckily received bottle mail. All the bottles and boxes that are currently coming by mail from abroad are a major accident for Norwegian workplaces. Large international companies, such as Coca Cola in Lørenskog, have cut investments and assessed the future in Norway. Tradition-rich companies like Oskar Sylte and Roma are at risk of losing their jobs. Why is it reasonable to maintain subsidisation of foreign online commerce while maintaining the level of charges in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e455	It is quite right that there has been an increase in the purchase of candy after the decision to increase the sugar levy made during the budgetary procedure last year. Now we have proposed to reverse the sugar charge to the level it was at before, that is, the old red-green level, and then it is at the same level as it was before. So there's a simplification of the 350-kroner limit, where the postage is included in this. It's far below what only the price increase would have been since the time it was introduced to have this simplification. And then I have said that we see that there are also other ways of simplifying the system, which simplified customs clearance systems that the EU is also implementing from 2020, as is currently the case. Then we'll look further at this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e462	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e467	There has been an important debate on Norwegian jobs, and there is also a large group in the private sector that we need to see. The lowest income group in the private sector has experienced a continuous decline in the last four years, and since 2008 the 10 % lowest wage in Norway has fallen in real wages by 1.6 pst. It's a group the Workers' Party wants to see. Then I'm alarmed that the Prime Minister's answer only dismisses the Color Line case by saying that these are people who work in hotels, restaurants and serving. Yeah, that's it, and they're doing a very important job for the rest of us to have a good life. So my question is clear and clear: will Erna Solberg make sure that we can lift these kind of groups and their families, that make an important effort for all of us?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e472	I would like to remind you that Norway is on its way into a situation of labour shortage again. Labour competition is going to increase. I am absolutely sure that those who are well qualified to work in other industries will get a job if they can no longer work on Color Line, precisely because we have a shortage of labour in the future. When it comes to questions about wage negotiations, I am strongly in favour of tripartite cooperation. And if there's one thing I don't do, it's to comment on how the pay negotiations are to be done between the parties. I would have been given considerable opportunity by the parties, especially LO, if I had begun to take the lead in what the various occupational groups would achieve in the various wage negotiations. I also thought that they had respect for the Stortinget, not least in the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e479	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e484	Here I think the Prime Minister misunderstood the question. Wages and salaries negotiations were not mentioned. There are a lot of things we do in this room that affect the way your wages develop, including, you know, There was a majority in the UK in ours to ensure that we work for regular jobs and cut out short-term old-fashioned renting of poorly paid labour. It will obviously be a part of lifting the group that I'm talking about here, and it could be important for people who work in hotels, restaurants and the construction industry. It is clear that we need much better governance of Norway here. We can't see that there's someone coming from here. The highest paid group has reached 10.4 pst in the same period. in wages and salaries, while the worst-paid have fallen into real wages and salaries. We have to try again: will the Prime Minister make sure to join the Labour Party in the fight for permanent jobs, or will the Prime Minister continue to be in line with ideological, short-term labour hiring?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e493	I don't think the representative's statements describe the government's position on this. I want to underline what the government actually proposed to Stortingen in this matter. Firstly, we have been strengthened by the fact that regular work is the general rule of Norwegian working life, through the changes in the employment environment laws we have made. Secondly, we proposed that we go into stronger regulation against rent where there was evidence that renting created challenges in working life, namely in constructions and installations in Oslo and Akershus, where it could be measured. That's why the government wasn't ideologically suspended in anything. We were really concerned about looking at the terrain: where are there problems, where are we going to find solutions, where are public authorities going to go in and regulate? Then we regulate where we see that the problems are. What the bulk of population has done now is regulate for everyone. You regulate where you have to hire seasonal labour, you regulate where it may be more difficult to provide labour in a poor situation – it may even be counterproductive, that you get more rent from renting because you can rent at a lower price.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e498	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e503	There are many different things about how to create or secure jobs in Norway, and I want to go back to the 350-kroner limit. For me, it is quite absurd that you can order on a Norwegian website and have to pay 25 pst. VAT, but if you order goods on the Internet from a foreign website, you avoid VAT. It is discrimination against Norwegian farms. It's demanding for a lot of people that you can easily order small things from abroad, and especially from China. What's even more absurd is that if you order from China, the postage is subsidised because it's considered a u-country in that context. One thing is Norwegian workplaces, but think about the environmental impact when small packages – and there is not just one package, there are millions of packages – are being shipped by plane instead of being packed on continents and sold legally. In addition, these products are often not as well controlled. One knows that there are strict checks for which types of goods enter Norwegian shops, it is not through this scheme. So when the majority in the Grand Duchy said that here the government should propose how it can be removed, why does the government still choose to doubt that limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e511	What it says, and as we clearly do, is that we follow up on how we can have other simplification measures that make it easier for customs clearance and customs treatment if you want to buy things from abroad. As I have pointed out before: this is an action that was taken as a simplification, and has been in the charging system for many decades. The adjustment up, which was made a few years ago, is much smaller than that only the price increase has been in that period. Then there should have been a significantly higher level. So it's been for the sake of consumers and to be able to buy. I agree with the observation that it is strange when China is a u-country in the categorisation. It's hard to convert, it's an international type of categorisation. At the same time, we need to be careful not to limit what is a development strategy for many developing countries – that they can actually export and get income – and that we, for example, should now limit ourselves. have some postage agreements that make it easier to send things. Because people in the Third World also need jobs. It should be sustainable if we are to achieve the climate goals, but also create jobs for people in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e518	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e523	The inequality of power and wealth in Norway is increasing, and one of the most important tools we have to do something about it is a strong welfare state. Under this government, unrest is growing in more and more parts of the Community-Norway. We saw in our kindergarten riots related to the lack of follow-up of parents and employees' desire for better staffing. We've seen a maternity riot related to the unrest that many birthing women and midwives around the country feel about the situation in the maternity wards. There is a great deal of concern about crime prevention, which leads to the risk of what has been Norway’s success model in combating crime. There is concern in child protection, where the red-green child protection lift has been replaced by a standstill. We know that the Labour Inspectorate and the Health Inspectorate have been cut that go beyond their ability to be a protection for workers and patients. This reality makes up the government. Take the hospitals in this week's state budget, e.g. At first, something that looks like a useful budget increase, but if you turn a little bit further in the back of the budget, it disappears hundreds of millions. Actually, there's no growth to talk about for hospitals, and there's increasing pressure on those who work there, and on patients. The reason for this is the so-called ABE reform, which is not a reform, but a cheap budget line, cheese-related, that Erna Solberg has now made 10 billion. kr with, in what looks like increased room of action, in its years as Prime Minister. She gives with one hand, and then she takes with the other. So the reality is that there are far less bets on well-being than what she's giving the impression of. When is the Prime Minister going to admit that many of her so-called health and well-being efforts are really much less, and that part of the price of tax cuts to the few is well-off for the many?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e532	It was a very general question with a lot of claims. Let me grasp one of the claims made – that there has been a standstill in child protection. We have implemented a reform of child protection that shifts more power downwards to the municipalities, followed by a large-scale commitment to measures of competence to raise the quality of the child protection decisions adopted. On the contrary, we have been committed to child protection – it is not a standstill for child protection. Because we actually need more competence. And when we see how some municipalities both break the law when we supervise it, or do not intervene early enough – we use emergency placements too quickly because we have not done so in the past – we need precisely the measures we have taken, namely quality improvements through the enhancement of child protection competences. Systematically, I could have gone through all the claims. It's not possible to do that. But it's like this is a budget that primarily prioritises well-being. This is a budget where welfare growth is high and where we contribute to the improvement of important schemes. For example, the health sector is shielded from large parts of the ABE cut. There is once again a little bit of efficiency improvement, but they have had much less cut because we are increasing the basic allocation for health businesses at the same time, and there are proposals for 1.7 pst. to growth in treatment provision in the budget provided for in the health sector. That means it's bet on more, not less, treatment. There is a commitment for more people to get an offer, and not least we now see that we have been focusing on measures to improve the quality of the processes. The patient experience is enhanced by the streamlined way of dealing with the package sequences, which we are now expanding to many more areas, not least to mentally ill, so that they also have to experience better quality and more continuity in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e541	The child-restraint lift, the increase in crew, is stopped during this government. It is a reality that a large part of what the government says is growth in the hospital economy is being removed through the ABE cut in another part of the budget. It is seen in the field of welfare in the country, that this government gives far less to well-being than it claims, through its cheese ratio. Private consumption shall increase most at the top – in front of the community. This is also linked to the unsocial cuts this government is carrying out, which are affecting the poor and sick. Last week, government parties voted against a number of SV proposals to identify the consequences of these cuts for the people affected. Now, after the state budget, the list could unfortunately be even longer, because now we have had restrictions on the tax restriction rule – which is important for many disabled people – municipal cuts that will hit the multi-disabled, and the law change that would help families with seriously ill children did not come this time either. Why is it that Erna Solberg always sends the bill for the high-class tax party to the poor and sick?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e550	The representative Lightbaken repeats a claim that I have heard that he has repeated over several years, linked to how unsocial it is that we adjust to the impact point limit for heavy users in the municipal sector. It's often with a very moral indignant that he does it. Firstly, this does not affect the rights of any multi-disabled person. Perhaps the representative Lysbakken should stop spreading that we cut in the offer to people with disabilities because we are making changes in the settlement between the state and the municipality, so that is not correct. The privileges are maintained. And if that's right, what the Lightbaking said, what's the assessment of the three times the Red-Green government did exactly the same thing, did changes in the degree of compensation -- even on the top, which we haven't suggested, which are more likely to overload the services of the resource-intensive users? What words would the representative Lysbakken use about the change of the red-green government? Wasn't that a cut for the disabled and an unsocial way of running politics?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e557	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e562	This is not a question of morality. It's a question of what kind of interests you place the most emphasis on in society. If you spend billions of dollars on those who have the most power, and those who have the most wealth, it gets less to others. That's how this government prioritizes, and that's why the list we put forward in the Stortinge last week is too long: over disabled dependants, over the cuts in the housing support, over single parents who have been cut, over chroniclers who have gained increased self-esteem – and I could continue. It's a matter of priority. It was said here on Monday that the sun now shines throughout the country, but it does not. There are too many suns not shining, because the sun will shine so strongly on the richest when the right side has power. I would like to return to the question I did not get a response last week. Why does the Prime Minister and the Governments repeatedly say no to the simple proposal to identify the consequences of these cuts for those affected by them? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e571	We can then conclude that the representative Lysbakken believes that it is okay to cut the rights of people with disabilities if you do not make improvements for Norwegian companies at the same time. That's really what's the conclusion of the line that came now. I am against both sides, because I believe that the rhetoric of the Lighthouse is wrong, and that we have border crossings on who compensates between the State and the Municipality, and the rights remain. After all, these rights have been strengthened by the BPA scheme. We have allocated more money to people with disabilities into the municipal economy, and we are now going through and looking at why the municipalities may not have spent the money they have received, precisely for improvements in the BPA system, because we believe that people with disabilities should have better arrangements. But it must be the same rhetoric about yourself as the one you use about others, and I think that the Lightbaking should have been more tidy. Then it's the housing support system. We haven't cut into the housing support system. The housing aid scheme is improved in this state budget for families with children. It has been done so that the new disabled do not receive housing support if they are above the income limit and are treated in a non-infirmary way with families with children. I think that's right. But what is contained in this budget is the continuation of the transitional arrangements for all those in the housing support system at the time of the impending reform. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e578	The President must request that both respondents and respondents relate to the time allocated. Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e585	All the cuts I have mentioned, both last week and today, the government has been in favour, and SV has been courageous. I suggest that we leave that discussion behind, and then the Prime Minister can concentrate on defending his policy, which is what she is being asked about. Under the red-green government, the tax system became more redistributive, fairer. Under this government, it's going to be more unfair. One of the richest young heirs in the country was recently asked what she had done to become a billionaire at that young age, and the answer was that she had not done a "fuck." So now there are new tax havens for people with stock assets in this budget, some kind of cash support for the rich, while tightening up, for example. for accidents, on the grounds that the various cuts will help more people to get into work. Then I wonder about the philosophy of this. Why is it that rich people work more if they get more of the state, while poor and sick people work more if they get less of the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e595	I think a lot of 22-year-olds must admit that they have not done so much for the money they have received. Anyway, that's 22 years old. Maybe when you're 70, you can look back at a life where you've contributed more to that money. But first of all, I want to stress that I think the Lighthouse should be consistent. If he calls something cut when we suggest it to people with disabilities, he must admit that it was cut when he proposed it and put it in government. I think that's actually a bit of the cleanliness that should be. With regard to the proposals, we can clarify and answer all those points with a written question. It takes too long to go through all of these now. Many of them are different forms of evaluation. Some of them aren't that easy to evaluate because it will go a long way into privacy since there are so small groups, and so little it's going to be about, and because you have to spend a lot of money actually going in to find every single person this might apply. So it's like, in terms of the tax regime, our arrangement is a plan for us to get more investment in Norwegian companies, more jobs. Several jobs are a fundamental asset of well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e606	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e611	The Christian People's Party wants a child reform. The child reform shall provide children and families with a better daily life with time for each other and with increased financial security. For the Christian People's Party, this is about families being the most important building block in society. If we strengthen our families, we strengthen our society. Safe families provide safe children, who will later be better at school and in the workplace. In addition, we are totally dependent on raising birth rates in order to preserve our welfare society for future generations. Ten years ago, the birth rate was 1.9 per woman, this year it's less than 1.6 on average. A recent report from the Institute for Social Research shows that the dramatic fall in birth rates here to countries is largely about the fact that more people are waiting longer to have children, and that fewer are having children number three. It must not be the wallet that determines when in life you can have children, or how many children you can have. That's why the Christian People's Party will do something about the injustice that makes students who have children get paid only NOK 63 000 in parental pennies, while parents like that. have just completed the studies and got the job for six months, can get over half a million kroner paid in custody. By doing something about that injustice, we're going to achieve two things: we can bring down the number of abortions, and we can get up the number of births. When the party leader of the Christian People's Party stood here last week and asked the Prime Minister about the birth figures, I noticed that she replied that there were little politicians who could do to find the one they wanted to have children with, and do it earlier. I have a great deal of understanding of that, but since the Prime Minister also said in his speech that she would stimulate an increase in birth rates, I would like to ask her what she actually sees as doing on the action page.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e620	I believe that the idea of child reform is important far beyond the question of birth rates. We still have too many children living under difficult conditions. We still have too many children who are poor. We still have too many kids who experience bullying, and children who have mental challenges. There are many things that are important in the broad question of child reform. That's why I gave five promises to the children a year ago, and we've had our own work in the Right, where the State Council of Hofstad Greece has put forward some strategies in the future. Therefore, the government also captured the low birth rates before the summer and reduced internal work, but also announced two assignments on the research side. One concerns how birth rates affect the long-term funding of the welfare state — that is, the more traditional: how important is it macroeconomically that we have more children? Should we invest more in more children now to ensure that pensions are funded in the future? The second is about looking at the part that concerns causes and consequences, trying to find out more about what makes you choose to postpone getting children number three or four. What makes you have children today later? What action could be taken? I think it's important to get into it, just because we're now living lives that's a little different than what you did 20-30 years ago. Several women take education, and we take longer education. That means maybe you're postponing a child. You often want to have a career before you have kids, start having a foot party. There are many such issues that should be discussed. Then we have to put measures in place. Measures for young students who are in the situation that they have found the right one and want to start a family, I think is one possibility. There are many positive aspects of having children in the study period. It's really not as difficult as many people think, if we also give them a little bit better arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e631	I like the considerations, but I still think there is very little action. This is – as the Prime Minister also says – an area that is extremely important, independent of birth rates, because it is important to create good conditions for families. I believe that all parties must share the responsibility for the fact that child welfare has been unadjusted since 1996. To quote former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch: ‘The economy of families with children has been seriously weakened since the turn of the century in relation to other groups in society.’ Willoch has had an excellent commitment to the families and to increased child-responsiveness. He points to the importance of good conditions for all families and especially for families with low incomes. Does not the Prime Minister agree with the Christian People's Party, and so far as Willoch, that it is a paradox that, while child poverty is increasing and childbirth rates are falling, has child welfare been unadjusted?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e643	I have great respect for Kåre Willoch, and it has been a review theme for him all year long that the families of children should have better finances. However, the analyses available from systems and who have received money in recent years show that the families of children have received large transfers – not in the form of cash, but precisely because we have invested so much in kindergartens, have had so much investment in the offers given to children. There has been quite a lot of investment towards families with children, but through services and services and not through the economy. It is well possible that child protection is one of the measures. There may be measures such as: giving more child-care for the third and fourth children. It is also possible to look at other solutions. When we don't do that specifically, it's because when we go out and ask, and when we ask for research reports, we look for the right answers, the right buttons to click on. It's important that we press the right buttons and not just do something to say that we've done something, but that it actually works.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e648	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e653	I fully agree with that, and I think that one should succeed, a lot of action is needed. Essentially, it's clear that first you have to find someone, and then you have to have a living situation that's good enough. A lot of people are concerned about safety whether it's study or work, so there's a lot of work that's important, but it's clear that if we, as politicians, don't provide safe conditions for all families and especially for the low-income families, I'm sure the birth rates won't go up. I'm going to pay tribute for one thing in the state budget, and it's that the government has a targeted bet on families with children who live with low income. It is a target setting that points to leisure activities, holiday tours, equipment, etc. It is important that these children can grow up with better assumptions than they have today. But we're very concerned that this, as it is in the budget, is a brittle layer between the families: you cut into arrangements for other families with narrow minds to help those who have even tighter minds. Does the Prime Minister agree that there should be a gap between everyone to help the families who need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e660	I guess there's only one of these schemes that's a spice layer, and it's free core time for the two-year-olds. The rest is financed in general by the State budget. Now, the increase we have in the kindergarten price is also used for quality raising measures in kindergartens, which applies to everyone who has children in kindergarten. I think that everyone who has children in kindergarten will be concerned that we're raising the quality of kindergartens in terms of the offer they get, that there are well-qualified employees, but also models and ways to work that stimulate the children in the time they're there. The main measures in terms of leisure time and others, and increasing housing support for families with children, e.g., are generally funded in the State budget, completely independent of this increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e665	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e670	The Minister of Finance stood in this Chamber on Monday and claimed that the state budget is a strong commitment to climate change. On the basis of the exchange here in the Questionnaire, it seems that the Prime Minister agrees. It's not the scientists in the knowledge nation of Norway. CICERO's research director, Bjørn Samset, says that the government does not come up with any new, big climate measures, and that they impose a hair-removing burden on future generations. CICERO is now busy trying to deliver a list to the government in the hope that they will listen. The UN report gives hope. We can achieve rapid and complete conversion by ensuring a significant change in energy production, transport, infrastructure and industry. But today the government is heading towards more than 3 degrees global warming with this state budget. They increase the appropriations for oil exploration in the north. The exploration grants are continued. They don't make it more expensive to pollute. They do not cut VAT on public travel, sharing, repairs or carrots, for that matter, which will benefit the environment. They are subject to environmental taxes on the car industry. They lack measures to remove palm oil from Norwegian fuel, which eats up the rainforest. They cut new routes along the highways to 257 million. kr. They don't make it cheaper to choose bus, track and train in front of plane or car. They don't make it cheaper to eat green, and they don't make it cheaper to repair and rent rather than own clothes, shoes and electronics. At least the Minister for Climate and Environment has been honest enough to say clearly that no one is on the right track in the world, and Norway is of course not with this state budget either. So my question to the Prime Minister is whether she agrees with her own climate and environment minister that Norway is on the wrong course to achieve the climate goals we have committed ourselves to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e680	I do not think the Minister for Climate Change has said that we are on the wrong track, but that we do not have strong enough measures in the world as a whole, and that we also need to strengthen the measures in Norway in the future. I'm sure of that, not least because we're going to achieve our goal of being a low-carbon society by 2050. So it's not like there's no action in this budget. Firstly, we are increasing significantly the appropriations for Enova, which enables them to support under new technology further to the green shift and to make changes there. We're making changes to the system in terms of incentives for environmentally friendly motorcycle emissions – it may not be the largest, but taxis are actually an important part of it. We're making changes to the incentive systems, so we're going to make sure that it pays to buy a zero-emission vehicle in the future, and we're making it more competitive compared to conventional solutions. This also helps us to shift the taxi industry to better schemes. Then there is a significant contribution in the national transport plan to climate-friendly and environmentally friendly transport solutions. It is done both on rail and on public transport. It's actually one of the biggest promises for the railway that's been. Collective transport is much appreciated through the urban packages that have been concluded. It is, of course, a follow-up to the national transport plan, but the national transport plan had been set up with a large and ambitious plan to contribute to the solutions needed on the environmental side. We propose, for example: to give 1.5 billion. kr to collective projects in cities with urban growth agreements. This is a significant increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e689	It is not just the Green Party that is not satisfied with the climate measures in this budget. In the knowledge nation of Norway, researchers now spend all their time trying to help the government to see the truth, but the government does not. We are in a very serious situation for the country. It was also the Netherlands until recently, and yesterday the news came that an appeal court in the Netherlands has now made it clear that the government has a legal obligation to implement measures to protect citizens from dangerous climate change. The government is condemned not to follow up its own climate commitments. The Court’s opinion states: ‘In view of the likely major hazards, more ambitious measures are needed in the near future to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in order to protect the lives and families of Dutch citizens.’ The question to the Prime Minister is whether she believes that such climate judgment against the government in the Netherlands is good, and whether it can make us reach the 1.5-degree target in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e701	I cannot assess a climate judgment in another country, where I do not know the legal system, their laws, or how strongly they are obliged to do and how balanced they are in their constitution between what the courts and political authorities should do. It's very different. I am absolutely sure that we will not get below the 1.5 degree point by getting court decisions in the EU countries and other countries that do the most already, such as Norway. We're among those who do the most already. What is important is that we also get the countries that pollute the most to do even more and contribute. This is why one of the important things is that we have put in a mechanism in the Paris Agreement where we need to adjust our own targets for a five-year cycle to ensure that we achieve that. We're also going to work on that. We've done a lot in this budget. I can see that many people believe that this has not been done enough, but we are going on in many major areas of technology, for example. when we have worked towards the creation of a historical climate agreement by the IMO, which means that the maritime sector will be significantly better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e708	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e713	I picked up the thread where Solberg and the Senter party escaped. The owners of Color Line will be re-flagged to the Norwegian International Ship Register, NIS. They can replace 700 Norwegian workers with cheaper foreign labour, and they threaten to move to Denmark if they are not relocated to NIS. That these shipowners, who have received over 1 billion dollars. kr in profit in recent years, will earn even more, is then its cause. But why should the government help them to fire 700 employees? What Solberg didn't respond to in the city is that the alleged government has hidden behind, now is gone, that Color Line will move to Denmark if they don't get the flag to NIS. The government itself writes in the State budget that with the current grant scheme it is profitable to keep the ferries in Norway rather than to register the ships in Denmark and hire crews on Danish terms. This means that the Color Lines threat of moving to Denmark is empty threats, as the trade unions have said all the way. What remains is that 700 Norwegian seafarers and restaurant workers lose their jobs simply because they are to be replaced by cheaper teams, thanks to the Right, the Advance Party and the Left – the best friends of the rich shipowners. This is the question mark. Therefore, I ask a question and want a clear answer: Why will the government help Color Line to flag and get the opportunity to dump pay and working conditions when the pretext for the flag turns out, according to the government's own calculations, to be empty threats?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e720	We have taken the company's own words for granted, that we are at risk of losing a large company with much more jobs in Norway if we do not implement the possibility of making changes to the rules for registration in ferry traffic into the company. We don't play bingo and we don't gamble with 2,400 jobs. Sometimes the difficult situations are going on, but it's a situation that we've been in, and we've had ferry companies that have just done this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e725	It was a liberating honest answer from Erna Solberg. We now heard – black on white – that the government has taken the company’s own words for granted. You can understand that when it's Right who's in charge of the government. But at the same time, when the same party, Right, gets calculated and calculated that what they say from Color Line, does not match, that it is not more profitable to move to Denmark, but that it is more profitable to have ships registered here in Norway, then it is strange that the government uses the threat and the pretext of relocation to Denmark as an argument to let the company fly over to NIS, and thus could fire 700 Norwegian workers. So I'm going to ask, what does Erna Solberg think most about -- his own government's own calculations or claims from some rich shipowners in Color Line?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e730	I think business leaders make long-term strategic decisions when they make changes, and that means they'll look at where there's the best framework conditions. I think that's the sensible way a lot of businesses are led by. That is why I think that will be the basis. I hope they do not move any boats from NOR and over to NIS as a consequence of this. At the same time, there is the risk of losing even more jobs at the bottom of our position – and predictability. We decided that we would do this in 2015–2016. It was in a situation where the short-term economic calculations might be so different, but this will be up to the companies. So it is that we are going into a situation in Norwegian working life today with a shortage of labour. This means that in Norwegian working life there will be a need for the type of labour that may end in Color Line, because there will be other jobs in Norway to go to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e737	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e742	It is an interesting claim when more than 100,000 people are unemployed. It's a skinny comfort to those who lose their job in Color Line, that they can compete for the jobs with the other 100,000 who are now out of work. It was the Christian People's Party that was pressured in the revised budget by looking at the matter again and examining the figures more thoroughly. The government has now done so, and the conclusion is clear: it is no more profitable for Color Line to move to Denmark than to stay here in Norway. Yet Erna Solberg still has the same conclusion, even though the terrain obviously doesn't match the map she's operating on. I wonder how Erna Solberg can defend it, and whether she believes that the Christian People's Party is satisfied with such a conclusion after using its tilting power just to push through a review that now shows that the Color Lines threats are just empty threats.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e751	I cannot speculate in the emotional life of the Christian People's Party in connection with this matter. I believe that we have a labour market situation today which means that if changes are made, there is a good opportunity for people to get other jobs ashore. That's a good part of this. It is important to bear in mind that this was in line with a compromise recommended by the majority of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We announced this in the maritime strategy in 2015. It has been adopted repeatedly in the Storting, but due to the ESA approval of the rules it has taken longer. It is also a predictability that is important to have towards leaders. We are now spending considerable amounts of money securing employment for seafarers: 2 billion. kr. We have legalised the net pay scheme. We do a lot to ensure that we have Norwegian seafarers in the future, but some adjustments may also be necessary to ensure jobs on land.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e761	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e766	There are many who are well in this country, but it is a poor comfort for those who do not, for those who experience failure. Many of them have been focusing on the last few weeks, those who are victims of serious crime and now feel that their criminal cases are in line with the police for perhaps several years. This is a huge burden for victims. There's a lot of legal certainty for those we're talking about here, and a lot of them are children too. The consequences we are now seeing are that the perpetrators escape some places because of a lack of resources. We also see an increase in perpetrators who get a penalty discount. This is against people's sense of justice, and I think it's bad to cut in the police districts leads to criminals getting lower penalties. The government has now submitted a budget with growth in the overall budget to the police. That's good. Growth is going to make the necessary investments. But this budget does not respond this year as it did last year to the challenges that the police have when it comes to operations. It's going to be cut off, it's going to be a far too early profit-making process for the police reform, and the feedback we get is that this budget proposal will lead to a downsizing in the police districts. The League of Police says so. The police lawyers, the police management team and the NTL police are very clear in their feedback to us. For this reason, I would like to ask the Minister of State how she can defend putting forward a government budget which, in turn, suggests that the police districts should cut their operating budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e775	We have significantly increased the budgets of the police under this government. This year's budget is no exception. This is a major increase for the police – to ensure that we can both ensure better preparedness, factor more and ensure that we are punished more with this budget. We're in the middle of a big conversion of the police. It will be completed by 2020, and we have seen some challenges in its implementation itself, in particular in terms of longer stays in some police districts. There is a very big difference between police districts on how far they have come, and there are major challenges in some police districts. In particular, what the police district representative visited yesterday, and which I am going to meet with later today, has had greater challenges than many of the others in this transition. It has also been clearly stated – and we see a decline in the balances as a result – that we need to give priority to handling matters and getting them before the courts more quickly than what has been done. There's a lot of pressure from the Police Directorate to get to just this. So when the representative says there's a decline in the police districts, that's not right. Police districts have been built up — significant increases in, not least, police-trained people to do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e782	We may not be some here today about how to describe the real situation in the police districts, but let me say that there is no doubt that there is a lot of good work being done in the Norwegian police force. Last night I was with the Oslo police on the evening patrol. I ran with Viktor Furøy and Harald Fredrickson and observed competent policemen, who are engaged in police work on the city and have good cooperation with other sectors and agencies. It's important to be told. But that doesn't change the fact that next year's state budget is underfunded for the police districts. And this concern sees us all over the country, also in Oslo; there are not enough operative policemen. Last week the Prime Minister said in the debate on the throne that the clear and clear message from the government to the police was that they have to build up the remains and look at what is positive. I wonder how the Prime Minister can give this message to the Norwegian police without being willing to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e789	There are 2,600 more paid annuals in the police force today than it was when this government joined. It is 1 500 years' work that has been assigned to the police districts. So there is a significant effort on the part of the police in the districts that has been implemented. It's not a degradation, it's a build-up of services. The last police district, the East Police District, was finished with the division and organisational changes on 1 June of this year. There has been turbulence about people moving, switching jobs, being placed elsewhere and working with others, but now it's more up to normal operation in a completely different way. This means that much more attention can also be focused on the quality aspects of police reform. This is a big bet. It is true that parts of the bet are now going on the emergency side. We spend money because we have realized that Stortinget believes that object protection is important. Then we spend more money on object protection in this budget, to make sure we get into port with the security of important police institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e798	There will be follow-up questions – first Lene Wagslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e803	I mean, and the labor party thinks it must be possible to do both. It is now estimated that in the next year, police districts have increased their consumption by 200 million. kr into the next year. If you count on the budget proposed by the government now, you will see that it continues to underfinance. These money must be taken from a town, and Norway's police management team, among others. says they must be retrieved from operation. So one doesn't fund the bets as a description in the budget. We are very busy in Stortinget – cross-political, I have the impression. The Yard Commission was very clear that the most important response resource in the country is the ordinary police. My last question to the Prime Minister is whether she agrees that the ordinary police are the most important response resource in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e810	It's me, and that's why it's so important that we've just given priority to getting more policemen – 1,500 more in the districts, 2,600 more annual police work in total – over the years we've been running. Therefore, it is so important that we have trained more, that we have a significant increase in IP3 forces that can move out in emergency situations and be well trained for this. But it is also important that we make sure to get into port with our major preparedness issues, provide the object protection, which we are now providing, so that we will be in port in 2020 with what, after new security laws, concerns the need for the protection of objects, and with the new preparedness centre, on which we spend a lot of money. We can't always have equal bets in all areas every year, but in sum we've done a lot after the Gjørv Commission just to have a police present, well trained, and get better and simpler cooperation. Therefore, we should be better rusted in the future than we were in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e815	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e829	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Stein Erik Lauvås to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative Siv Henriette Jacobsen. Question 3, from the representative Tellef Inge Mørland to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 4, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative of Une Bastholm to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e847	This question, from the representative Stein Erik Lauvås to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Siv Henriette Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e852	‘There is a urgent need to increase the capacity of the Eastfold Railway, as there is no room to set up more trains on the route. The Railway Directorate has launched an investigation to replace the regional train offer between Halden and Oslo S with double decks, which may increase capacity by 40 per cent. According to Bane NOR, it will cost $60 million to organize the railway track. Does the Council of State consider that there is a reasonable cost of increasing the capacity of the route by 40 per cent and does he agree that it is urgent?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e859	First of all, I don't have a basis for going well for 60 million. kr, but I agree with the representative that something has to be done about the capacity of the Eastfold Railway. Increased capacity is something we work with both in the short and long term. The number of departures has increased, and more are available today to use the train. At the same time, we know that there will be a strong increase in the population of the Austland up to 2040, and the demand for passenger transport is therefore growing. That's why we have to build a railway for the future. The Directorate for Railways, following its own initiative, initiates an investigation into whether double-deck train rental could be a temporary measure to improve the capacity of the Eastfold Railway. The study looks at what needs to be done about infrastructure changes, how much it will cost to rent trains for a period of five years, and what it will cost to train a new type of train. The Railway Directorate will make a final assessment of this. I think there should be room to listen to professionals, and it will enable us to make good decisions, which will benefit the travellers. I also agree with the representative that the state of Eastfold Railway is not satisfactory today. Therefore, I have commissioned the Railway Directorate to look at the possible measures that can be taken to improve the actual supply of the Eastfold Railway in the short term. Based on the recommendation from the directorate, I have suggested strengthening the provision of multiple departure trains and minor adjustments to the stopping pattern. This action will relieve the waste with the highest demand for L2 and L2X. It will also provide more alternative and shorter travel time from Vevelstad and Holmlia. However, the largest attempts to increase the capacity of the Eastfold Railway take time to implement. It is only when Follobanen opens in 2021 and the capacity of Moss station is expanded in 2024 that we will have a full new everyday life for commuters on the Eastfold Railway and Follobanen, but we are working to the best of our ability also with short-term measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e876	The message from the travelers on the Eastfold course is clear. When pregnant women do not dare to take the train for health reasons, when passengers are standing as herring in barrels every day on their way to work, capacity needs to be increased now. There are two options to achieve a rapid improvement on the Eastfold Railway from 2019. One is to lease in double decks. The second is to lease in a new Flirt train of the local train variant, which with a double train set provides space for a total of 600 passengers. Can the Council confirm that one of these options will be realised as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e881	One of the advantages of being in position is that one has time to see the basis of decision before taking a final decision. That means I didn't intend to promise anything about it right now. But I realize that the capacity on the Eastfold Railway is a major challenge, primarily for the travellers, who today both feel that the capacity is fully used in many areas, and also that there is not enough information for passengers, which means that a person is standing on the platform again without knowing when one is coming along. This means that I've already been clear, both to the NSB and to Bane NOR, that I expect the flow of information to the passengers to be better, that they look at what they can do, each in place, to make use of the capacity on the Eastfold. I will continue to work to provide travellers with the best possible supply within a reasonable economic framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e888	It is very nice that the Council of State confirms that he will help to look with light and light for something that could increase the capacity. It is also nice that the Council of State confirms that nothing can be done about the track, because the track is blown up and there is no room for more trains. So something has to be done with the train set itself. It has been announced that a decision on a double deck is on the stairs, so it would have been very nice if the Council of State could confirm that he would speed up such a decision, and that it would not cost if you were talking about a reasonable cost level of plus/minus 60 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e893	As I said before, I can't do good for those numbers. That means that I think they'll turn out to be considerably higher than that. It says to look. I hope that's not the case, but it's still good to be honest about it. Then it won't help with any longer trains if there's no platforms they can stop at. That's the next challenge. They also say that if they are to rent a double-deck train, they must repair the infrastructure. This means that the capacity challenges on the Eastfold route will be there for the next few years, until we open the Folloban, and until we open a new station in Moss. It does for all practical purposes that we also have to look at how we can make full use of the capacity that is already there, and there is a project that I am already following up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e903	‘The EU Rail Package IV is about our right to direct Norwegian railway policy and to impose high national security requirements. Today, Norway approves who can run on Norwegian lines. With the package, Norway will give sovereignty to the EU Railway Agency, ERA, which is given images to move out security certificates that apply to the EU/EEA as a whole. Is the Council of State concerned about railway safety when it becomes the EU to approve the company and is it in line with the constitution to give sovereignty to the European Railway Agency?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e910	A Minister of Transport must always be a driver in order to keep all the actors involved in the railway sector working to avoid accidents and other serious events. I would therefore always like to have a high regard for railway safety, both now and if the European Railway Agency is responsible for issuing a safety certificate. Norway showed sound scepticism about the EU's fourth railway package when it was first presented. A central reason for this was the disappearance of the previous safety management requirements for the enterprises with the new Safety Directive and the development of more detailed requirements in their own regulations. For this reason, we reiterated that a weighty level of safety could be achieved if the corresponding requirements were not met in the corresponding regulations. I have also recorded that many people who are busy with the railway have noticed. But after the package has been signed, they have worked well in the European Railway Agency with the additional requirements. This work has been carried out by Norway through active participation by the State Railway Authority in the individual working groups of the Agency. There are now clear requirements that, after supervision, are clearer and more comprehensive than the requirements adopted under the previous Safety Directive, i.e. strengthened security requirements. Therefore, we now believe that we have received the security requirements we requested. We've been passed through so that the level of security doesn't go down. That's good. The European Railway Agency, ERA, will be responsible for taking decisions in two areas: the safety certificate for train operators and the authorisation to place vehicles on the market. In the case of traffic or use within a country, applicants may choose whether they want the ERA or their national security authorities to deal with matters. The Ministry has recently heard a proposal on legislative changes necessary to implement the railway package in Norwegian law. It's done well for the relation to the Constitution in the département's audio draft. Most of the points point to the fact that transfers of authority are of a low level of intervention, so that the Storting can agree with Grundlova § 26, second paragraph, and that will be sufficient. But it is of course Stortinget himself who is going to take a final position on it. The hearing period was 8 October, and the ministry will now go through the hearing. I expect that we will have ample opportunity to do something closer to the authority of the ERA and the relation to the Constitution, in connection with the subsequent submission of the case to the Stortinget. The fourth rail package of the European Union is not just about Norway and how we will manage our railways, but above all about what is needed to ensure that the rail sector is a strong, competitive and safe form of transport throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e925	The Council of State has now confirmed that it will give sovereignty to the EU in relation to Norwegian railway safety. The Progress Party has, in its government, taken the lead in giving power to the EU in a number of areas. It was the Finance Minister of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, who put forward proposals to give sovereignty to EU financial supervision and to place Norwegian financial supervision under EU decisions. It was the Minister of Oil and Energy of the Progress Party that proposed to bring vital parts of Norwegian energy policy into the EU’s development, and it is now the Minister of Transport of the Progress Party that proposes to let the EU decide on Norwegian railway safety. However, Norway has a constitution to protect us against politicians who will give power to the EU without barriers. The Constitution states that one can only give sovereignty in a limited area to an organisation of which Norway is a member. Norway is not a member of the EU. Why does one believe that one can give sovereignty to the EU here?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e932	This actually sums up pretty well what I think is the argument both from the Center Party and from many others who are against the railway package IV, that one says that one is busy with safety on the railway, and then one moves away in a completely different discussion. That's what's the main challenge, because it's not possible to use security as an argument against railway package IV. Then find another argument. I have something in common – unfortunately, I will almost say today – with the representative Görlsvik, that I am also somewhat critical of the EU as a whole. But I also think it is natural that a government, or I as the Council of State, actually assess the substance of the proposals. When a person does, it turns out that the arguments that a person makes about security and sovereignty are, in practice, still taken care of. Not only do we have a safe Norwegian railway, we have a harmonised regulatory framework that makes rail a competitive mode of transport across Europe. I think, after all, that's pretty good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e939	What is important for Norwegian politicians is to ensure safety on Norwegian rail and that it is not weakened by the European Railway Agency. We give sovereignty to the European Union in this area, one in the hands of the European Union. It is no longer the Council of State that can guarantee this; it cannot guarantee future developments in the EU. The revised ERA Regulation provides, inter alia, for: reference to the need for national rules to be compatible with the competition rules of the EU and also to restrict the possibility for Member States to adopt new national rules. And in the EEA note that the government itself delivered in May, the danger of weakening safety on Norwegian railways was just shown. Then, obviously, the Council of State has got a different opinion when he is now going to present the matter to Stortinget. However, one gives sovereignty to the EU, and it is the EU that will decide this in the future. How can the Council of State stand here and guarantee that the EU will not weaken Norwegian railway safety in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e946	I haven't changed my mind. But I've got something that the Center Party may have forgotten how it works, easy to get a pass. This means that the position is different because the EU has followed the Norwegian Councils and followed the recordings actually made by the State Railway Authority. And there is still, even after the introduction of the railway package IV, the State Railway Surveillance Authority to supervise and control, and there will be a need for those who will drive the train on a route to implement the competence measures necessary for a safe driving of a train there. So one can find many ideological reasons to be against railway package IV -- that's what the centre party has to do for me. But it is not possible to use an argument that no longer holds water, for Norwegian positions have been passed. And one would believe – even if one was a Senterparti-manner – that when Norway gets through in the EU, it should never be so happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e960	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e974	This question has been postponed to the next question hour. We go to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e984	This question, from the representative of Une Bastholm to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e989	‘Double reels and potential intrusion are included in the Morning Paper/Harvest salmon farming series. For example, experts from the Scientific Committee on Food and the Environment used to provide current advice on how much farmed salmon pregnant and children can eat without too much environmental contaminants were so closely related to the farming industry that according to law experts, they were inhabile. Will the government consider a new scientific review to remove doubts about the stability and credibility of the dietary councils for seafood?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e996	I am concerned that people should be able to rely on the professional assessments of the Scientific Committee on Food and the Environment, VKM, and I myself have confidence in the Committee's professional assessments. The role of the Scientific Committee is to provide independent scientific assessments as a basis for any action to be taken by the management. Stability has therefore been central to the work of the VKM throughout all the years from 2004. I perceive that the VKM has a lot of attention to this, while I record that the committee itself states that they can still improve their routines. It is not the Ministry, but the Food Authority and the Environment Directorate who have the power to place orders to the Scientific Committee on Food and the Environment. The Ministry does not have this role. It was the Food Safety Authority that in its time ordered the relevant report on the usefulness and risk assessment of fish in the Norwegian diet, which was submitted in December 2014. As far as I am aware, the Food Safety Authority has not found any points of view regarding the stability that suggest that a new scientific assessment should be made on this basis. On the other hand, I am aware that, in the light of new knowledge, the Food Authority will ask the Scientific Committee to review the issues in the December 2014 report. I am pleased with the Food Safety Authority's assessment of the matter, and I welcome the further work of the Scientific Committee, based on new knowledge in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1009	Environmental poisons are a global problem and pose a threat to both animals and humans, and the potential for harm is particularly high in periods of life when rapid growth and development occur, as in pregnancy and childhood. I believe that in this case it may also be a matter of urgency for the government to take action. In the journal of the Norwegian Medical Association on February 20, last year, six researchers wrote that children and women waiting for children should not eat quinces and salmon at all. They point out that the authorities refer to maximum levels of environmental toxicity when indicating the dietary recommendations, but that Norwegian studies have shown that there is health damage in children although mothers have a lower intake than the recommended limits. However, the question arises whether the government will consider changing the diet board – at least temporarily, while we do not have the professional assessments we can trust – except that mothers should eat half of their food from fish, and also make strict demands on environmental regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1018	I think it's very important that we, as politicians, don't interfere. It is precisely what the Scientific Committee and the Food Authority are very careful that they should have a qualified basis for advice. It's like we're always concerned with new knowledge. It's just this Food Agency now also keeps rolling on, gaining knowledge – has something changed since the last time? It is the advice that provides the basis for the dietary advice provided by the directorate and that we are all recommended to follow. We'll always see in public space that there are different opinions about what's good and what's not good. I think maybe the consumer out there deserves to know that what comes from the central bank is the right information. It also means that I am very busy having a regular flow of information and knowledge of what is happening out there. But I don't think we as politicians are going to get too attached to single statements in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1027	The last thing I agree with, but this matter is just about that it is created doubt, and with reason. There is a technical disagreement as to whether pregnant women should at all eat salmon in Norway, and there are doubts as to the credibility of the Scientific Committee on Food and the Environment in this matter. We already have a political problem. I see, for example. that the Minister of Public Health has taken very good action in other areas; I am very pleased that more demands have been made on bloggers to prevent body pressure against children. Until we are more sure what pregnant women really should eat in order to avoid harm to the foetus, we may take temporary steps to prevent the wrong information from being given to pregnant women. The question remains the same — whether or not a practice should be changed now, so that at least there is no doubt that the Scientific Committee on Food and the Environment in Norway is giving the right advice to pregnant women.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1034	I agree with the representative that it is important to get the right information out, but once again, there are individual groups that mean one thing, and other research environments that mean something else. It is in that confusion that it should just be possible for us, as representatives of the government, to have a non-hidden body that can provide proper dietary advice. I think it would have been too easy and would have created even more uncertainty in society if we now assumed that we had to stop this until further notice. Because the advice that's there is thought, and they're right. This with the stability of the Scientific Committee is also something we have seen – to see if it has been so. What one clearly sees is that the people to whom the morning paper has referred are people who have not been sitting specifically on the balance of whether or not fish are good for pregnant women. It's more of an overall connection. I think it's important that we relate to the dietary councils that lie there, and at any time collect new information when this comes up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1044	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘A grandfather from Bjørndal in Oslo was kidnapped in 2009 by the intelligence service in Pakistan during a vacation there. The man was involved in the cause of the Baluch people. He has now disappeared for nine years without any information from the Pakistani authorities or legal proceedings. In reply to questions from TV2, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs answers that the work on this specific matter is ‘still ongoing’ and that it is ‘primarily a police matter’. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs provide information on how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working on the matter and whether the police are connected to the work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1053	The Norwegian authorities have several tasks when a Norwegian citizen is reported missing. The police authorities are responsible for search and investigation. With that said, I can of course also confirm that the police are connected to the matter. If the Norwegian citizen is assumed to be missing abroad, the EEAS also provides consular assistance in accordance with the consular assistance frameworks provided by the Stortinget. Consular matters are subject to professional secrecy, but in this specific case I can nevertheless inform you that the EEAS, including the Embassy in Islamabad and the Delegation in Geneva, have done a considerable amount of work since the information came about the disappearance in 2009, in order to clarify what might have happened to Arjemandi. This work has, among other things: led to the re-entry of Arjemandi’s name in the list of Commission of Inquiry on Forced Disappearances in Pakistan, which investigates cases where persons have been taken into custody by police, military or intelligence authorities in a manner contrary to the law. So I want to add that, unfortunately, disappearances are a known challenge in Pakistan, and there are a large number of people on this list at all times. By the end of April 2018, the Commission indicated that they had 1,822 active cases. Arjemandi's case has also been raised during political visits to Pakistan and, lastly, during Norwegian-Pakistan foreign consultations in Oslo last year. Cases where Norwegian citizens are missing abroad are particularly challenging for the EEAS to follow up because we rely on local authorities to locate them and share information with us. This is also linked to what I mentioned in the introduction, that the police are also responsible for issues where Norwegian citizens are missing abroad. Then we also experience challenges in our assistance when Norwegian citizens return to a region from which they originate. In such cases, we rely on the Norwegian authorities to recognise the Norwegian citizenship of the country concerned. In most cases, we experience that you are considered a national of your country of origin and where you are. In addition, as the representative is well-known, it is of course also that Norway does not have jurisdiction abroad to be able to initiate e.g.: own investigation criterion. As long as we do not receive information from Pakistani authorities about what may have happened to Arjemandi, the EEAS continues its work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1068	I thank you for your answer. The Foreign Minister is well aware of the matter back in time, I think, for she was the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee when this matter was up in a hearing in that committee already on the summer in 2011. This is an incredibly alarming, serious matter, a gross violation of human rights. I would like to ask: does the Foreign Minister agree that there is a gross violation of human rights here, when no allegations have been made, any accusations against him that they have admitted that they have taken care of in Pakistani prisons? When the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that a considerable amount of work has been done – we remember that the Congo case informed the public, public Norway, much about what was done, there were press conferences and one thing – I would ask: Have concrete diplomatic measures been evaluated – not just to mention it at some meetings, but to call the ambassador? Have concrete diplomatic measures been considered to be stepped up? Because you can't deal with the situation that they don't provide information.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1079	First of all, I think I'm going to be careful in Stortingen to name something like that. a gross violation of human rights, as long as we do not know exactly what has happened. That is what we are now working on to find out, and the police are, as I said, connected to the matter, since they are responsible for that kind of case also abroad. That being said, our work is aimed at getting the Pakistani authorities to share the information they have. We're using the diplomatic channels we have, and we're going to continue that work. We are at least as interested as the representative Bøhler in finding out what happened, how it happened, and where Arjemandi is now. So I just want to add that in the case of consular matters, similar consular matters are treated equally. The Congo case was special, in the sense that there were two Norwegian citizens who were both imprisoned, prosecuted and sentenced to death in Congo, and the assistance given reflected this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1088	Yes, at least a lot of information was provided to the public in Norway about the work on the Congo case. When you say after nine years that you don't know exactly what happened, even though the Pakistani authorities admitted in 2010 that they had imprisoned the man, but have not said anything more since then, I believe that it must be time, or really long overtime, to put in a more concrete pressure, also because the Foreign Minister and the government have known this matter well – at least from 2011 – and are familiar with the work here in Stortinget with it. Why can't you give the family and the family lawyer more information, transparency? Why not respond more positively to requests for transparency in at least parts of the work? And does the Foreign Minister think it is satisfactory that the family has now received a letter from the lawyer – as TV 2 reported yesterday – that Arjemandi has gone away, is dead, while the U.D. cannot confirm it, and other sources say that he is in a military prison? [[President clubs]] Is there a way to deal with the family, that's the first thing they'll hear, and that what they're actually getting from the point of view, is that letter? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1097	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1102	Here it was very much at the same time. I'll try to give a pretty general answer to that. As far as external information is concerned, it is important to remember that we have professional secrecy in consular matters. That means that we can't give all the information the EEAS had to sit on, outside. Then we don't have any information that could confirm or deny what happened to Arjemandi, and that's why it's also hard for us to cancel or confirm it in other contexts. That is precisely why we continue to work – as both the previous government did from 2009 and as our government has done – to get Pakistani authorities to share the information they have on the matter. That's also why we have worked to get Arjemandi back on the list, as I mentioned in my reply, initially, because we believe that there is also a possible channel to obtain information about what might have happened. And that's also why it's hard to cancel or confirm the information that's come in the last few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1114	‘The drought of the year results in an estimated 30-35 % reduction in the rate of maritime supply of agricultural food. This is particularly low in Europe and does not provide security for the Norwegian population in a troubled world. The deterioration in the social situation of agriculture is a result of ever smaller agricultural land use and dramatic climate change. Collecting imports of food grain and feed grain is increasing. Now the imports are more than doubled. This conflicts with the social role of agriculture. What measures will the Council of State promote in order to strengthen the degree of maritime supply?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1121	As the representative Lundtägen is aware, the level of self-sufficiency in Norway is very closely linked to the production of cereals. And grain production is heavily dependent on weather. The summer of 2018 was the driest of over 100 years. The drought particularly hit the grain regions, and the crops are expected to fall to half of what they have been for the last five years. Therefore, imports will be significantly higher this year than normal. We do not yet know what the rate of self-sufficiency will be this year, but using this figure as an indicator of the development of self-sufficiency in Norway is speculative. The government has done a lot and will continue to work for a high level of self-sufficiency for food, as the Stortinge has foreseen. In many productions, there is now not too low production but too high production that is challenging. The level of self-sufficiency has been higher and the level of cereal imports under this government has been lower than under the previous one. It has been well aided by weather, but also by better land development for cereals. Under the red-green government, the grain area fell by more than 50 000 decaries per year. For us, it has been important in the last three agricultural operations to stimulate the cultivation of cereals in the cereals and grasses in the grasslands, just to discourage the abandonment of cereals. We have implemented strong measures to ensure that the increase in grass production in the cereal regions should not continue, including: by eliminating the subsidisation of grassland in these areas and strengthening the basis for grass-based production in other areas. We have strengthened the grain economy and doubled the grant for drainage in order to increase production capacity and become more robust against extreme weather, including through research into more climate-adapted varieties. The result is a sharp decrease in cereal imports and the proportion of Norwegian raw material in feed for animals has increased by 14 percentage points from 2014 to 2017. Now the area take-off that increased under the red-green government has flattened out, and in 2016 the grain area increased. To claim that increased imports of cereals in exceptional years, which this year run counter to the social mission of agriculture, are heavily sought. Plant production has always been vulnerable to variability in weather conditions. We have always been dependent on imports – and import needs will vary. Together with Norwegian production, trade with the outside world is an important part of the food security of the Norwegian people. I would like to stress to the representative Lundtegen that the government will continue to cover as much of the demand for food with Norwegian production as possible, while at the same time taking care of trade in the outside world for Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1134	It was a surprising answer that the Council of State chooses to call what I say, too speculative and very sought after. The fact is, it's plant production in Norway that determines the ability we have to supply our animals and then humans with food. And when the area goes down, the crops are still and the population is increasing, that means that the degree of maritime supply is being systematically weakened. It is the degree of maritime supply that is the social task of agriculture, that is the Community's interest in agricultural policy. The government wrote in Message. Number 11 for 2016-2017 on page 72: ‘The self-sufficiency rate corrected for imports of feed should not be a result target for increased food production based on Norwegian resources.’ Is the Council of State still standing by that statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1146	What I pointed out to the representative, Lundtegen, was that using this year as an example of self-sufficiency going down is going to be very special, because this has been a very special summer, with very special conditions. I would like to say to the representative Lundtegen that we are going to review the food stockpiles in connection with the fact that during the examination of a representative proposal from the Senterpartiet in February 2018, the government asked the Stortinget to promote a case in 2019 on the establishment of a possible storage facility for cereals. I would also like to point out that I have met with my colleagues in the Nordic countries where this issue of preparedness and security was raised, and this summer's drought has been one of those issues. The Committee of Officials on Fisheries, Aquaculture, Agriculture, Food and Forestry has been set up and was decided to set up a Nordic working group to work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1153	It is true that this year’s drought was special, but at the same time, after debate, we experience that the weather is getting wilder, wetter – and wilder also means drier in some situations – so that the need for protection is increased. What's a fact is that the rate of maritime supply is falling all the time. What is a fact is that the majority of the Storting have said that if a person imports grain, either into humans or into animals, the degree of maritime supply goes down. Now, as a consequence of reduced cereal production, we have probably reduced the sea supply by 5 pst. What is alarming is that this does not concern the Council of State, and that the Council of State does not have a plan to follow up the will of the Grand Duchy, so that the degree of maritime supply can increase, which is a prerequisite for achieving the task of society. I'm asking for a comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1158	Lundtigen is aware that the geographical distribution of production and the channelling of cereals and grasses is very important for the size of grain production. Nothing was done for this by the red-green government. On the contrary, during that period, the grasslands of the eastern countries increased by 150 000 decare. So far in our period, the grasslands are reduced, and the grain area has increased a little bit. This is due to a very active priority for cereals in the cereal regions and for grass in the grass areas under our government. We have to prioritize in a way that didn't happen when the red-green ones crashed. As I said, we have removed subsidisation of grass where grain should be grown, increased grass production in the districts, exploited land and doubled the drainage premium. More precise agriculture and the development of new varieties are also actively pursued, so that we can increase the yield per deer and contribute to better profitability. But with as extreme weather as we had this year, imports must temporarily increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1168	I will first wish the Council of State welcome to the Stortinget, and my question is: ‘A farmer from Voss has submitted an application for a production premium several hours late. The consequence for the farmer is that he loses the entire asset of $200,000. It is clear that the administration is not ready at midnight at the end of the deadline to deal with the applications. Will the Council of State make sense in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1177	I am asking for an understanding that I will not stand here in Stortinget and deal with individual matters. I would also like to refer to my three written answers to the Stortinget on the issue raised by the representative Pollestad. In these answers I have, among other things: the nature of the current application system and the agreement of the agricultural contractors. When examining the agricultural situation in 2016 by the Liaison Committee, neither the Centre Party nor the Workers' Party noted that the deadlines would be absolute, but underlined the importance of information on the system. As far as I have registered, no one has complained about poor information from the administration as a reason for late submission of an application. All companies applying for production grants the year before are then also given a notification by Altin in advance of each application period, where the Directorate-General for Agriculture informs of the upcoming round of applications. At the same time, SMS and/or e-mail alerts are given that the company has received such information. I remember that it is also possible today to have the application submitted later than the specified deadline if the farmer has a special reason for doing so. This is a safety valve intended for farmers who, without obligation, do not reach the deadline for application. Applying for, for example: has forgotten the deadline, or that something has been done to prevent the applicant from completing the application in time, will normally not be a specific case. Despite the fact that I believe that there is no lack of the system itself, I announced yesterday that I would propose changes related to the practice of the application deadlines. There are two main reasons for this. Firstly, when in the drought negotiations we based the exceptional livestock premium on application data for March 2018, an unfortunate consequence will be that those who forgot the deadline at the time will not receive this subsidy either. Secondly, I have already notified in written reply to Stortinget that I wanted to assess changes, in the light of the experience that has been done so far. I noticed that several people wanted to go back to the old application system, with a crown stroke for a given period after the deadline had expired. What kind of system might be up-to-date, we have to get back to. The most important thing for me is to treat farmers who for various reasons have not applied in time. However, it will not be possible to have a floating time limit, as the representative Pollestad appears to be in practice to be in charge. It is in the nature of time limits that they set an absolute limit to something, in this case the submission of an application. If there is no such limit, there is really no time limit. Also in the previous system there was a final deadline after 30 days, with deductions from grants. There is reason to note that there were also farmers who were not able to submit an application and were therefore rejected. Regardless of how the legislation is implemented, in the future there will also be cases in time where the consequences of submitting an application after the absolute deadline become high. In the light of the notified changes, I have instructed the directorate to continue the modest exemption practices that applied last year. For the sake of order, I stress that this relaxation could benefit all applicants, and of course it will not matter if you have been two hours or two weeks too late to submit your application.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1196	I thank you for your answer. There was a new Bård Hoksrud who replied – a somewhat more bureaucratic and square than the one I am usually used to listening to. This must be possible to find a solution to this problem. If you have a late delivery of the annual accounts to the Brønn Island Health Registers, you will be fined $1,130 a week. If you forget to pay an invoice to someone private, you may be charged a reminder fee of 70 kroner. If you forget to deliver a book in the Deichman library, you will get a fine of NOK 100. If you forget a discount on your student loan, you will be fined NOK 280. If you forget to submit your application for a production premium, you will be fined NOK 200000. My question is, can the Council of State guarantee that all those who have a negligible delay will be paid without cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1205	As I said, I have now told you that you should give those who came too late the opportunity to apply. I think that is a pleasure for those who have come into the difficult situation. I hope we get a good solution in place. I think you'll get that. But I want to remind the representative Pollestad that, for example. The loan fund, the universities and the judiciary have strict deadlines. In fact, if you apply too late for kindergarten, you lose your right to space, but you can be lucky if you have free space. So there are quite strict rules in other areas as well. But, as I said, I hope now that the representative Pollestad is very pleased that the Council of State has made sure that we get a solution in place in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1212	I want to use my last question to remind you of some things. A press message was sent yesterday. I would like to remind the Council of State that on Stortinget there is something that is referred to as the ‘own agricultural plurality’, which consists of the parties of the Center Party, the Labour Party, the Christian People’s Party and SV – with which the Council of State will probably become aware. One sees in the press release that has been sent out, that one indicates that there are government parties on the Stortinget and requests from the Christian People's Party that have made one now look flexible on this, and that one ignores that the representative Nils T. Bjørke, from the Center Party, asked questions about this already in April, I asked questions in September, Steinar Reiten has asked questions from the Christian People's Party – and Nils Kristen Sandtrøen from the Labour Party. This will skip one. I can understand that a government that has been sitting for five years has been so arrogant, but a government council that has its seat for five weeks should not be so arrogant. So my question -- to the extent that it's a question -- is whether the Council of State acknowledges that he has been pressured into this matter, and that it's very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1219	I have had a very good dialogue with the government fraction here on the Stortinget, both the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, and I have had a very good dialogue with the Christian People's Party representative for this here on the Stortinget. We've had a very good dialogue, and they've been busy with this. The Council of State is now within its sixth week, not in its fifth week, but is committed to following up the decisions taken by the majority of the Grand Duchy, and he will continue to do so. I'm very happy that you've now managed to get a good solution. Then I realize that the representative Pollestad will not fully share the same positiveness, but it will be Pollestad's challenge. I am convinced that the farmers – there are several – who have come out this year and who have not applied within the deadline can now apply and have the opportunity to receive their subsidy for 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1228	The ordinary question hour is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-10.ana.ud196e1242	There is no record available. Thus, the map is currently processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - Then nothing has happened, and the meeting has been cancelled.
