ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e29	The representatives of Åsmund Aukrust and Terje Breivik, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The request to extend the convening of the meeting of the alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag, Bjørn Arild Gram, to extend until Friday 26 October, under the mandate of the representative of Marit Arnstad from 9 October to 31 October. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, has asked for the floor to withdraw a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e49	On behalf of the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I would like to withdraw the proposal 8:221 S for 2017-2018 to wind up Norwegian State participation in petroleum activities on Icelandic continental shelf. The reason is that the government in this year's state budget has listened to SV's proposal, so it is no longer relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e54	The representative Lars Haltbrecken's message will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Emilie Enger Mehl, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e61	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Kjersti Toppe, Bengt Fasteraune, Heidi Greni, Willfred Nordlund, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Steinar Ness and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the possibility of repealing decisions concerning the merger of the counties of Hedmark and Oppland, Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland, Vestfold and Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e66	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e86	For the Workers' Party, culture and leadership were a very central part of the conciliation we had on the police reform. We were at that time very critical of the proposal that the government and the Left made, almost ignoring this subject. We put forward a number of concrete proposals for lifting the work and measures aimed at culture and leadership when the reform was being addressed in the UK. We thought that concrete measures were necessary that would lead to change. It was and is an earnest desire to strengthen the work of police leadership and culture. I'd like to quote the Yard Commission: ‘The Commission’s view is that what was fundamentally different from what was bad 22/7, was essentially related to attitudes, culture and leadership, and how people and organisations exercised the powers they had been given.’ This quote raised an area there was little talk about in the public debate and little about the police before July 22, 2011. The Gjørv Commission's mention of culture and leadership was very central to this being given an important place in the conciliation on police reform, but it also made the police case itself. Many police experienced the criticism that came after July 22, as both unfair and unsound. Others thought that finally put some words into it. There have been positive things and actions in the work on culture and leadership in recent years. In particular, action has been taken at the level of senior management. Leadership development, professionalisation and better leadership processes are under way. However, based on both feedback and the studies we have done ourselves, this is not good enough. In meeting those who work on this daily at the Police College, and in meeting with added or trusted police around the country, there are a number of concerns. It is claimed that there is a high degree of top-down processes between the Police Directorate and the police districts themselves, but also in the police districts themselves, little involvement among leaders at levels 3, 4 and 5, a narrowed room for action for leaders and a change of leadership role, where one now sees more administration and administration than leadership. Many leaders are not given the opportunity to provide leadership development, and there is also a clear platform for leadership. When we look at the list of actions we got in place – together with the Christian People's Party, the Government Party at that time and the Left – in the conciliation, the list of actions is somewhat worrying. Of the measures I am about to mention, there are measures that I really do not know the status or that have not yet been implemented. Let's think about them. Requirements for the licensing competence evaluation advice on the cross-breathing of the blue lyestats involve voluntary preparedness organisations in planning and evaluation procedures; hit point for the blue light tans in the basic training of PHS people with a different background from the Police College in secondary and further education at the Police College – there are some teachers, but that’s not good enough provision of a mentoring system for leaders – one of which sees that it only partially applies to police officers; Closer cooperation between the Police Directorate and the Police College employee platform closer cooperation between the Police College and other educational institutions – this should be developed significantly facilitating leadership training – it has been partly done, but it should be developed significantly; fixed knowledge-sharing meeting - it is partially done but difficult to find a good status at The last two not started or not followed up are: Follow-up procedures in police districts a unit in all police districts to evaluate criminal cases; Of the 14 points we clearly went over in the agreement, there are only two – as I and others have spoken to, see it – where one has delivered. The Right Party, the Progress Party, the Labour Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party agreed that improving culture and leadership had to permeate the etate and be a priority task in the police reform – a priority task. So I want to give the right assessment to the Council of State of why the measures we were able to deal with in the agreement, not being followed up in line with what we were able to do at the time. What's the reason why this is going so late? In what way does the Council of State think that the reform work to date has been permeated by the work on culture and leadership? And how can the Minister of Justice show that this has been a priority task? The feedback we get when we travel around the country and talk to the different police districts, both added and trusted in different trade unions, is that it is very different. Even if the police are about to like it, and the boxes on the organisation map are more like it ever, Norway is still a long country, where it is still a long way from Finnmark to Oslo. And there's another world in the valley, where I come from, than in the Groruddalen, where my colleague Jan Bøhler comes from. But in common for both of them and for the rest of the country, there's something to do, and the job has to be done. My impression and my concern is that there is too different how well the problems associated with culture and leadership are actually being worked on outside the police. One of the main concerns I have is the lack of a good voice culture, that of being able to say the meaning, be critical, really participate and be heard. As indicated in the slightly long interpellation text, there are different opinions, whether or not they say so, are heard upwards in the line, and how clever it is to do it career-wise. POD calls if one says something you shouldn't have said, I listened when in 2013 we visited all the police districts in Norway. Then we had a police tour to collect both recordings and actions for the work on the reform. I'm sorry, I still hear that. Some people describe a fear that if something is wrong, they need to have their backs covered. We have heard from other police officers that this fear is also experiencing a lower level of leadership. The question is, is it still so that some places are a culture of fear of making mistakes, to stop in the system if a challenger? Does one have in mind that if I do wrong, there might be no career in the police for me? Let me stress that this is not the general feedback I get from the Norwegian police, but this is a feedback that still exists, which I got confirmed last year when I gave a talk at the Police College on culture and leadership. There were over 30 intermediaries from all over the country on course. They had a lot to say about both the police reform, the police work in the city, etc., but still the feedback from north to south and from east to west was that several described a fear culture. There was a lot about not being able to express itself. These students went to a training course, which was very good. There they worked with a job requirement to write a chronic. Most of the people I talked to there said they never dare to press him. I'm concerned about these feedbacks and think it's important both to discuss and to get the problem highlighted and what we can do about the fact that some places still exist such a culture. In the interpellation, I ask how the Council of State will follow up the work on both culture, attitudes and leadership in the police, in the light of both the diffi reports we have been receiving in the reform of the police. It is also natural that the measures we were able to find in the agreement in 2015 will be commented on in this context. I look forward to dialogue and debate on a very important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e163	Thank you for the invitation to visit Stortinget to explain the work on culture, attitudes and leadership. Good culture, good attitudes and good management are the basis for good goals, although this is not easily measurable. The Djørv Commission's report is an important back ground for how the Ministry of Justice itself has worked on culture, attitudes and management. The Ministry, through its previous and current business strategy, has made it clear the expectations and objectives of staff and managers in the Ministry. The management culture of the department shall be characterised by good governance, necessary involvement and interaction. There shall be a good ceiling for counter performances and it is laid down in the management criteria of the Ministry that the Ministry shall have a culture to say from the outset. The Ministry is also concerned about how work is organised, how we interact with underlying agencies and other partners. In the past five years, the Ministry has implemented several changes to adapt the organisation to the current challenge in the justice and preparedness sector, in particular with a view to clarifying the roles and responsibilities of the social security area, strengthening the long-term governance of the police and ministry, and following up major investment projects. The Ministry of Justice and Defence, as decided by the Stortinget, has carried out annual evaluations of the reform of the police and work on culture, attitudes and management. Divi has provided the status report for 2016 and 2017 as well as in-flight reporting on culture, attitudes and management in 2017. The next progress report is expected in February 2019. It is important to stress that there is a lot of good leadership in the Norwegian police department and that there is also a lot of work to do with management development and management training in the police department. We have employees with good attitudes who have high confidence and who do a conscientious and good job every day. But as in all organisations, there is potential for improvement. The evaluation report from diffi points to some of these. The interim evaluation of culture, attitudes and management confirms that police work supports the reform of the police. Divi indicates that cultural changes take time, but concludes that the work done by the police is good and on the right track. Divi supports the police's approach to culture, attitudes and management. These measures also provide good support among managers and civil servants’ organisations and receive good feedback from those who have so far participated in or have been subject to measures. I find that reassuring. I think we need even more knowledge about culture, attitudes and leadership. In the context of the evaluation tasks of diffi, research on the implementation and impact of the close police reform shall be facilitated. Divi has been asked to carry out external acquisitions and to cooperate with R & D environments for this purpose. The Ministry uses the evaluations as a basis for the follow-up to the reform. The Ministry's governance focuses on effects and results. Although it is difficult to document the impact of measures relating to attitudes and culture, the Ministry makes demands. The police directorate has been asked not only to explain what they have done, but also what results and effects they expect to see. The reform has six impact objectives. A police force that creates better results in a culture of openness and trust through good management and active involvement is one of them. The work starts at the Police College and continues when the students are employed in the department. Different cultural building actions, evaluations and deviation reports shall be used systematically to ensure the transparency, trust and learning of the establishment needed to strengthen. The police directorate's work on developing the desired culture has followed three main lines: The police are going to work in new ways. Police shall improve control and management. Police shall become more open and increase the ceiling height. The police define culture as ‘the way we do things with us’. Through uniform working methods, citizens will experience the same quality of service regardless of where they live. On-the-spot police work, the investigation promise and digitisation are examples of new ways of working. The representative Vågslid refers to the report of the Gjørv Commission that changes in attitudes, management and culture need to be developed over time – I agree with that. In the evaluations, diffi also points to development areas. Divi believes that police officers need to put culture and leadership on the agenda locally and be clear on what is wanted culture and leadership in their districts. The central management actions undertaken must be extended to the organisation. This work is now under way, under the direction of the Police Directorate. Not only police officers, but leaders at all levels have a responsibility to promote the desired culture. The National Police Leadership Group, which consists of the 12 police officers, the heads of special bodies and the Police Directorate leadership, facilitates closer cooperation and a common cross-cutting approach. To develop a common target image for, among others: The Directorate of Police has developed a staff platform and a brochure for good police management, which, together with the police’s business strategy, the police against 2025, provides a good framework for creating a common police management culture. The overall effect of good management is good achievement. The police directorate has therefore started work on developing the police leadership group, so that they work effectively together and deliver good results both within and across police districts and special agencies. The Directorate of Police organises meetings of leaders in which the police officers and the leadership group of the bosses participate, and there are management networks established within different disciplines. Culture, attitude and management are a subject that is often addressed in such arenas. A programme has also been developed for the development of first-line managers and management training in the role of employers, the human resources manager and the change leader role. This is expected to provide safe leaders who are able to lead, manage and organise the police service, thereby ensuring the quality and development of the agency. The Police Directorate developed ethical guidelines in 2017. The ethical guidelines are based on the values of the police and deal with integrity, transparency, flexibility, respect, employeeship, leadership and courage. Equality and diversity are an important part of the human resources policy of the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection as well as of the Police and Members of Parliament. It is an objective to have an inclusive working life where employees reflect the diversity of the population. Good gender balance helps to create an attractive job that attracts, develops and retains important competences in the future. The Police Directorate has developed a gender balance plan in management positions and has launched a mentoring programme for female management talent in the department. On 1 January 2017, the police received new procedures for warning of critical issues. The procedure has been developed by the Police Directorate in close cooperation with the Service Organisations and the Chief Protection Officer. The Police Directorate has been training in alert work in the police districts and special agencies. There is also systematic work on learning and improving culture in the handling of alert cases. Since 2015, the Ministry has had a common alert reception for the justice and preparedness sector covering most of the underlying agencies. The scheme, added to an external consultant, is a safety valve and is in addition to its own alert mechanisms. There have been challenges in dealing with some police alert cases. It is important that we have an alert system that works and that we have a good warning code. The government set up an expert committee to review today's legislation and its practice. The committee proposed a number of measures to strengthen the alert protection in Norwegian working life. This approach has been consulted and is now being followed up by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the last employee survey in the police department showed that nine out of ten police officers are proud to work in the police department and more than eight out of ten are all well satisfied with the job in the police case. These are higher numbers than in most other jobs. I am also pleased that Mr Difi confirms that the Police Directorate's work on attitudes, culture and leadership supports the intention of the near-police reform. There are still challenges that need to be worked on further, but I think the work is on the right track. Let me also not forget to thank the representative Awake! when she says that the Council of State can expect to receive a similar invitation again in one year. It is good to see that the Labour Party's leader feels secure both that the government will be seated, and that I have one more year to be Minister of Justice. I look forward to re-recording the thread in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e222	It is good to stress that this interpretation text was submitted a few months ago. But I want to thank you for the answer given by the Council of State, and when it comes to the last thing he pointed out, about the employee investigation, for example, it's clear that it's very positive. But the fact that the majority are doing well is a poor comfort to those who feel that there are still challenges to the culture of the police. I share a lot of the descriptions that the Council of State came up with, but what I might miss a little bit in his answer is that I don't feel well enough to respond to the concerns that we have, especially when it applies, for example. the culture of expression. The Council of State says that there should be a culture to be able to say from and refer to guidelines and such things, but my question is also what the Council of State thinks about the feedback we get from students at the Police College and those who are mediators in the police, that there is still a fear culture in some places. What does the Council of State think about it, and what does the Council of State want to do with it? It is positive that the Council of State takes note of alerts. Both in the media and in some police districts, it has once again focused on the challenges of handling police alerts. I think it is positive that one should follow up the NOU alert – values and protection. There are proposals for good action. I probably mean that of what we've seen, there's reason to claim that the system, the system we have around warning today, doesn't work well. There are several people who have asked if the goat fits the oat sack. I think, in line with our work and social fraction, that we have to have a stronger protection for alerts, we have to have a stronger protection against retaliation, and we have to make sure that we get a better system, whether it's strengthening a unit in the Labour Inspectorate or there's a warning. There may be several good solutions to it, but I think the situation, as we have seen several times in the police, is unsustainable. I will not be able to talk a little bit about resources in this article. Police culture at all levels must be worked on, and there may be reason to wonder whether the very pressured resource situation of low-level police officers and leaders around the country now stands, makes it extra difficult to exercise good leadership and to work with culture. They are now very pressured resourcefully after cutting in operation both last year and as it is until next year. Does the Council see that it may be necessary to conduct good management when the message is actually that a new way to cut down on is now needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e235	I feel that we initially agree very much, both that management and culture are important and a very central part of the police reform, and that it is in line with what is in many ways the great lesson of the Gjørv Commission. I also agree that we are not in the goal, and I am very excited to look forward to the next diffi report, which comes in a few months, to measure how we deal with this. But it's hard to measure these things, but we're doing the best we can. The general picture is that this now feels to be better and good. I don't doubt that there are single experiences and single stories that don't support under the general picture, but it's of course a little difficult to relate to them in relation to the general one, where we try to use measurement methods. It's also that when you introduce something new, it often takes a little while before you get good at it. It also takes some time for everyone in an organisation to get the signals. Of course, this also applies when we talk about the resource situation. I understand that it may be demanding to be in a conversion. For example, when you have: starts with police work on the spot for the first time, takes some time before you get very good at it. You have to do it many times. When you have common criminal charges, it's not as good the first time you've done it for a while. And when you get a new management and it gets focused on culture and saying from, you might not be as good at the beginning as you become. It has to do with all of us becoming secure in the roles we have, in order to develop good management, be safe and communicate the ceiling level in the organisation. As I said, I feel that we are on the right track. I feel that those who are employed in the department are basically happy to be there, and I definitely feel that management culture is important to the leaders we have in the Police Directorate, and to the police chiefs. One of the benefits of getting larger and more robust units is that you can professionalise the management culture of the police chief, because then he gets a special focus on health, the environment and security as well as on staff management. I think these things will get better, but I think it is important – and very much appreciated – that the representative Awake! reminds us of this. I look forward to coming back to discuss the next year – then with a new Diffi report, which can tell you a little more about how we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e250	One of the major problems the police have had with handling is alerting. We have had the Monica case in Bergen and several other things in the wake of it – more in Bergen. Many descriptions have gone to an organization that is characterized by unculture and where it's hard to say from. It is good that the Council of State now says that this is being taken into account. To stand out as alerts can be very heavy. I want to say a few words about it. It's not just to warn without fear of represals that are the challenge. It is equal to the amount of time one being notified when one is standing alone. One could risk getting both colleagues, trade unions against themselves, their superiors and society around it, and feel that career opportunities have been put at risk. I have seen policemen who have warned, stand up in the media and claim that they even feel punished in the labour market as jobseekers for new jobs. The rumor that announces destruction, and it has to do with culture. I don't want to chat; disloyal people don't want one. It was only in 2007 that alerts were received in Norwegian work environment legislation. The intention was to signal that in Norwegian working life alerts are both legal and desirable. We were very early in giving alerts this protected by law. First of all, emphasis was placed on the democratic aspect of the right to speak – to protect a democratic right to express itself without being punished for it. It was very important. But alerts are much more than that. It is equally important that alerts be seen as one of the most important measures in society to bring about unculture and criminality in tight organisations — in order to identify events that have occurred, but above all to prevent things from happening. Think how much damage we could avoid in connection with major accidents and other events if we had in advance found out what we know afterwards, if someone had dared to stand up and told what they knew before the accident happened. In recent years, we have discovered many things because people have warned, and there are certainly several things that could have been avoided if someone had warned. The notifying selection just presented uses numbers that say society today saves 12 billion. kr on alert, and that every year an estimated 18 000 to 20 000 critical conditions are corrected after warning. Notifications save society, both by avoiding negative things, and by the fact that an alternative has to spend large amounts on supervision to achieve the same. We have a warning protection, but we still see that in society the commitment and loyalty of the organisation is highlighted as far more important than warning. A great warning procedure is not very helpful if in practice you give a warning rather than a pass to the alerter. That's what people see, and it scares the others from notifying themselves. A reader should be able to write a letter of critique about the company in which a job is being done, without having to worry about losing the job. We have strengthened our alert protection gradually in Norway, the last time in 2017. The notification selection which the government has dropped is now recommended to reinforce the additional alert protection in several areas. It is important that this work is followed up, it is important that we develop a culture where it is to be allowed to speak from, and it is important to have organisations – police or other organisations – that are good in this area today. This must be improved. If the culture of police alerting is to be strengthened, the Minister of Justice has a great responsibility – and others in his field. If the alert is to be strengthened as a norm in society, more than one action will be required, and the alert selection will propose more. The most important thing is to create even greater security for the alerts - the security of reproducibility and the ability to guide you when a notification is to be given. This includes: propose the creation of a device in society that should be accessible to alerts and provide them with the legal protection they need. It's a good suggestion, it's important and something the Labour Party will follow up to get in place. I hope the government will follow it up as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e269	This is a good and important interpellation, focusing on what police reform really is about. For it is about so much more than squares in an organisational chart or janitor's offices. Actually, it's about how the police work. It's about having to think new and different in the fight against a new kind of crime. Here attitudes, culture and management become central. This presupposes that police districts and the Police Directorate place this work on the agenda to a greater extent. Storing and government provides clear leadership for the work on culture, attitudes and management. It is a goal of the near-police reform that the police should produce better results in a culture of openness and trust. The Directorate of Police has put in place a number of measures, including: the establishment of a national leadership group, the first-line management programme and support to a leadership group in the districts. Nevertheless, the in-flight report states that questions can be asked about whether the measures reach a large enough extent. The development and recruitment of good leaders may be one of the most important policies of the police in the future. As I said, the crime scene is in great development, and the police have to work differently. In order to involve employees in this, it is a prerequisite for an interaction between managers and employees and organisations. It is critical that leaders are able to deal with disagreements and criticisms internally and around issues in general that arise in the news picture. Employees must then be given room for action and involved in plans, priorities, development work and decisions. At the same time, employees also have an obligation to contribute to creating a good and safe working environment. Lack of participation can over time lead to mental and physical distress and stress, especially when there is a high level of change. The police are known to have very strong both formal and informal structures, and it challenges police leadership in general. At regular intervals, questions are asked about senior management in the police. Head of Intelligence and Investigation in the Oslo Police District, Grete Lien Metlid, has expressed doubts as to whether all police employment is real. She points out that open processes are required to get the best applicants, and that a culture is needed to get more people to apply for leadership positions. She has said, among other things: VG that both men and women avoid applying because they believe that the employment is already done in advance. Metlid was also recently awarded this year's leadership prize by the Police Union. Transparency and cultural change in the police must start with each policeman and woman and each police officer reflecting on his own actions and contributions to culture, and reflecting on why culture has become like it. Police culture is very good, but there are also some features in it that need to be worked on further. Facilitating this type of reflection is an important leadership work in the police in the future, and it must be a priority both for the Police Directorate and for the police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e288	I am very pleased that this debate on management and culture is going on. Today we are discussing the justice sector, but this is probably a topic that could be affected in many other sectors. As the interpellant is inside, the country is long and different, and I am very happy that the Justice Committee has now been in the West region for a few days, and sees how much they have worked with leadership and culture to succeed in this important reform. As far as the work on culture and attitudes and police management is concerned, I think we should all be honest that we haven't come far enough – we still have challenges to address, which need to be further worked on. It is a problem that a quarter of the people who report are not being followed up in a good way. It is also worrying, as the interpellant notes, that there are police staff who fear career consequences if they report to their leaders. It is important that this is addressed and action is taken to improve the management culture and lower the threshold for internal police personnel to report in cases where they consider different situations to be problematic. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is so clear that we are not in this field, and that this is something to be followed further and strengthened in the future – and also to be followed. But despite the fact that we have now received reports that point out that challenges exist, it is important that we do not paint the situation black, because management and management development have received a lot of attention in recent years. It is also a central part of the ongoing reform process. Many managers — and employees who want to become managers — are now taking management training. The report shows that a number of management development measures related to the reform have already been launched and that they are well received. We are also aware that POD has invited all level 1 and level 2 leaders to joint leadership meetings, which have received mainly positive feedback. It is also gratifying that employee surveys show that most people are satisfied with their closest management — and it is important to bring them along. But at the same time, as the interpellant also pointed out, it is also the case that the police have taken several important steps to work with culture, attitudes and leadership. It is important to bear in mind that the culture of the police is very complex – it is not about one culture. Cultural change is possible, but it takes effort to achieve it, and it takes time to realize it. It is not just leaders and employees who contribute to the development of a culture; it also does work processes and structure. Both on-the-spot police work, the investigation promise, new operating centres, joint criminal proceedings and new police districts are therefore important measures that affect all employees and also affect culture. If we are to succeed in this reform, an important reform which I am pleased to see that there is a great deal to be done out there, we also need to work with management and culture in the individual police districts. One might say that a manager does not get better than his employees. Seeing the best in their employees, being able to develop their employees — it also makes you a good manager yourself. And if we're going to be able to achieve this reform, we need a good management that looks at the individual, and that also manages to get the best out of its employees. We know that the close-up reform is a comprehensive reform, that it is demanding, that it is essentially going as planned, and that we are going to achieve goals, but it is important that we do not slow down this work. There are many things that remain, but at the same time we are on the right track to get a better police out there. Although much negative media attention has been paid, we should not forget that the public’s confidence in the police has increased. We also know that police officers are more optimistic about the positive effects this reform will have. But the interpellant brings up a theme that I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice points to being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e313	The Gjørv Commission pointed out that it was particularly important to address the problems identified by the Commission in relation to arrests, culture and police action. There are several problem settings associated with these three outlines. One of these issues is the amount of space they add to render critically, and how alerts are handled. It's this last topic I'm going to deal with most in this article. In the past, I have drawn up alert cases in the South-East police district with the Minister of Justice through a written question. The Minister then replied that he was busy handling alert cases in a defensive way, and he wrote that he assumed that those following cases in the Police Directorate – POD – are assessing their own stability. I mean this is to disclaim responsibility. What I and others have reacted to in this matter was that POD itself handled an alert that related to POD's own handling of previous alerts. I think this could be experienced as an inexorable exorcism and a lack of confidence for those who are notifying. It is not enough for the Minister of Justice to have confidence in adding to the POD to assess his own viability. The important thing is about the system of handling alerts and dealing with complaints about such handling is satisfactory. I want to make it clear that what I'm saying is not meant to be a criticism of one or the other added to the POD that has been involved in the handling. But if there are currently no alternative ways to proceed in such situations, you have to do something about the system. If the system continues as it is today, it can have a cooling effect on alerts, so that not all things that should have been warned about are actually. We should find systems that allow adding people to trust that alerts are well taken care of and that alerts are handled in a good way. Then it's a point not to take for granted that everything that's being notified has to be done. But to make sure that one gets the important messages, one has to have a culture where it is safe to alert, and one has to have a good system to follow up alerts and alerts in the different phases. In our committee, an expert committee gave an attitude to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs where they suggested a number of measures to strengthen alert protection in Norwegian working life, as was the case with the Council of State itself. The case was to be heard by deadline of 3 September no in the fall. The notifying authority did so, including: suggestions for the creation of external alert channels, which I welcome to assess. I note that the Directorate of Police does not want such a system as has been proposed, but I would like to know how the Minister of Justice assesses the submission of external alert channels, and I would like to assess, on the right, whether the Minister of Justice is currently considering other current proposals that could improve the alert situation for the addition of police and county officials. Finally, I would like to stress that promoting a culture of more openness in the police is about far more than warning. It is a matter of making it possible to criticise methods, priorities and processes without posing a risk of the career path being drawn up in front of the nose. It must be possible to disagree with the boss without this becoming a problem, and then one must have ways of getting ahead. It's not likely that a person's career will be affected if he picks up something, but if a fear that this can happen and so it's not possible to address the topic, the problem is there anyway. There is no doubt that this will be a particular problem at a time when there will be a major police reform, where many settings will be changed and where the individual will end up, both geographically and in terms of wages. If there are different opinions between rental and they add about the extent to which there is a culture to record things, as I see in part that it is actually in the police, it is the rental at different levels that is responsible for conveying that there is an open culture, that there is room for taking things up, and that it is safe. Finally, I would like to thank the interpellant, Lene Wagslid, for bringing up the theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e336	Thank you very much to the representative Lene Vågslid, who gives us the opportunity to discuss the police's work. It's important that the Storting does it sometimes. The terms ‘culture’ and ‘management’ really only have meaning if they are seen in relation to the police’s tasks. So they don't make sense as purely structural concepts, they have to be seen in relation to what the police do. And the police have some major tasks. They must be in the forefront of crime trends, they must be accessible to people most — with resources, with high quality — and they must create security in the digital space, which is a new major challenge for the police. But perhaps the most important thing now is that the police are able to transform themselves into a new development of crime. It is perhaps here that the terms ‘culture’ and ‘management’ are most relevant — to what extent the police are able to adapt to the new development of crime. Traditional crime in Norway is falling, i.e. crime related to violence in open space, profit crime and drug crime. There will be fewer people hitting each other on the street, fewer car crashes and car thefts, fewer burglaries in the house, and there will also be less drug crime. This is a picture we see throughout Western Europe, and it also applies to the immigrant population both in Norway and in Europe. This crime goes down. What goes up, on the other hand, is crime of the kind of family violence, rape and abuse against children. There's a dramatic increase in the number of reports to the police. Then the key question is: does the police, through their internal culture and through leadership, handle themselves from the old crime to the new crime? That's the question. If we read the Strasak report, which is the police's own report on the development of crime and their own report on the percentage of intelligence, we see that the police are not doing it. Based on these figures, the police on traditional crime — violence, profits and drugs — have a good percentage of information, i.e. in the areas that go down, they have a good percentage of information. In the areas of uprisings, family violence, rape, child abuse, the percentage of information in some areas is very low – alarmingly low. There are police districts in Norway, President — actually in your home area — where the percentage of family violence is below 20 p.m. That means that eight out of ten families who report family violence in the Drammen/Buskerud district feel that the cases are being dismissed, they do not receive an adequate response from the police in those cases. I'll call it Police Norway's perhaps the biggest crisis in the world right now, that the police aren't going to be able to turn to the new crime. Back to the terms ‘culture’ and ‘management’: it’s about how we have police officers in Norway who are doing the right thing, and how to make a shift from the old crime fence to get rid of the new things. When I travel around, also with the Justice Committee in Police Norway, we hear that there is considerable inertia in the system, it's old-fashioned leaders, and it's also so that there's little status to work with this new type of crime. It is much cooler to be on the patrol – and it is also better paid, I understand – than to sit and investigate rapes and family violence. It's clear this is a huge challenge for the police, because this is not going to go over. This development is going to be even worse. We've only so far taken the lid off of this kind of thing. Then I have to be allowed to say that it is not the responsibility of the Minister of Justice that we have got the very unbalanced work in the police – this is a situation that has been going on for years. But the sitting Justice Ministers of the Progress Party have not been concerned about this, they have not communicated this challenge to any particular extent. They have been more concerned about telling us that there is a lot of juvenile delinquency, among other things, and that immigrants are responsible for significant crime. Statistically, that's not true, because the major challenges are in the areas I mentioned, family violence, rape and child abuse. So my question to the Minister of Justice is this: What action will he take to bring about the absolutely necessary change in the pace of the police, so that they can change from the traditional crime trend to the new development?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e351	I want to thank the interpellant for a very important and good interpellation. There have been many good posts. Sande and Klinge have, among others: taken up the opinion climate and the conditions for alerts. I want to go a little further with what the climate of opinion is, from a slightly different dimension, because what worries me about the management of the police and the interaction with the crews, is that in recent years I've got a lot more image that policemen in their everyday lives, on the streets or around, increasingly say that those who sit in the management, those who sit in the offices, don't have the same reality as them. It's expressed in the media through anonymous statements from these policemen, who say that's how it is, or it's expressed in other ways, that they say from to different people they know. I have to say that it worries me a lot, because the relationship between the management and the basic plan of the police must be there to make a good effort and set up for each other across what level you are in the police. I can take some examples of what I mean. An area of concern that is at least known relates to the development of the rest of the world and how it has been addressed. From the time I started working on it in 2006 until today – I stress: until today – I have met a culture in the police where they say, "We shouldn't call it a gang, because then we give them status, and then we stigmatise different areas." There has been a review tone from the police department and those who have run the business, while the basic police know very well what they are facing. There has been more and more evidence in the debate on developments, for example: in Oslo South that for many years you haven't met the challenges you've seen, because you shouldn't call it a criminal gang, and you shouldn't talk about that area, because then you stigmatized it. At the same time, there has become more and more a common perception that one can care about and be proud of one's territory, and believe in the resources there, but still talk about things to deal with. Unfortunately, up until today, we see, for example. in recent shooting episodes, where there are well-known crowds on each side, it is nevertheless underlined, in modesty, to everyone in the police and to the media that it should not be said that this is thread-related. It smiles on the ground floor of the police by those who work on it, and it's not good, because it creates a very distance between those who communicate to the audience, and those who stand up in it – and of course from people who know the challenges. It has been mentioned here that the work on police culture would involve more transparency, but there are some features that go in the opposite direction. I asked the Minister of Justice here earlier, in the summer, about the use of police-tweeter. It's a good tool for creating more openness and telling about events, and it's been in recent years. I took it up with the Minister of Justice, and I've received several enquiries from the audience on such matters lately, that there is now an incident going on here, there are a lot of police cars, there are police officers, there are ambulances – but nothing on the police Twitter – while there are some trifles happening elsewhere in the city. Then there's a concern about whether you want to inform the audience. It can't have anything to do with not notifying the gangsters, because they are very aware that the police are massively present. But the audience living in the area needs to know what is happening — and others, of course, have every need to know what happened. The Minister of Justice replied that there were some guidelines, including: new POD guidelines for Easter times on the use of police-tweeter. I have tried to look for them, Minister of Justice, but have not found them. But at least I'm concerned that there's going to be an interaction between what people see, what policemen on the basic plane experience, and what management communicates. I think it's a very important part of it, to have a police team that pulls together. New ethical guidelines from the POD, which were at the hearing in 2016, were also put forward, criticising the fact that the obligation of loyalty was considered to be very restrictive. I have to say that the tendency for more and more centralised communication, less and less expressed by those who stand up in it, worries me about the opinion climate in the police and the interaction there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e367	This was a very good debate. We are some about a lot, both about the description and about the need for action, but it has begun to become a habit that we are not quite enough about the pace. As I pointed out in my first post, we had proposals for a number of measures – over 14 clear points – in the conciliation we received, which have been treated with quite audacity. It actually adds up to a lot of the other 14 sides of the equation. I don't think it's going to be answered well enough on the question of what a concrete person will do to intensify the work on the concrete measures, and how this will permeate the work on the reform. One thing that might happen is that we disagree, but as I get the impression, is that one should first create a structure, and then the quality would come later. But no successful reform can be carried out in this way. A great deal of this has to be done in parallel, and the strongest criticism I have is that I think that the measures we were some that would work with parallel implementation, have not been done well enough. Found in the diffi report points out that one can call it a fear culture, still exists. Despite the fact that, fortunately, this does not apply to the plurality, I hope it will be followed up in the way that the representative Horne said in a very clear way – and the council was also inside it. One must not hesitate to do this work. The reason why my predecessor, Hadia Tajik, and I announced that the interpellation was coming back the following year and again, is that the Labour Party in the negotiations on police reform really wanted him to come to the Grand Duchy as his Minister of Justice and do good for the work on culture, leadership and stagnation. We didn't get through it, and so this is our way of doing it, to make sure that we get these debates up in Stortinget. I totally agree with what was said about openness about additions. I also thought that the post to the representative Angell Gimse was very good. In addition, it says that this work needs to be put more clearly on the agenda. However, the diffi report also points out that very many of the good measures have not been widely achieved. What I mean is the Minister of Justice's responsibility to take care of. Clear governance in both the Police Directorate and the police districts is something we expect to be put into action. I don't feel that anyone is measuring the situation. I don't understand why it should always be a kind of counter-argument from the position. I want to claim that if one sits in government or not, one has to look at the big challenges – in addition to boasting of what one is pleased with yourself. I believe that some of them have made a good impression in the debate today, and I hope that the Minister of Justice will follow them in his further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e384	Let me start there where the interpellant ended. I would like to come back and explain this several times. I think it's an interesting topic, I think it's an important topic, and I fully agree that this may also be a subject that in the political debate quickly gets less attention than the more spectacular things that happen in the justice sector. That's why it's actually very good that someone sticks to this, too, that doesn't have this drama in it, and that's with and builds trust and security, stone by stone, to make a good culture and good leadership in a high-grade establishment. I have an experience that there are few institutions that focus so much on management and culture as justice, especially the police sector, and that is because of the experiences behind them. So it should just be missing that you don't have the focus on it. But there's a lot of focus on it, and I think we have to assume that the quality of these things gets better, just like they've already gotten better. A very important part of the police reform is that you should have the same quality across the country, and that it should not be accidental how things are handled in a large number of police districts. Thus, by obtaining twelve police districts, there is a much greater opportunity to put this on the agenda and demand uniform and equal handling of both alerts and of management and ethical issues. And I can promise that this will be followed up in all sorts of ways. So there's another point that I think is useful to include. It was the representative Eide who took it up, and he is of course quite right – management is something that needs to be understood in relation to which task to solve. Being able to change, not just to a new structure, but to a new type of crime, is absolutely crucial. And that's what the representative says, there's a shift in crime -- the old, traditional crime is going down, and we're discovering a new type of crime that's quite dramatic and that's dangerous. It's about violence, violence in close relationships, and it's about assault cases. I'm not sure whether these things are signs that they're not priorities, because I think that in terms of these assault cases, for example. net crime cases are due to the strong growth – it has been more than 100 pst. increase in sexual assault cases — the fact that the police actually reveal more. So we're in the situation that the more you focus on it, the more you discover. So maybe it's the dark numbers that come out just because the police have prioritised it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e393	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-18.ana.ud438e407	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
