ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e39	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Monica Mæland, Bent Höie and Nicolai Astrup will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e48	I would like to ask a question to the State Council of Malta. When we travel around Norway now, we get – a little outside the central cities – an experience of abstinence and distance. That is something I think political Norway must take seriously. This is about the legitimacy of the decisions we are making. I believe that the government's procedure in some questions helps to strengthen that impression. We now see it in Finnmark, where it goes against a totally unusual referendum on regional convergence, where you have an experience of not being heard. And the last of many examples we see in the community merger between Narvik, Ballangen and Tysfjord – initially a voluntary merger, with a good process, well locally anchored and developed locally by the municipalities and the county to find good solutions. In the Council of State last Friday, the State Council of Malta went in to divide Tysfjord according to a model that neither people, people elected, nor professionals in the area want. The government is moving towards County, the rapporteurs of the three municipalities and the common denominator of the new Narvik municipality. What could initially be a good start is going to be a bad start. The rapporteurs in the municipalities concerned have resigned, and that is a rather crushing judgment. Right-wing politicians in the region call this alarming arrogant. That's what I think is opaque. The majority has decided that volunteering should be the guiding principle of municipal reform. For all practical purposes, the government breaks it when it intervenes in this way against local processes that have been followed in this merger. So I want to ask the Council of State questions about volunteering: does the Council of State mean that her conduct here violates that principle? Has she intervened in good local processes and done what could be a good merger, into a much more demanding process?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e59	Firstly, I have a completely different experience of Norway from that of Gahr Støre. There is now a lot of important and constructive work going on across Norway in connection with the regional reform – a reform that will help us get bigger and stronger regions, a reform that shows the way in the time we are living now, with changes we have not seen in 150 years. At the municipal level, there is also a lot of good, constructive work in the whole country to get bigger and stronger municipalities. The aim is not the municipalities or borders, but the inhabitants – by contributing to better services in the most important areas of life. There are a few very few exceptions. At the regional level, Finnmark has not wanted to comply with the two decisions of the Stortinge to appoint members of a common denominator. It has been decided to hold a referendum, but we do not have a political system in Norway that makes referendums in the municipalities overtake decision-making. I hope that Finnmark appoints members in common and starts working with Troms, who have done so. There is also a situation in Tysfjord, and then I have to correct the representative. It is not that the elected representatives have ceased their duties. Nor is it the case that we set a limit in government. And it's not like there's a disagreement about aggregation. There is disagreement about the boundary between two new municipalities. I've done a thorough job. I've evaluated all the recordings very thoroughly – from elected representatives, from County State, who have done a thorough job, from Sametinget and from private individuals. A thorough work has been done on the part of a municipality that is in a very special situation, both human and economic. My starting point has been to facilitate two sustainable municipalities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e70	I believe that the Right Representative, who calls this alarming arrogance, has quite good coverage when I hear the answer from the Council of State. She dismisses what is happening in Finnmark because they have no respect for two decisions made in Stortinget. So here, people are reacting to a process that's been badly anchored. Regional reform has been a good process in some areas, because the process has come from the people, as in Trondelag and Agder. Otherwise, it has been through borderline moves and inventions that have a rather weak legitimacy. I think the history of what we now see in the three municipalities that are going to find the way is special. I am not in doubt that the Council of State has been thoroughly involved in this when she has taken the decision, but there is a resolution that has led the three rapporteurs to withdraw from the work, that the name is not working, and that what was a voluntary process has gone over to become a matter for the ministry to decide. I would like to challenge the Council of State by asking: how does she understand the decision of the Stortinget that volunteering should be the guiding principle? What's her interpretation of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e79	I didn't say Finnmark didn't have respect. I have said that they express disagreement, they have chosen to have a referendum, and they have not appointed members in common. It's a statement of the actual situation. The Storting has taken two decisions on this, which Troms is ready to start working with – Finnmark is not. As far as Tysfjord is concerned, there is not a debate on community mergers, but on where to go between Hamarøy and Narvik. Of course, I've looked carefully at the recordings I've received. Narvik has taken a decision that Narvik wants because it benefits Narvik. The Ballangen has taken a decision that benefits Narvik, into which the Ballangen is to enter. Hamarøy has taken a decision that benefits Hamarøy. There are two municipalities where one is going to be of 2,000 inhabitants and the other of 20,000 inhabitants, and we have to provide sustainable municipalities in the future. There is a population in Tysfjord that has a very special luggage, which is in a very special situation, and I am concerned that both municipalities should be able to handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e86	There will be follow-up questions – first Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e91	The councils are right that in Ballangen, Tysfjord and Narvik there was a question of sharing Tysfjord, but now there has been a question of municipal merger. These municipalities that took the neighbour talk, who took the call and entered a constructive process and wanted to join forces, were run over when they wanted to preserve Tysfjord as a whole municipality that entered the new municipality. They said, OK, we're going to accept it, we're going to go on with the process. They once again experience being overrun by the Council of State and therefore say: the assumptions we had to be on this voluntary basis are now lost and we don't want to merge. And then they go to their local government with that recommendation. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: When the proposition on municipal structure states that there is a need for municipalities themselves to merge with one or more neighbouring municipalities, which is the main driving force, will the Council of State come to Stortinget with a recommendation that the Stortinget should re-approve its decision on this merger? Or will she facilitate the implementation of a further coercive merger?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e98	I can rest assured that this Greatness has said no to coercion in this period, so it will not be recommended by the government. We have a situation where there has not been a debate on aggregation, but on where the boundaries should go. We get a very difficult situation when Narvik says they won't continue the work if they don't get the limit they want and that benefits Narvik. I am concerned that we are going to get two municipalities that are both going to be able to strengthen themselves, and that are going to move on with new residents who are in a very difficult situation. I hear a lot about Narvik and little about new Hamarøy. Hamarøy has 2,000 inhabitants, they get 1,000 new ones. Narvik is at 20,000, they get 1,000 new ones. I have to make an overall assessment of what will be the best situation for both municipalities in the future. And then this isn't about residents, there are no people living in this area we're talking about now, it's about business. There will be an economic settlement between the parties afterwards, so that we get a neutral conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e103	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e108	With respect to reporting, it is not only Narvik who protests about this; it is the common denominator, there are representatives from the position and opposition in all the three municipalities concerned who say that they cannot participate in this, and go back on a recommendation, and who feel that they as representatives of the inhabitants of those municipalities are overrun and again have not been listened to. But I hear that the Council of State does not intend to take it seriously, does not intend to come to the Storting and say that here are no longer the prerequisites for volunteering. The Council of State also chooses to disregard its own representative in the county, the county, who was commissioned to investigate this, who has carried out a thorough investigation, and who comes back with two clear recommendations. It's up to the Council of State to put aside and believe that here in Oslo we know better what are the best assumptions. What is it that County has done wrong, what is the County emphasis on errors in its clear recommendation, since the Council of State has set it aside?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e118	I think that the representative is a little bit overactive after concluding with what's going to be the situation here. It is such that there will be three municipal board meetings tomorrow. Tysfjord has not dealt with this limit in his local government. Ballangen and Narvik have done it, they have adopted what benefits them. Hamarøy has adopted what benefits them. There is nothing strange at all – everyone has a motive for the vote they have taken. Of course, I intend to be in good dialogue with all parties. I've had that, and I want that to go on. Then it is that the County has made a thorough assessment. Of course, we've also done that. The county council did not recommend two alternatives, they were abandoned. So three alternatives were left. It is then that the County has made an assessment — of the area, of roads, of school structure. I have made a different assessment – of the resource situation, the size, the sustainability and the strength of the future. Once again, I think the representative underestimates the situation of Tysfjord, the situation of the people of Tysfjord, who are going to move on, and who both municipalities are going to be able to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e129	Åsunn Lyngedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e134	This isn't about Ballangen and Narvik. The county of Nordland has taken into account all the inhabitants of the municipalities concerned when they say that they cannot afford the option that you and the government have chosen. The county has taken into account basic circuits, school circuits, church cults and constituencies under the law of division. She has listened to a majority of the population in both of the two parts of Tysfjord who are going to a new municipality. With the reasons given by the government, there is a suspicion that, contrary to a circular to the law of division, economic considerations have been taken into account when deciding on this breakdown. You get, as your own State Secretary has said, to decide on financial settlement later. It's also in the law of division. Does the government try to waive responsibility for financing small municipalities in the future by saying that this must be done by the neighbouring municipality through power plants in order for the new municipality to behave?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e143	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e148	I wonder a little bit about the reason for the question. It's not that Narvik will release a power plant – it's a power plant Narvik never owns, it's a power plant Narvik has wanted to own. But it's not like Narvik owns this power plant; it's Tysfjord who owns the power plant. And the question is where to find the power plant. Our only reason is to create two sustainable municipalities in two very different municipalities in a very different situation, in terms of both people and the economy. That's the starting point, and that's the assessment we've made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e153	The circular to which the representative refers is about border adjustments. This is not a matter of border adjustments. There is no disagreement between two municipalities about where the border goes. A whole new border is to be created between two new neighbours. Then we have to make thorough assessments. We have. We've looked at all the recordings, we've listened to all the recordings, and then we've done a conscientious job The President: considering the way forward. And that's what's the basis for the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e156	Åsunn Lyngedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e161	The law of division has been applied in this case. The local democracies in Narvik, Ballangen and Tysfjord have worked hard for a new municipality, with room for all, and now the common denominator has stopped the work. The entire culture of Sørfjorden, Grundfjorden and Mannfjorden, which is the controversial area, is built around Kjöpsvik. Yours were the people who lived there, every day for work at the cement factory – from 1918. Kjöpsvik in Tysfjord was the first in Northland to receive electricity, because Norcem, the cement factory, built the power plants in Sørfjorden. The whole area is connected to the north-east side, with strong ties, which the government hasn't seen. Imagine a farm fence with several buildings where suddenly a boundary is drawn straight through the tunnel. Parts of their home should belong to another municipality. This is why the government's decision is so wrong and the reactions are so strong. The County has given attention to everyone in Tysfjord when the County has said that you cannot afford this option. Does the Minister see that she may have been harmed by her decision to disregard important considerations and historical ties between the regions of Tysfjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e168	First, I must correct the representative. There are no people living in this area – there is no farm staff. There are no people living between options C and D, there are four people living between options B and C, for those who know the district, and the representative does. So there are no people living there. This is about land, and it's about business. That's the situation. Then I hear that the representative cares for the Ballangen, who's going into Narvik – and for Narvik. But I don't hear anyone talking about new Hamarøy, a small municipality that gets 1,000 new residents, people who carry a backpack that's very special. My assessment has been to make a total assessment, listen to all the recordings and make a decision that we believe is right for the future both for Narvik and for Hamarøy. And then the common denominator hasn't done its job. There must be three municipal government meetings tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e175	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e180	I want to ask my question to councillor Höie. Every other day, a patient in mental - health protection takes his own life. It's a very serious situation. Talking surprises even tanning researchers in the field. That this is so often done in a place where patients with serious mental illness would be most safest is due to trust in the Norwegian health system. Two years ago, the VG revealed that it found a widespread and illegal use of coercion against mentally ill people admitted to Norwegian hospitals. The Control Commission, which was to ensure the legal security of patients, did not intervene against frequent and illegal use of the belt. It was also a very serious matter. This month, Norway received criticism from the UN Human Rights Committee of our practice of electroshock treatment without consent. At the same time, we received criticism from the UN Human Rights Committee about how we treat mentally ill people in prison – we put them on smooth cell. Glaschenta-saka showed us a mental health protection that does not provide children with protective health care. Severe efficiencies, reduction of bed places and increased levels of security psychiatry challenge the patient supply to the sickest group of patients. We're talking about Corridor Asians in the acute psychiatric ward and monthly waiting for young girls with eating disorders. We're talking about low crew, which increases the risk of coercion. Examples are in line. This shows a health service that discriminates against patients with mental illness and a government that does not intervene. Does the Council of States not understand the seriousness of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e194	Well, the issues raised by the representative Toppe are very serious. That is also why I and the government have so clearly prioritised mental health protection and the issues raised by the representative Toppe. The question of suicide among those receiving help in the field of mental health protection was an essential part of the work of the Action Plan on Suicide in Norway. This means that, from 12 January, we will introduce the system used in the United Kingdom, with a much more systematic monitoring of suicides that occur in connection with one’s being treated in the field of mental health protection, so that the service is better equipped to learn from the mistakes made. Forced use in mental health protection is a problem that I have been dealing with for a long time. This is also the reason why we have set up our own law-enforcement committee, which is now in the process of being asked for work, and which is going to review the entire law on health care. But, of course, we haven't just waited for this work. We are now working systematically on how to reduce forced use. We have implemented a very important legislative change in Stortinget, which has entered into force, and which means that people with decision-making powers cannot be coerced. We get in these days numbers that are going to show the effect of those changes. The Glaschenta case was a matter that affected a lot of people. It also raised a problem as Minister for Children and Gender Equality Solvency Horne and I worked on over a long period of time, namely the challenge of cooperation between child protection and child and youth psychiatry. This is also the reason why two common institutions are now being established between the protection of children and the psychiatry of children and young people. This has been a discussion for a number of years, in which we have finally managed to cut through, and now the institution is being set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e205	I'm talking to the Council of State about individual measures. I mean, government and government don't take mental health protection seriously, because individual measures can work, but the system is still in place. And it's just a system change that's being called from the professional community, for example. from the leader of the Norwegian Psychiatric Association. He's just asking for a system change. It's time to look at how the whole system works. He says that there is too little political interest in systematic studies and overviews of the quality of treatment, and how the whole of mental health protection works together. It's an area where you don't see too little, and you don't go in and see what's needed by the tool. One has also voted in favour of the proposal from the Central Party to get a new big message, where one could look at just how mental health protection works and how the systems work together. Will the Council of State deliver such a whole-hearted case?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e214	I fully agree with the representative Toppe that this is about system change. I have also been very clear that I believe that the field of mental health protection in specialised health protection is an ‘informed’ part of healthcare. This is also why the government of the platform has said that mental health protection should be the main subject of the next national health and health plan. It is to be presented to the Stortinget as a message, and that is also why the majority of the population considered the proposal of the Centre to be superfluous, because the government has already announced a big message with a comprehensive emphasis on the field of mental health protection. In addition, the government is working on a stepping-up plan for the mental health of children and young people. This happens in addition to a strong build-up of mental health services in municipalities, in particular those aimed at children and young people, and that during this year we will introduce the first mental health package sequences, which will prevent people with mental health challenges to experience as much as they do today as they do in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e219	It opens for follow-up questions – first Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e224	I am also concerned about how the government and the minister prioritise mental health protection. It is serious, the situation in Norway now. Just listen to these new figures from the Public Health Institute about all those who are not diagnosed by day: two thirds of those with depression, 80 pst. of those with anxiety and over 90 pst. of those who have alcohol problems. Many of them have been to the municipal board, but figures from the Health Directorate show that up to 30 pst. of patients referred to adult mental health protection are rejected — without evaluation. In fact, there is now twice as high a risk of being rejected by healthcare if you have a mental illness as if you have an orthopaedic disorder. It actually shows that Norwegian healthcare discriminates against patients on the basis of diagnosis. And the government has not shown the will to change this fact, for it has been such a good time. When should psychiatric patients receive the same rights as other patients by referring to specialist healthcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e229	This description of the offer is the reason why this government has prioritised mental health. That's why we've reintroduced the ‘golden rule’, which the previous government has removed, that's why we've reduced the waiting time in mental health, that we're working on a stepping-up plan for children and young people's mental health, and on a number of other measures that I've mentioned. The fact that so many people are rejected in mental health is a big problem, which I also mentioned in my hospital speech, but it is quite possible to give an offer where one does not have that kind of rejection. It shows offers, among others: in Nordfjord and at Lovisenberg Hospital. That's why I've given very clear assignments to the health care community that they have to learn from those who get this, and do what they do, if they don't have better solutions themselves. In addition, it is incredibly important that people feel that there is a mental health service in municipalities. That is why we have decided that all municipalities should have psychological competence from 2020, and we have followed the process of building up psychological competence in the municipalities, and we now see almost a triple of the number of municipalities that have psychologists.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e238	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e243	The government’s ‘golden rule’, which says that the budgets of the psychiatry will increase more than in the somatic environment, is a mouthhole by the Minister of Health and this government. That's unfortunately the opposite that happens in our hospitals. In the psychiatry at the Nordlandssykehuset, since the Minister of Health started his job, they have reduced operations by 75 years. The requirement for savings in the last year's budget was 31,5 million. kr. ‘It seems like a vicious circle that provides a worse and worse service to patients’, said the clinic manager of Avisa Nordland in 2016. And we know that this year's budget doesn't get any easier. There have been reports of cuts in psychiatry from hospitals in all the health regions of the country. How can the Minister of Health talk about the ‘golden rule’ in his fifth year as the responsible State Council when we know that it is the opposite that happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e248	The situation is that more and more people are getting help in mental health, and waiting times are falling. In addition, a significant offer is being made in the municipalities. I would like to remind you that I took responsibility as Minister of Health in a situation where the offer of mental health aimed at children and young people had become worse in the last few years while the Workers' Party was running. Now evolution has turned around, and not only has it turned around, it has begun to take back the legacy that we inherited. In addition, we have reintroduced the ‘Golden Rule’. I am not satisfied with the follow-up of this rule by all health businesses, but I am at least very satisfied with, when I see the challenges we have in getting a priority for this field, that I am not in favour of the policy that the Workers' Party was pursuing, namely to remove the rule, because it shows very clearly that the field of mental health and drug priority is to be given to Norwegian health services, it requires strong and clear political governance. That's what this government stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e253	Nicholas Wilkinson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e258	Governments are right to demand strong political governance. Now we just got the results from the investigation department at Stortinget, which can tell the last year's mental health record. Psychiatric health protection for adults has been cut by 2.3 pst when calculating all costs. in Norway as a whole. Psychiatric health protection for children and young people has been cut by 1 pst. in the country as a whole. So the result that the investigation section has now come up with is that despite what the council says here, it's being cut in mental health protection. There have been many examples, and I'll give you even more. In Asker and Bærum, for whom I am a representative, they have, among other things, removed user controlled bed, which affects 20 patients, even if it should be prioritised, and spaces are shut down in both Asker and Bærum DPS. Will the Council of State guarantee that they will now change practice, and that the figures for this year, when they come, will show that there will finally be growth in actual figures, and not just in the words of the Council of State on the ‘golden rule’?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e268	In the follow-up of health regions, I am very clear that I expect other results in the follow-up of the ‘golden rule’ at the end of 2018 than what we saw at the end of 2017. But it's also worth noting that mental health protection is a field that's in big change. The representative Toppe was concerned that there is also a need here for significant system changes. One of the system changes that are taking place is that in Norway, we still have a very high proportion of people in the field of mental health protection in place for a longer period of time, higher than countries we can compare with. At the same time, we see that the results of treatment and follow-up, especially for people with complex mental disorders and drug dependence, are much better if they receive interdisciplinary follow-up in the municipalities, in cooperation between the specialist health service and the municipality. This means, among other things: that it is still possible to see that one in some places has too many beds, that one is busy with 24 hours instead of offering an offer that actually gives results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e275	Nicholas Wilkinson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e280	I notice that when the Council of State is confronted with the actual figures on the cuts that the government is implementing in the field of mental health protection, he talks about everything else. We all agree that there should be changes in the systems, but changes in the systems should not be better implemented by the government representing the Council of State, cutting money into mental health protection – 2.3 pst. cut in adult mental health protection and 1 pst. in mental health protection for children. Conversion requires investment, not cut. Yesterday, the opposition promoted several proposals together, precisely to help the government improve its policy: Five-year plan for the escalation of low-threshold mental health – voted down. Stop excesses for the treatment of children and young people – tuned down. No to outreach and prevention teams – from government parties. Low threshold mental health services in all municipalities – voted down. No action against the solitude of the elderly – voted down by the government parties. The investigation section provided the figures showing that the government cuts, despite the words of the Council of State on the ‘golden rule’. So I'm asking the same question again: can the Council of State now guarantee that when the figures for this year come, we'll see that the growth he's talking about, actually comes out in healthcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e289	A number of the proposals that were voted down yesterday were voted down for a good reason, simply because it is part of the work that I presented in the first answer. A national health and hospital plan, where mental health protection is a main theme, shall be submitted. One is in the middle of work on a stepping-up plan for the mental health of children and young people. The government parties and the majority in the UK have no reason to oblige the government to work on issues that are good at work. In order to give a picture to the representative, so that one sees the context: earlier it was that people with coercive disorders were mainly put in for a long time in the field of mental health protection, with relatively varying results, to say the least. Norway is now prominent in providing rapid outpatient help to people with coercive disorders with a high effect. That means, of course, that people who work there because people need care and care 24 hours a day when they have beds, are no longer needed when they provide a treatment that is more effective, like outpatient treatment. This is a large group of patients in mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e296	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e301	Early efforts towards children and young people are incredibly important for providing good health care, not least mental health care for this group. It gives better results, and it gives a better life for children and young people. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government decided in the last period that there would be an obligatory action plan, with the economy behind it, just to be able to bet on this group and to get better results. The Christian People's Party is concerned when this action plan comes. Now the government's had a hell of a lot of time. When's it coming? Does it come before summer or after summer? Will we see the impact of this in the 2019 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e306	We have an ambition to submit the plan of escalation in 2018, and we are in the middle of our work on it now. My colleague Åse Michaelsen and I are going to have recording meetings next week related to the escalation plan, and it's a job that we work well with. What comes into the budget for 2019, the representative knows that I can't say anything about it. But it is not that we are waiting for the escalation plan either. We have already put forward a mental health strategy, which points out the direction, and in addition, there has been a significant build-up of the offer, especially aimed at children and young people, on the part of the government, but not least we have also been helped by the budgetary comparisons we have made with the Christian People's Party here in the UK. There has already been a significant build-up of psychological competence in municipalities, both in health centres and in school health services, and also in other mental health services. That's positive, because this is an area where I fully agree with the representative that we need early response to children and young people with mental health challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e313	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e318	On 19 April, a majority in this Chamber agreed that we would like a new action plan for the prevention of suicide and that a zero vision should be considered as a goal. In the county of Northern Ireland they have had a zero vision of suicide, and they have worked with the LEVE organization, which is an organization of survivors who have really been in the loss of some of theirs, in addition to Mental Health. I wonder if the Council of State can say anything about how he will follow up this decision, whether he has the same goal of zero vision. I don't think we should have a lower target than that, because no one has to lose. How will the Council of State follow up the decision taken on 19 April of this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e323	As I said in that debate, I am in favour of creating a new action plan. The action plan that we have had, for which I myself was a proponent, expired at the turn of the year. All measures in that plan have been continued, so they have not been completed. But there is also good reason to start work on creating a new action plan. There, of course, we're going to consider the question of zero vision. I am pleased that Stortinget has said that it is something to be assessed, and has not concluded. It's challenging to put zero visions in healthcare in areas where one initially doesn't think one is going to get to zero. We need to take that on board, and then it will be assessed whether there is an appropriate target for the action plan, or whether there are other objectives for the action plan that are more appropriate. In line with the Storting decision, we get an assessment of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e328	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e334	My question goes to the State Council of Malta: ‘The desire to own their own dwelling lies deep in the Norwegian people’s economy. It's about identity. And it's about mental and economic security." These aren't my words. These are the words of the government in their own action plan for the housing market, where they describe very well how smart it is to save in owner-occupied housing, and that it is a goal that more people should own their own housing. But on April 23rd, i.e. two days ago, the SSB came up with a report that shows that the housing market in Norway is a different machine. In the last 15 years, the proportion of those with low income who own the dwelling has fallen by 10 percentage points. That's a lot. That means that there are many now who do not have the security that the government says they should have and who do not get part of the very large distribution of the economy that happens in the housing market – on the contrary. SV will pay for this by giving several young people the opportunity to start a loan so that they can buy. We want to increase the housing allowance, so that more people can keep and own a dwelling, and live safely. We want to change the tax system, so it's not only an advantage for those who own it, but also for those who rent it. All of this is against the government. On the contrary, the government has contributed to this difference in cut-backs in housing support and in the conversion of the tax system, which makes it even more profitable for those who are inside and have – and worse for those who are outside and do not have – a dwelling. Does the Council acknowledge that there is now a going wrong, when fewer with small incomes can own their own home, and that there are also fewer people who are receiving housing support who can now use the housing support to pay off their own safe home?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e348	The report to which the representative refers has been commissioned by the SSB from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. We have given that mission because we want to know about the situation in the market, because it should help us to develop housing policy further. It also means that the information we have received there will be used when we design new measures on the housing market to meet those who need it. I am very pleased that we have agreed across the board on the value of owning a dwelling, and it is true that most people in Norway own their own home. We also have record young people who own their own homes. That's great. We need tools that hit those who need it – not everyone. It's e.g. changes in initial loans which result in those who are in a lasting economic situation that do not receive loans in the ordinary credit market, are eligible for initial loans. Initial loans are not for everyone, starting loans are not for those who have a tight economy on a temporary basis, for example. Because they're students. The starting loan is for the group that needs it. They are persistently low-income families, but they can serve loans. And last year, a record number of start-up loans were paid out; almost 7,000 households in Norway were granted start-up loans, and over 50 pst. of whom were families of children. That means that the changes the government has made in recent years actually work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e357	We see from the numbers that they work, because the number of young people who owns is going down, and you get older before you can buy your own home. The proportion of those with low income — and many of them may be disadvantaged, but many of them also have a very small job, but poorly paid — that can own their own home, so they go down. It says these numbers, and if that's the government's policy that works, it seems in the wrong direction. Start-up loans should also be a scheme for young and first-time start-ups who are capable of operating but who do not have parents and relatives who can contribute to the marginalisation of the system. Therefore, it should be changed, so that more young people can begin to own and start paying off their own housing, which is the smartest saving anyone can do. Does it not seem to the Council of State that it must be an objective that more of the young people who have the ability to pay can start that payment themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e364	First of all, I must provide the factual information that this development has occurred since 2003. So there's a trend that's been going on for many, many years, even when SV has been in government for eight years. That is what this report documents. Then there are changes in housing support and start-up loans. The changes have not been cut, but changes have been made to make start-up loans better for those with persistent low income. No, I do not agree that it should apply to those who are temporarily in a difficult situation, for example. those of us who have studied and who have lived on student loans – we have to find out what we will be able to borrow in the ordinary housing market. And the state shouldn't lubricate thinly; we're going to help those who need it, and then it's an important value to own a home. We also know that immigration contributes to the entry of families with many children and low income into the housing market through start-up loans. That's very good. And the proportion of families with children increased last year to over 50 pst. That's when I mean it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e373	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e378	The Council of State is responsible for the housing aid, and the housing aid is now in kronor and ear less than it was in 2009. Housing prices have increased dramatically, the income of the low income groups has decreased, and the population has increased. Those who get housing support get to cover a smaller part of their bout toxins now than they got before. I brought with me the Husbank's Annual Report from 2015, where they say that even the minimum pensioners are now considered a high-income group in the housing support system. This seems to the Council of State to be good. SV will greatly increase housing support, so that those with low income can live safely, and also pay down more than today on owner-occupied housing, as it was before. The report shows that fewer people with housing support now do so, and owns their own home – so they pay down on other people's mortgages. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e385	Changes in housing aid have been made over several years. That means that fewer get, but we get the right payment of housing support. That's my starting point. Once again, just the fact that we're now using real-time information makes more people get decent housing support. We avoid a situation where people who are in a difficult economic situation get the wrong housing support, which means that they get large bills from the state to repay the housing support. This is one of the reasons why fewer people get – because fewer people are entitled to it. Then the housing support was decided in a crowned manner last year. That's good. This means that housing support can keep pace with price developments. But I think it's good that those who get housing get it, and don't have to pay back because we're based on old information.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e394	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e399	It is only to record that the Council of State believes it is right that fewer people get, when housing prices increase and they labor on the housing market. That is a political position. But the Council of State is also responsible for how housing is to be built, and one of the government's steps has been to build such tiny apartments, so small and dark, that it is hardly possible to offer them to people, as it was in the evening post a few days ago. That you shouldn't be able to turn around a wheelchair is kind of going to make the prices go down. And the Council of State knows just as well as I do that prices are put on the market, and then prices don't go down. In addition, many of the small dwellings in the centre are now bought up by speculators and rented out, many times as pure hotels. This means that there will be fewer homes to buy for the young people who need it, and that the scarce area we have will not be used for housing, but for business activities. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e408	The President must ask that speaking time be observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e413	I note that the representative gives me an opinion I do not have. I believe that those who need it should have both housing support and start-up loans, but it should not be for everyone. We have other arrangements that are adapted to most people, and most people get both loans and can own their own housing without the help of the state. But we're going to have good arrangements for those who need it, and we're going to make better now than before. When fewer people get, it is because there were several wrong payments, and the representative cannot disagree that it is good that we have fixed it. Then I find that the representative is both in favour and against that we build more dwellings – because the housing prices go down, but against because the dwellings are getting smaller. Several dwellings are built, and we have made it easier to build more reasonable dwellings. That's what the builders report. Dwellings become more reasonable when we have cleaned up regulations, laws and regulations, which make it more predictable both for the municipalities and for the builders. Then we get more apartments on the market, and that's good for the price level. We've also made owning secondary homes less favourable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e421	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e426	One challenge is that more and more disabled people are struggling to keep their own housing. The allocation of housing support has been cut heavily under the blue-blue government. This does not mean that the need is reduced, but the government is tightening up the criteria for getting housing support. In the housing market, the problem has been even worse, and it is particularly difficult to do so. Unfair reform led to a higher gross pre-tax income, while net income, which is what they are going to live on, is the same. Victims who had housing support before the reform came into force have received a compensation scheme, but the workers who have arrived after it are not covered by this compensation. The government has been asked to rectify this, but has not followed up. Does this mean that the government believes that the cut in housing aid for disabled people should be a permanent solution that will affect all new workers in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e435	The President is a little uncertain as to whether this is within the constitutional remit of the Council of State, but leaves it to the Council of State to decide whether she will respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e440	The housing support is at least within my area. There have been changes in housing support. So I think we're better off using more recent information. We've also made a crown adjustment. So this is an estimate, it's a rights-based allocation, where there were no changes last year, and there's not been any changes this year. We have a special situation, with a transitional arrangement that the Stortinget has decided to apply to those who had dissatisfaction before the reform was implemented, and that is what we are dealing with. The new people who come in have to deal with the new rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e447	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e452	My question goes to the Minister for Development. The Christian People's Party recently launched a separate development message, in which we proposed a comprehensive quality reform in Norwegian aid. It is particularly important that the money for the poor in the world appears and is spent in the best possible way. The message of the Christian People's Party resulted in a number of suggestions. A number of them have been adopted, and we are now waiting for their implementation by the government. There is more poverty correction of aid, more carefreeness, increased support for the central functions of the state and the choice of partner countries. But there's one thing that's particularly important. For a long time, the Christian People's Party has demanded a quality reform of the management of the aid. The experience, where the U.D. has all the seats, has led to a confusion of aid competence and a lack of transparency and inefficient management. It has also led — I would say — to the consolidation of foreign policy and development policy priorities. This is unfortunate. That's why it's good that we're now seeing a reform coming. It is good that the government has notified this. So the question is, what kind of reform is the government taking? Even if this is the government's responsibility, we know that the parties at Stortinget were consulted when Rightt was last put in government and an aid reform was made in 2004. The reason for that is that the kind of change that a person makes should be over time, regardless of government, and have a broad consensus. It's the same thing now. So my question is, how far does the Council of State have come in its preconventions in this important area? And can we expect the government to consult the parties on the Storting before such a great reform decision is taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e467	Let me first thank you for the question. I began to wonder for a moment whether I should not be asked, and I am very pleased that the representative Hareide used the opportunity in my first spontaneous questioning. On the issue of reform, I think it is first important to establish that there is a need for reform, and that has been for a long time. Many studies have been carried out on the relationship between the U.D. and Norad over many years, all of which have highlighted the need for reform. The changes that have been made have improved the situation somewhat, but have not responded to the challenges we believe we see in the cooperation relationship between the U.D. and Norad. It's especially about the interface between what's a policy and what's a subject. There are some cases of duplication of work between a directorate and a department, and there is a need to maintain top-notch skills in selected areas. This is a field that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I work together on. Regardless of the changes you may choose to make, there will also be consequences for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and there is the Minister of Foreign Affairs who has the primary responsibility for the department’s equipment — even if Norad sortes under my responsibility. So there's going to be close cooperation between us, and when we're ready for that, we're going to put this forward in an appropriate way. Of course, we're busy listening to good recordings from good allies in all parties, not least in the Christian People's Party, in the process that comes. So we're in the starting pit, and we'll, of course, accept good recordings along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e476	I thank you for your answer. I am particularly pleased that the Council of State is so clear that there is a need for reform. I think the experience we have shows very clearly that we need a change. Then we have seen the reform that came in 2004, and it is very important that we do not repeat errors that occurred in 2004. Because then I think we do not ensure a robust enough framework for aid and development management. Quality, efficiency and competence have been affected. Since the Council of State also mentioned Norad, I would say that in this reform it is very important that we get a strengthened Norad, which is the trades union directorate in this field. My question is: does the Council of State add to the strengthening of Norad in its reform work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e485	I think it's a little early for me to advertise in the main hall how I intend to put up a reform. We have not yet reached the point that it is clear to say something more specific about it. That Norad has an important role to play today, there is no doubt about it, but I do not necessarily agree with the issue that Hareide is raising. It was also not the starting point for the 2004 studies, namely that we are unable to distinguish between development policy and foreign policy. After all, we have a separate Minister for Development, and I assume that the representative Hareide trusts that the Minister for Development is able to sort out what is primarily motivated by development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e490	It opens for follow-up questions – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e495	That part of the answer actually worries me more. First of all, I think it's very important that those priorities become clearer than they are today. Today, both foreign policy and development policy priorities can stand against each other, and it is not least difficult to focus on the one if one is to focus on both. My question was very simple. Is it so that Norad is strengthened? What I mean is, I'm the very founding point for now getting into a reform. For 14 years we have experienced a department that has been overburdened and has not managed the reform well enough, so I just want to repeat the question of a significant strengthening of Norad and whether the foreign stations through their own aid schemes are given that particular priority. What I think is such a simple question that the Council of State must also be able to answer it at such an early stage of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e503	The aim is better development policy outcomes, and the instruments must then be adapted to the objective. Then there may be different opinions about how the instruments should be set up. But we can't disagree on the goal, I hope, which is just that we're going to get even more of the resources we use in the development field, and make sure that we can do even more to reduce poverty, help achieve the sustainability goals and help those who need our common help most. I want to warn the representative Hareide a little bit about committing to the objective of the instrument. It is far too early to say what the arrangements for this reform will gradually be, but the important thing – as I said – is that we focus on what is the goal, and there are the best possible results in development policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e510	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e515	On Monday, Redd Ullevål Hospital organized a large public meeting to prevent the hospital from being laid down, as decided by the management of Health South-East and OYS. The message from the meeting was clear: Ullevål Hospital is Norway's largest and most important emergency hospital, with an advanced trauma department and important emergency services for the whole of Norway. Surgery Pål Aksel Næss and head of the trauma department at Ullevål Hospital, Tina Gaarder, are among many who have warned that closure will pose a great risk to the lives of patients. Naess and Gaarder were at the head of the team that rescued 30 out of 31 terrorists after July 22. The Department of Traumatology of Ullevål Hospital enjoys international reputation and is considered one of Europe's best trauma wards. Then Ullevål also acts as a traumatizer for the whole of the South East and is important for the safety of the population in the event of disasters. The health bureaucrats are now planning a $9 billion project. kr to build a new trauma center on Gaustad. There is too little space to move the trauma center together, and the functions have to be shared between Aker and Gaustad, which can weaken the quality. The investments planned at Gaustad are so extensive that they could also endanger the reopening of Aker as a large local hospital in Groruddalen. Does the Council of State believe that the closure of Ullevål Hospital, with its trauma department, is sound health policy and can the Council of State ensure that reopening of Aker Hospital will not be postponed, as a consequence, if the new plans for Gaustad are implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e526	I fully agree with the representative's description of the importance of the competence and capacity of the trauma unit at Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål, today. It has an important — and not only regional — but also national — function. It is therefore important that Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East, when one is now planning for the new hospital structure in the Oslo area, of course, it takes care of that function and the role. The function and role are not linked to the location Ullevål, it is linked to the people who work there, the skills they have, and the systematic work they do. This is now part of the very central investigation going on around these questions. The hospital structure of Oslo is finally clarified. The fact that it was not clarified has created many unnecessary delays and problems in planning the health service in our capital. A new, large emergency hospital is to be built on Aker. The Gaustad Hospital should also be an emergency hospital, with the national functions it currently has. The Radium Hospital department is to be further developed as an important centre for the radiation treatment of cancer and is also of national importance. In addition, the Diakon home Hospital and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital are to be further developed as an important local hospital in Oslo. That's what's meant by the work that's now done, and that will mean that once that goal is achieved, Ullevål Hospital is closed down as a hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e533	There was no answer when it came to reopening the Aker hospital, as a consequence of the plans for Gaustad. I would like an answer to that question. So the scientific community clearly says that a condition for ensuring the trauma center and for it to work well is that it is kept together. We know there's no room for an overall environment in Gaustad. It must be shared between Gaustad and Aker hospitals, in which case. We also know that there was a fatal error in the time when Aker hospital was shut down, which is now reopened due to poor decisions in the past. Now we can make the same mistakes one more time by shutting down Ullevål Hospital and breaking up one of Europe's best and most important professional environments for traumatology. I would like to ask the Council of State to answer what will happen, both with Aker hospitals and postponement and with an overall professional environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e542	The plans are very clear that the development of the new acute hospital in Aker will take place in parallel with the development in Gaustad. What is the threat to the development of Aker is what the representative is calling for, namely to maintain Ullevål hospitals. If the representative is concerned that we are going to build a large emergency hospital on Aker, which I fully agree with, and move back to Oslo de districts of Oslo that are now soaking up to Ahus – it is also absolutely necessary for Ahus to have the capacity to handle population growth in Akershus – then one cannot fight at the same time to keep Ullevål hospitals. Then there will be no basis for that. It is absolutely essential that this work be done in parallel, but this will mean that Ullevål Hospital will not be a hospital when the future solution is in place. But this is many years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e551	It opens for follow-up questions – first Bears Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e556	The plans are ready. They mean that the trauma functions on Ullevål are transferred to Gaustad in step 1, but in the same step 1, there is not enough space on Gaustad for this trauma center. The plans are unrealistic and funding is not guaranteed either. That's a What has happened in Oslo in the past, with the closure of Aker Hospital, is a clear example of how wrong it can be when the management of the hospitals is left to the directors of the health bureaucrat rather than being subject to direct public administration. Does the Council of State think that what has happened at Aker Hospital, and what is now happening, with the closure of Ullevål Hospital, are examples of a good governance of the health care system?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e565	In fact, I am the one who has decided the structure in Oslo – the goal of it. So it's under popular governance. It has happened in an enterprise meeting. The challenge has been that health ministers before me did not take sufficient responsibility and cut through in this discussion – we had a continuous discussion about what the structure of Oslo should be like. It has delayed planning and its development. The structure of Oslo is determined. The main structure consists of an emergency hospital in Gaustad, a large emergency hospital in Aker, the Radium hospital as a cancer hospital, the Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital and the Diakon home Hospital as a local hospital. The functional distribution between these is a process currently in progress. It is a good idea that all interested parties are also part of this. But it is quite obvious that Oslo University Hospitals will still have to have an important regional and national function related to trauma treatment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e572	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e577	The plans for the OYS and the structure that the Council of State says he has decided are totally irresponsible, and there has been a performance in unrealistic and gigantic plans. The first time I heard about this, I thought it was a joke, but today it's a decision point in an OUS board meeting. We can read that a new Oslo hospital will have 150,000 fewer overnight stays this year. Nearly 50,000 of them are to be transferred to the municipality of Oslo – daily treatment to be transferred to the municipality of Oslo without being told by the municipality of Oslo. 50,000 overnight stays must be made more effective. The background for the whole development plan is not at stake. It is unlikely that it is important not to put Ullevål down, and there is a great need for Aker hospitals to be in place quickly with full functions in order for patients in the Oslo area to have a local hospital. What is the plan of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e589	The Council of State's plan has now been heard repeatedly by the representative. It's the one that's working for. The plan for a large giant hospital in Oslo, which was worked on when I took over after the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and SV in government, was stopped once and for all. I fully agree that there were totally unrealistic plans, and therefore there is certainly something quite different, namely that Oslo should have more emergency hospitals, including the construction of a new, large emergency hospital in Aker, to which I experience Oslo's population and Oslo's city government is very positive. Ullevål has a building mass that does not allow the development of Ullevål as a modern, future hospital. There's also something we have to take inwards. One cannot in such a situation preserve Ullevål and at the same time build a large hospital on Aker, on Gaustad and maintain the Diakon home and Lovisenberg as a good local hospital. It doesn't really work out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e598	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e603	The Minister of Health can only stand still – and make sure that he moves 30 minutes a day anyway! In Norway, you should receive good health care and treatment no matter who you are, or where you live — but unfortunately it is not. We know that several things are going in the wrong direction under this Minister of Health. The increasing divisiveness of healthcare means that more people no longer trust that the community has the best offer. It confirmed the Health Barometer a little while ago. Cancer is the big disease that people fear most. There are 30,000 of us who get this diagnosis every year. The extent of private treatment has grown, and many of them can be at the cutting edge of both medicine and technology. This happens at the same time that people see and feel that our community health service has to do very unfortunate cuts. Last week, the Minister of Health presented the new cancer strategy to make Norway a precursor country for cancer treatment. It is launched at the same time as hospitals all over the country are alerting cutbacks and postponing investments in radiation capacity and equipment. How will the Council of State manage to improve cancer treatment for all patients regardless of who you are, and where you live, when hospitals have to cut and postpone investments in equipment and technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e616	I do not agree with the situation description provided by the representative. Firstly, through our five state budgets, this government has facilitated a higher growth in patient treatment than the previous government has facilitated in eight budgets. In addition, we have had a significant improvement in cancer treatment for Norwegian cancer patients by introducing 28 courses for cancer patients, which cancer patients experience as a significant improvement in quality. The prioritisation message, the New Approach system, ensures that we ensure that new treatments for cancer are applied equally across the country, accessible to all patients, are prioritised according to democratically anchored principles and with a completely different transparency than that in the past. This is a system that I perceive is also working party 100 pst. rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, etc. Now we have presented a new cancer strategy. It will very much focus on two aspects: One is that there are going to be significant numbers in this country who are going to live with both the damage of cancer treatment and cancer, because cancer is increasingly becoming a chronic disease. That means that we need to have a completely different attention around the offer that, among other things, are provided in the municipalities. For this reason, the government will also develop the ‘Home Package’ for cancer patients. The second is the development that we see in treatment related to personalised medicine and new forms of treatment. Norway should not least use our important quality records, such as the Cancer Register, to be at the forefront in this area. I am absolutely convinced that cancer patients in Norway, as we have seen in recent years, will experience improvements in treatment and improved survival.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e631	It is good to hear that the Council of State is pleased with the work done on the previous cancer strategy, which was presented by Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre. We both know that the possibility of good cancer progression is about having the ability to have accurate and good image diagnostics, it's about good radiation capacity, it's about succeeding with all of these pieces. The working party has proposed the money needed for new radiation centres – in Drammen, in Skien, in Østfold and Lørenskog – and for the two national proton centres, which provide safe and gentle treatment. The cancer strategy now presented by the Council of State sets out the list of these good treatments to survive and prevent sensitisation. This requires these investments, which are pushed on and which are not realised in relation to what is planned. How are hospitals to follow the bold objectives of this cancer strategy on early and accurate diagnostics and minor damage when feedback is that they need to push for important investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e638	Good patient trajectories, cancer package trajectories, are not about the quality of each piece, from which the representative's questions can give the impression. No, it's just about making the pieces stick together. That was the challenge when I took responsibility as Minister of Health. It was not the quality of the individual pieces that was the problem for cancer patients in dealing with cancer treatment. The problem was that they were very afraid that no one took responsibility for that, for example. diagnostic imaging was ordered and the treatment was started at the right time. That's exactly what we've been cleared up into through a cycle of cancer packages, as former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said we had nothing to learn from Denmark about. The provision of the establishment of proton centres has been the subject of a separate financing mechanism by the government. Planning the two centres is well under way. In addition, in this year's budget, we have allocated money to build the new hospital building on the Radium Hospital, which requires large investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e645	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e650	That's the strangest reasoning I've ever heard. The fact that the pieces in a process are not important is quite strange. I think he was a little overheated to respond offensively, the good councillor, because it's just that the pieces are connected, and that there's free radiation capacity, which is needed to get a good patient run. As late as today, we heard the news that the decision-makers, who have a central role and are an important part of these coherent processes, are also important in the treatment of any cancer patient in Norway. They are now deleting patients from their lists to make the hours a day go up. This fixed crisis is well-appointed, and what happens is that the challenges for this council are rising because you're more concerned about responding to the snow that fell last year. How has the Council of State planned to add new tasks to the decision-makers before meeting the challenges that this baseline in healthcare represents?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e657	I fully agree that the PCs are incredibly important, so the PCs also have a very central role in the package processes. The package sequences are a tool to connect the prescribers more clearly to the hospitals, and we get positive feedback on that. We have challenges related to the recruitment of enough permanent doctors. That is why I have restored my tripartite cooperation with the Medical Association and KS, which was abolished by the previous government. In this work, we are now discussing the tools we are going to work with the Medical Association and the municipalities to strengthen the recruitment of permanent doctors. We see that the list length goes down. The size has decided that they want the list length to decrease, precisely because the decision-makers feel that they have more to do with the individual patient. Then it's very important that we focus on what's absolutely central, how we're going to recruit even more regulars, so that patients get a good offer in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e666	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e671	I would like to draw attention to Rogaland, where the poor hospital economy has serious consequences. As the Council of State knows, the 2 East Egersund rehabilitation offer has been proposed, not to improve the rehabilitation offer, but to build a new hospital in Stavanger, due to a tight hospital economy. The consequences for health provision in the region are serious, and they are across what the Council of State wants. This is a sort of torpedoing of the interaction reform, it is poor interaction with the municipalities. This will mean a halving of the rehabilitation sites, i.e. a dwindling and not a escalating of rehabilitation, and that will mean a centralization of health services, not a decentralisation, as Höie wants. State Council Höie has itself said that the conversion of specialist health services relating to municipalities should not be carried out until the municipalities are able to handle this. The municipalities of Rogaland are clear: they are not ready. They're not reluctant, but they need time to build skills. And it's the patients who become the losers in this game. My question is: does the Council of State agree that it is not necessary to rush down rehabilitation sites before the municipality is ready?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e677	My mission to the hospitals is that insofar as they reduce their offer in rehabilitation, they have to do so in good processes with the municipalities and make sure that there are others who can take over. This is a matter that I believe is definitely best decided locally by the board of Health Stavanger in cooperation with the relevant municipalities. I do not agree with the unilateral description of the reasons put forward by the representative. A significant reason for this investigation is that the hospital believes that part of the rehabilitation tasks carried out in this department today can be better done by the municipalities and belong to the municipalities. It's not centralization, it's further decentralization. The hospital and Health Stavanger also have a responsibility to ensure that they do not take from any municipalities tasks that other municipalities in their area do for themselves. It would also be unfair to the municipalities that solve this themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e684	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e689	Public hospitals are today very pressured. A lot of people think that we already have a two-part health care system. When this government arrived in 2013, the Council of State said that the introduction of free treatment options would make health insurance superfluous. That's not true. The most important driver of a two-part healthcare system is when the public becomes weak and the private has to take on very important supplies, like the new private clinic in Majorstua, which HOD has approved, the first private hospital for prostate cancer surgery, where the crew consists of lizards in the public sector. This should have happened in public. It's for patients who have an insurance policy. Will the Council of State take new steps to prevent a two-fold division of the health system?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e694	The representative is quite right – it is not true that I said that free treatment options were going to make health insurance redundant. I am pleased that the representative notes this. What I said was that the introduction of free treatment options, that we could buy more of the available capacity of the private to reduce public health cows, would make it less necessary for people to have private health insurance in order to carry out what they have the right to do by paying taxes and being a member of the Norwegian population. Fortunately, that's what we've given us. The growth in the sale of private health insurance has been flattened, but the most important thing is that waiting times are significantly reduced. When I took over, the waiting time was on average 74 days. At the end of 2017, it was an average of 57 days. This helps to prevent a two-way sharing of healthcare, because it is not the thickness of the wallet that determines whether you have freedom of choice in healthcare or not, but that it is the public that pays.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e699	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e704	My question goes to the Council of State Monica Meland. The Ministry has departed from the investigation instruction by failing to conduct an open consultation on the new names of the six new counties, which was the result of the coercion of the counties adopted in June 2017. The government’s own instructions provide that changes to the law should normally be sent at general consultation. The Ministry’s reason for not complying with the instructions is that the choice of county names has been a long and open process in the respective county municipalities. The choice of county names is not limited to the counties covered by the merger decisions; there are issues that involve and do not least affect many who have not been involved in the ministry’s internal processes. Names of counties are important from a historical and cultural perspective and also affect surrounding counties. Many reactions have therefore been made to the lack of consultation and to the name choices proposed in the government’s proposal. We noticed that yesterday we took part in the Committee's hearing on the matter. When today's county name was adopted in 1918, it was the result of a larger trade union work, a thorough consultation round and a comprehensive political process. It is very unfortunate that the government has not prioritised this in 2018. My question is therefore: does the Council of State understand the reactions that the Ministry has broken its own instructions on the general consultation of legislative proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e717	I can assure the representative that the government has not broken the investigation instructions. I can also assure the representative that the world is quite different today than it was in 1918, when there were other rules about both openness and transformation and not least other social media than what we have today. We have had a long process related to new county names, and they have been duly treated in the counties concerned. They have also been treated in non-affected fillings. We've heard the completion and we've heard the Language Council. We've got a lot of input from a lot of different people in this case, we've made thorough assessments, and it's explained. The case that attracted the greatest attention in affected counties who were not to participate in merger – in the Rogaland and More and Romesdal counties – was linked to the name of the West, later Westland. In addition, I have had a meeting with them to hear their views. It is our starting point that this case is very well informed, and that Stortinget has a good basis for making a final decision in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e724	I hear that the Council of State believes that there has been no breach, but I assume that the Council of State agrees that at least points 3 to 3 of the investigation manual have been waived, which says that, among other things, legislative proposals shall be consulted in general. The language council, the government’s professional body — or expert body — has been consulted in the work on the new names of county municipalities, but their input has been listened to to to a very small extent. The language council has also been very diverse in its own processes with names. The Language Council, together with other linguistic environments, has warned against the names of the West, Apologies, Westland, Viken and Inland. They have substantiated their objections in depth and made representations to other names or rewritings that the Language Council believes are more in line with linguistic traditions in the areas concerned. The question then arises: What is the reason for the government to put aside the government's professional body, the recommendations of the Language Council so strongly?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e731	I perceive that we have had a good and comprehensive process in this matter. We've listened to the Language Council. The Language Council has not said that the word Vestland is a poor Norwegian language. They have disagreed with the geographical breakdown related to the new region. That's a completely different reason than bad language. In the case of the Viking, the recommendation from the Vika Language Council was. None of the municipalities involved wanted that, and in the case of the Inland, I perceive that it is well incorporated. First of all, we have listened to those involved, listened to those who have dealt with this, who are largely political, who are elected, and who are responsible for their regions. It's been crucial. As far as Westland is concerned, of course, I listened carefully to what both Rogaland and More and Romsdal said, but it is a little special to say that because they have not come to a conclusion on the matter, they are not listening to. They have been listened to, but it is not that it has been crucial for the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e742	There will be follow-up questions – first Wilfred Nordlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e747	I noticed that the Council of State suddenly felt that the Language Council disagreed with the geographical association, which has become the new county municipality. I believe it is to believe that the Language Council has taken a decision on something they have not done at all. State councils write in their proposition on the new county names: ‘The opinion of the Language Council has also been the subject of public debate. The name issue has also been extensively referred to, both in the national media and in the local press.’ It may seem misleading, because the Language Council was asked to give an opinion on the different names after the discussion and conclusion in the counties were well under way – even after the decision had been taken. For example, in Hedmark and Oppland, the county name was discussed in a joint county council on 24 October 2017, while the department first asked the Council for advice on 6 November 2017. My question will then be whether the Council of State cannot see the value of having a thorough process and consultation carried out, however, although I can see that the Council of State initially felt it was unnecessary, especially in the light of the turmoil and debate that has occurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e760	I understand that we have had a long, open and good debate with a lot of commitment – that's good. I think the latest developments now linked to the Language Council and to the consultation show that there has been an open and good debate. The decision is not yet taken. It is not the case that the advice of the Language Council has been taken up at a time when the decision is taken. It is this hall that is to decide. The opinion of the Language Council on this is well known. If the representative reads the recommendation of the Language Council, he sees that they say the word Western is good, Western is good too, but when it only includes two out of four Western states, they think it is a wrong decision. It's about geography – it's not about language. I've put a decisive emphasis on what over 90 pst. in the county of Sogn and Fjordane and in Hordaland, has been thought to have been decisive. It is the municipal autonomy that has been crucial to our decision and our attitude towards the Storting. But this is where the decision is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e767	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e781	There will be a number of changes in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic question list in the salapp. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from Mr Nordlund's representative to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for Defence who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister of Industry on behalf of the Minister of Defence, who has gone away. At the request of the Minister of Industry, the question is moved and answered before question 11, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 7 and 8 from Siri Gassemyr Staalesen and Torstein Tvedt Solberg, respectively, to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative Seher Aydar to the Minister for Industry, will be raised by the representative Bjørn Moxnes. Question 17, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for Industry on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Industry, the question is moved and answered in response to question 10, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 18, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health, has been transferred to the Minister for Health who is directing him. Question 19, from the representative Ole André Myhrvold to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has left. Question 22, from the representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, has been transferred to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, who has been removed. Question 26, from the representative Heidi Greni to the Minister for Justice, Preparedness and Immigration, has been transferred to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e809	‘As part of the government’s centralisation of Norway, almost half of the country’s tax office is to be closed down by the end of next year. After that, there will only be 57 offices left. Very many taxpayers now have to accept some very long journeys to the nearest tax office. At the same time, 564 employees will have to change their place of work. Can the Council of State guarantee taxpayers and employees that all the 57 remaining offices will be with local management and have at least the same crew as today?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e816	The government does not pursue a policy of centralisation of Norway. The new office structure of the tax system is a sensible and necessary step to enable it to meet major challenges related to labour crime, economic crime and an increasingly digitised and international economy. A pooling of fiscal competences in less and wider professional environments increases the impact of the ETA on priority areas, as well as more equal treatment and legal certainty for taxpayers. With the old office structure, the tax rate was spread over too many and too small a trade union environment. Today, the vast majority of taxpayers are satisfied with their need for contact with the tax rate either by means of good digital services or by telephone. This is supported by the fact that the number of visits to tax offices nearly halved from 2012 to 2015. For the vast majority of taxable persons, therefore, the route is not a problem because they have to meet their needs without having to visit tax offices physically. The only public service where there is an obligation to attend tax offices is identity control. The identity check of the tax office is currently carried out at 42 locations, which are exactly the same number as in the old office structure. The representative asks if I can guarantee that all the remaining offices will consist of local management and have the same staff as today. My answer to this is no. It would be irresponsible for me to provide guarantees to maintain an exact number of offices or a given number of employees in each office. In order to ensure tax revenue and to contribute to the fullest possible compliance with the tax rules, the tax director must keep under constant review how best to use the tax revenue resources. As previously stated to the Storting, the power of the tax administration to introduce a new office structure does not prevent the tax rate from proposing later adjustments to the office structure if this is considered appropriate. In this case, such proposals will be submitted to the Ministry of Finance for approval in line with usual practice. The government works for a good use of society's resources, including: by increasing digitisation and a more efficient public sector. In line with these objectives, the number of employees in the tax base has been reduced in recent years. This is a development that will continue and will also affect the number of employees in tax offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e827	It is quite clear that the government is pursuing a policy of centralisation of Norway. It happens in many sectors. It happens within the police, it happens within the defense, it happens within municipalities and regions. In concrete terms, the number of tax offices has decreased from 107, as it was in the past, and one goes down to 57 – against local attitudes, for advice from those who work in the tax system. And in terms of work-life crime, it's just a good argument that you should be close to that one, among other things. shall be able to carry out visits and identity checks — as the State Council itself mentions. In my response from the Council of State, I find that the Council of State gives the tax administration power to further centralisation in addition to what has already been done. So the question is, how far down in the number of tax offices are you going to go? After a comprehensive process with almost half of tax offices gone, one will continue to centralise. How far is it going to go before one is willing to say stop from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e834	I would recommend the representative Geelsvik to listen to what I actually said. I did not say that I had given an authorisation to continue reducing the number of employees. I said that it is important that the tax director always follow the social development that we have and adapt the resources of the budget to it. Nor is it true, although the Central Party likes to repeat the claim, that this government centralises Norway. No, we don't. What we're doing is equiping our community services for the new societal challenges we're facing. When society changes, when societal challenges change, public services need to change accordingly. If we don't do good community services for our citizens, then we don't do our job. With regard to changes in the office structure, I would like to remind you that the distribution there does not give any spatial change. It is rather Oslo and Akershus that come out worse, while the local geographical distribution is going to be about like today. So that's not a covering for the claims of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e847	The thing is that one had 107 tax offices and went down to 57. The Council of State also opened in its first reply that one should go down further. The mission given to the tax haven was not to create a model for better services. No, it was that one should have fewer and larger offices in the future, a scheme for centralization. There are a lot of people who work in the tax bill, and a lot of those who use the tax bill, who strongly disagree with what has already happened, and who are now afraid that there will be further centralisation in the future. It is important that the structure that is now laid down, even though the Central Party was against it, that one ensures that at least the 57 offices that remain are strengthened and have at least as many employees as before that one still has local management. Obviously, it will not confirm the case in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e852	The tax base is a very forward-looking establishment. It is service-oriented and dedicated to providing good services to its citizens. It is possible that the representative, Gülsvik, has not come to the conclusion that digitisation in Norway is speeding up, that most of us are not physically looking for the tax offices, but are doing our business with the tax authorities digitally or by telephone. It's a development that's going to continue. Then my job is to make sure that the services provided by the tax haven to the inhabitants are adapted to the requirements and needs of the inhabitants. It is also about facilitating better services. It is a demand from an overall increase that we should use the resources of the tax system to combat labour-life crime, to combat financial crime. Then we need good, powerful units that are able to do that job, along with other government agencies. I believe that we have arranged for this, and that also shows the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e859	Question 2 has been moved and will be answered before question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e867	‘The Party of Foreign Ministers has, in its government, increased the electricity charge time and time again. This gives people higher electricity prices and lower economies the most. Now the government opens up to build several foreign tables that will further increase the flow prices. Will the government freeze the electricity charge to prevent further increases in the electricity price in Norway?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e874	The electricity charge has not been substantially increased, either in the State budget for 2017 or 2018, adjusted only for price growth. That's why I'm surprised that the Center Party is now coming up with this question. The electricity tax has actually stood still for other government budgets in a row. I would like to remind you that the Central Party itself has submitted several budget proposals with an increased electricity charge. The electricity charge shall provide the State with revenues for roads, schools, hospitals, defence and well-being and contribute to the reduction of electricity consumption. Under this government, the electricity charge is set at a total of 3.5 øre per kilowatt hour, in addition to the adjustment for general price growth. Of the total electricity price, which for households is 1 kr per kilowatt hour, this is small, but for people with older dwellings and low incomes, even a small increase in electricity billing may be demanding. The important thing for consumers is that the electricity price they pay is at a decent level. Price fluctuations have mainly been determined by the situation in the power market, which depends, inter alia, on: in the case of reservoirs and in the case of winter temperatures. Once again, it is tempting to remind the centre party that the last time they joined the government, the electricity price was mostly significantly higher than it has been in recent years – without the then government reducing the electricity charge. I believe that taxes and taxes must be seen as a whole. This government has reduced taxes and taxes by 24 billion. kr. For a family with two full-time incomes, it means about NOK 10000 less in tax per year. The government has also said that it will reduce property taxes, which will give ordinary families better advice. In comparison, the Centre proposed for 2018 net tax reinforcements of 6 billion. kr. Then the representative takes up the question of power cables abroad. It is a question that needs to be addressed to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Of course, adding more power cables to the rest of the world is an important question, but the electricity charge has no connection with how many power cables we have to the rest of the world. Charges shall be paid for the power supplied here in the country, whether the power has been produced domestically or imported through cables from abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e887	While the Progress Party has been in government, the electricity charge has been increased, only in 2014, it increased on 1 January 2015, it increased on 1 July 2015, and it increased on 1 January 2016. On four different occasions, an active choice has been made to increase the electricity charge in excess of the price increase. It is a fact that the Progress Party has done so. Now there's a new discussion about building NorthConnect from Norway, and the NorthConnect concession application says it's black on white that it's going to lead to an increase in power prices in Norway. Then, of course, the sum of the various measures taken by the government is, by now, making it possible to have more foreignables, and by actively choosing to increase the electricity charge many times as a government – not the red-green government, this government has chosen – that the charging for Norwegian electricity consumers has increased, and the electricity price is also going to rise due to NorthConnect. Is it a wise development, or should you do any action that will keep the power price at a low level?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e894	I would have been a little careful to refer to the state budget for 2014 if I was the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum. So it was a budget this government inherited from the government of the Battle of Vedum. When we presented the supplementary proposal, we had removed the increase in the electricity charge that the previous red-green government – led by Jens Stoltenberg, and of which Battle Violence Vedum was a member – had intended to do. It was correct to increase, but it happened as part of the budget agreement in Stortinget. So I just want to repeat what I said in my previous answer: there's not necessarily a connection between power cables and power prices. I would also like to remind you that the electricity price in the last few years has been much lower than it was when the central party was responsible for government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e901	As the Minister of Finance is well aware, one of the important things we did was to increase Norwegian power development, precisely in order to achieve a better balance in the Norwegian power market. It's worked. In the Centre Party's alternative budget, everyone who has income below NOK 700000 is taxed at a lower rate. In addition, there is a lower level of charges. The fees that the Progress Party has increased have increased by 6.6 billion. kr since Siv Jensen became Minister of Finance in Norway. The problem with taxes is that they are not differentiated by income. They all hit as hard, and then it hits those who have the least income, hardest. Can we expect more from the line that the Progress Party has put on, that they will finance their huge tax cuts at a few very few with increased taxes for most people? Or are we going to see a new line from the Progress Party now, that the fees are going down because it has a better social profile, or are they going to continue to increase, as Siv Jensen has facilitated for the years she has been Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e910	That's the sum of what you do in the tax area, which means something to the wallet of the individual family. The figures are very clear: the Central Party's alternative budget increased taxes by 6 billion. kr. This government has reduced the tax and tax burden by 24 billion. kr. It goes without saying how it will affect the economy of businesses, households and the individual quite differently. So in connection with the grips we have taken, we have removed the inheritance fee, which was also a demanding challenge for those with low incomes, we have removed the boat engine fee, and we have reduced the car charges by 1.9 billion. kr. Obviously, it means something to ordinary people with normal wages, as well as an average family having received NOK 10,000 in tax bills.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e920	‘According to the NRK on 17 April, the sale of noise and candy on networks from abroad is greatly increased following the sharp increase in charges adopted by the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People’s Party in the 2018 government budget. Norwegian buyers are forced to deliver a shower via mail in the store at a much lower price than the retail price. How large does the government estimate that total imports of noise and candy through online commerce will be in 2018, how large will this increase be from 2017, and what consequences will this have for public health, jobs and the income of the country?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e927	I thank you for an important question, but I'm a little surprised at the commitment. To the VG on 10 March 2016, the representative, Gülsvik’s co-founder Kjersti Toppe, ordered the use of the charging system to increase the price of shower and candy. She said at the time that «the sugar levy is so small that it has no particular effect». So she wanted full VAT. As a follow-up to the budgetary unity between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, the fees on chocolate and sugar products and non-alcoholic beverages were increased. The purpose of the fees is to provide the community with income, but they can also have a health effect if people eat and drink less of such goods. Today, most transport companies charge a fee to do the customs treatment for those who trade from abroad. Such fees are not charged for goods with a value of less than 350 kroner because the goods are free of charge. If an equivalent fee were to be imposed on goods with a value of less than NOK 350, more consumers would be charged a fee from the shipping company than today. The goods are also exempt from the obligation to declare the consignment. I am aware that the online trade in chocolate and sugar products and non-alcoholic beverages has increased, but because such goods are not registered, the department does not have figures on the volume. Still, we're investigating whether there can be sources that can shed light on the scale. In terms of the impact on workplaces, a broader picture is needed. It is the overall framework conditions that affect growth and jobs in this country. The government is concerned about investing and operating in Norway. We have therefore prioritised implementing growth-enhancing tax incentives that provide better framework conditions for the whole of business. So far, this government has reduced the total taxes and taxes by more than 24 billion. kr when all proposals are fully phased in. Nearly 8.8 billion. kr is the relief of the business tax. Furthermore, the government is now carrying out the efforts of time in the field of transport. Better roads make it easier and cheaper for our companies to transport their goods. This is particularly important for many enterprises in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e944	I ask the Council of State to respond specifically to the effects of the industry that we are talking about here. In Telemark, there are already people who have lost their job at Telemark Source Water. In Lørenskog, investments in the hundreds of millions class have been put on ice. Tradition-rich companies like Oskar Sylte and Roma in Lillestrøm fear that for their part this can end if nothing is done. This is worrying when the Council of State cannot give an answer to the extent to which imports from abroad have – when a previously used reason for contributing to public health, etc. MaxGodis said quite clearly to the NRK earlier this year: we are exploiting the legislation in force in Norway, it is perfectly conscious, we are sending between 15 tonnes and 20 tonnes of cheese and candy across the border every day. How sensible a policy is it to disappoint jobs out of the country – and a get sugar, shower and chocolate back?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e951	I think the centre party should be a little careful with the black paint of Norwegian jobs, Norwegian companies and Norwegian economy, which takes place from the centre party almost all the time. It's going well, the unemployment is going down to a very low level, the growth of the economy is on its way up. It's going well in all industries across the country, we're going to be happy for that. Some of the reasons are that this government has given priority to growth promotion, competitive framework conditions, good and sensible changes in tax levels, strong investment in infrastructure, research and development efforts – to mention something. Then I explained what the government can and cannot answer in terms of scale and effect. We're trying to map this as best we can, but we don't have access to it. Now it is the sugar tax that is close to the heart of the Senterpartie, but I would like to remind the representative that they themselves have proposed to increase the tobacco tax, the brandy fees, the beer fees and a large number of other things that would also affect the border trade, but this may not be the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e958	The fact that we have an active alcohol policy in Norway is wise in public health. But the point here is that one has made shock-carded increases in charges that have no proven public health impact. On the contrary, one sees that the imports of shower and candy from abroad have shot in the weather. It can't be better for people to eat candy and drink cheese imported from abroad than to go to their local store in Norway and shop there. In the case that you have no overview, it's just because you have the limit of $350. Had one set it to zero, had an overview of what was imported. So one could choose a model that one, for example, has in Finland, where one has a simple unbureaucratic way so that people can do it themselves without a huge fee. The question is: why is the Council not willing to look at such solutions to close a hole from abroad that is growing and going across Norwegian workplaces?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e965	The 350-kroner limit is primarily an instrument that has a consumer-friendly side. I think that the representative, Gielsvik, has to decide what perspective he is going to have on this, whether it's business policy or consumer policy. Sometimes they conflict with each other, but there is no doubt that the 350-kroner limit has a consumer perspective in the first place. In the field of alcohol policy, the Central Party is pushing public health ahead. But the representative Kjersti Toppe from the Center Party was concerned with public health as she thought it would make sense to do something about the sugar fees. It's possible the Center Party doesn't agree, but Kjersti Toppe from the Center Party means it. The Workers' Party, which the Centre likes to cooperate with, proposed full VAT on the same goods simply because they also thought this had a public health perspective. The same entrance moment had a Christian People's Party. So now the tax has increased, and the ambition is, of course, that it should contribute to better public health, as well as providing revenue to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e975	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘The vision of the Norwegian Bluesensemble to be an innovative classical music orchestra is noticed both internally and abroad. The strategy of the ensemble well harmonizes with the vision of ‘borderless Eastfold’ and the government’s Jeløya platform that public support should be more widely displayed, not just for production. The Norwegian Blue Ensemble has applied for increased support from the state to increase the number of concerts. Will the State Council contribute to the implementation of the ensemble’s strategy next year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e984	I am very pleased that the Jeleya platform has blown down all over Eastfold, and that the changes proposed have been made. For the government, it is important that the public experiences associated with this art production reach everyone in the country and that everyone should have the same high quality of the art they experience. Then it's also important that we have performers all over the country, because they are an important foundation for all the voluntary cultural life we have, and for all the training we have of young people who are currently attending our art and cultural schools. The Norwegian Blåseensemble is also one of the oldest orchestras and preserves a long tradition for Eastfold. But the Norwegian Blåseensemble is one of seven orchestras receiving grants from the Ministry of Culture's budget, and we in the Ministry of Culture are familiar with the orchestra's commitment to both real-time music and early music, and it has given them great recognition both nationally and internationally. The Norwegian Blue Ensemble is one of our beneficiaries, and they have sent a budget application for 2019, and it provides a comprehensive description of the 2019 activities, strategy and efforts for the ensemble. It is assumed that the Norwegian Bluesensemble adapts both operations and activity to its budget framework, but the most important thing for any orchestra must be to reach out with the art they create. It is not that I deal with budgetary requests from the Parliamentary Chair, but we have noticed that the Norwegian Blåseensemble has applied for fresh funds to strengthen the offer to reach more people in Eastfold, among others. by increasing the number of concerts. So that application will probably be evaluated in ordinary budgetary procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e999	I thank you for your answer. Although the Left has a long tradition of being too transparent, I would be surprised if the Council of State had said that she would accept the application here and now. But the Council of State said it's important to performers all over the country. Then I just want to add an argument that the Council of State should notice, and that is that Eastfold is among the states that score the worst of all the states in selected cultural indicators, despite the fact that we actually got a significant boost during the Cultural Promise in its time. So the blueprint is the only thing that has permanent employees, artists and professional administration. And, as the Minister of Culture well knows, it is also important to fertilise the undergrowth – so to speak – of the voluntary music and cultural life in Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1006	I fully agree with the representative. It's important to see that our elite, the professionals and those with higher education in this field, are always the ones that lay the foundation for all the little ones, who might even grow up. I think it's important to build on talents, to think about cultural life and volunteering in the same way that we do in sport – that we have to have a great undergrowth in order to be able to bring out the all, the best, but we also have to have the all, the very best, in order for them to appear in that undergrowth to be fun. That balance must be there, even within cultural life. Then it's about spreading cultural experiences across the country. For example, the Norwegian Blåseensemble is important for opera in Eastfold as an opera orchestra there, which allows people in Eastfold to also experience opera as a mere start. I think it's important in the future to bet on the professionals, so that they can make the undergrowth of this is important to build on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1013	I am pleased to note that the Minister of Culture has many good arguments for this orchestra to develop further. It's not just the oldest orchestra in the country; it's probably the only one of the old military orchestras that's been transformed and now is a spice layer through the Ministry of Culture, County and Halden Municipality as a host municipality. There was a lot of debate in its time – and still is – about the music in Defense. So this is a successful transformation from a pure defense music to an orchestra with a wider repertoire and impact field. So I hope for the best when it comes to the budgetary procedure, or the application, when it comes that far. And I wish the Minister of Culture good luck in the fight against the Ministry of Finance in getting a good enough framework to be able to grant this application as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1022	The finance minister had gone when the good report was made, but we're coming up with a cultural message for the fall, which is going to look at how we're going to manage to build up the professional levels across the country, and make sure that we're constantly developing a professional and good cultural life that can be involved in creating the undergrowth that so many others are participating in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1030	‘This year the current library strategy expires. Libraries have evolved as debate and literature houses, but at the same time the number of library units has decreased by 92 units from 2010 to 2016. Community mergers can result in more closures, there are major differences in quality, and many school libraries are neglected. Therefore, the Socialist Left has proposed a national lift for the libraries, with a new strategy, a stepping-up plan for funding earmarked for libraries, digital media purchasing budgets and private school library law. Will the Council of State support it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1037	First, I would like to thank the representative of the Supreme Court both for his commitment and for my opportunity here to be able to talk about libraries here at the Stockholm pulpit. The social mission of the libraries, and as our public libraries have, is only becoming more important and important in the society in which we live. The library is an important democratic institution, and I think it is a crucial piece for the whole of democracy and freedom of expression, for which we are all fighting. There is also an important meeting place and the knowledge arena in the community. I think the public libraries help to break down barriers, that they contribute to integration, and that they make sure that the knowledge that the community owns reaches as much as possible. For me, the fight for education in a society is essential, and these are important educational institutions that are about empowering citizens and giving citizens the opportunity to participate and influence society around them. Government rates at public libraries, and we'll look at how we're going to develop this strategy further, and how we're going to use the financial instruments in a way that makes us evolve in the field. Since 2013, the government has strengthened the development funds of the public libraries with a total of 32.1 million. kr, and in the autumn of 2015 the national library strategy was presented. It says that there should be a clear responsibility and a task to contribute to development and more forward-looking libraries. The 2016 public library statistics show that that policy actually works. The visit and activity of the public libraries is record-breaking. There's a lot of positive happening out there. I believe that the outcome of the National Library's strategy period has helped to upgrade the public libraries both as the argumentation arena and as a literature house, which we talked about here on the Stortinget when we changed the law and strengthened their competence in that area. The National Library Strategy for 2015-2018 was a targeted action to follow up the changes made in the Public Library Act in 2014. The strategy paved the way for the state to contribute to strengthening the library sector as an active intermediary of knowledge and cultural heritage and to facilitate the involvement of public libraries and independent meeting places for public dialogue and debate. We're going to come back to this when we're going to make a new cultural message. In 2019, the National Library has launched as the major book year. That's because it's been 500 years since the first Norwegian book was printed. Norway has also made the major choice to be a guest country at the Frankfurt Book Fair. What's happening in Germany next year is the biggest international investment for Norwegian culture we've ever had. Together, the Frankfurt Strategy and the National Library Strategy will be a major investment in books. We'll come back to how we're going to develop this further, in the cultural message.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1048	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. Today, the new number came from the Publishers’ Association and the Bookstores’ Association, which shows that reading among children and young people goes down. We know that reading skills are very important for children's development and participation in society otherwise. At the same time, the number of library units has decreased by 92 until 2016. In 1995, there were 55 mobile libraries in Norway with over 300,000 visitors per year. Today there are only 18 library buses and one library boat again. The People's Library Act states that there must be one library in each municipality. Now municipalities are to be merged, and there is therefore a risk of even more closures. Research clearly shows that the proximity to the nearest libraries is crucial for its good use or not. Is the Council of State worried that reading among young people is falling, and will she provide a good library offer throughout the country that ensures closeness to the nearest library?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1057	I think it's a little important to complain that there are a lot of people doing a good job in this area. It's a little bit about how to read statistics. I also read the statistics on reading today, which says that people buy more books. So it's not like Norway is a u-country in this field, we're actually pretty good at it. Suffering if some municipalities have not done their job, this is the way – you ask me – that there are a lot of municipalities that are very active in libraries. I've been a municipal politician in this city and I've seen how we've been and developed a new library concept that works very well. When I ask the National Library about the numbers, it's quite right, as the representative says, that the number of branches has fallen. However, the visit goes up, the number of dollars spent in libraries has not decreased, and the number of employees in Norwegian libraries has not decreased either. So there are a lot of numbers that evolve in the positive direction, and I think there are a lot of municipalities that are making new concepts that are very good. I'd rather cheer on them than tell them we're very bad at the library, because there's a lot of people doing a great job out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1064	I fully agree that a good job is being done around. That the libraries are doing a lot of good, I absolutely agree. But anyway, I'll keep asking, because it's a little bit about the potential, too, how to get even higher. Left-Cultural politician Finnanger Sandsmark has previously stated, in a matter on Left's own websites in 2013, together with the current State Council of Skei Grande, about the current government: «The government delivers nice words, but little action. Left wants a billion to the school and public libraries.’ And former cultural policy spokesperson for the Left, Sveinung Rotevatn, just before the elections last year about school library: ‘There are hardly any requirements for supply, quality, scope or anything. So what we're talking about is stronger national demands to have a good school library offer.' Now the Left is in government and has the Minister of Culture. SV has proposed both its own law on school library and escalation to a library billion. Will the Council of State make sure that it's not just the nice words, and that it's actually going to be action now that we get the opportunity here in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1081	The additions that I boasted that the government has done since 2013, have probably come largely in the budget negotiations with the Left, so it has become much better. We've said we're going to make a new law in this field, where we have the opportunity to expand and strengthen a new cultural law, and then we have to see if we have the right tools in the entire library field. Then I had hoped that the representative would follow up on this with young people and digitisation, because I was not able to answer that question. What we're doing, for example. with the National Library for the Book Shelf is to provide an important basis for accessibility, because I think the challenge for young people is that they're going to read books in another way than us old ones, they're going to relate to digital platforms. Being able to create good digital platforms that make books easily accessible, and the quality of streaming services, is a challenge for the entire book sector that we do not have all the answers to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1093	From the representative Siri Gassemyr Staalesen to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration: ‘Refers to Aftenposten 19 April of this year regarding the dramatic increase in the number of people left behind against their will abroad. What has the Council of State done to prevent this from happening, and what will he do to prevent this from happening in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1100	This question must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has departed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1108	From the representative of Torstein Tvedt Solberg to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration: ‘The government has decided to transfer the Parental Committee for the initial training, FUG, to Bø, but FUG reports that the department has not established a good plan for the relocation process and that this is now at the expense of operations and the work of the sample. Will the Council of State initiate a proper impact assessment of a move of FUG and, as a minimum, ensure that one avoids more than one movement process, including the assessment of a postponement of the move?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1115	This question must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has departed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1123	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Nordic Council has adopted 15 points in the field of transport which are important for growth and development in the Nordic countries. One of the points adopted is to restore a Nordic Transport Council. Such a Council of Ministers has existed in the past, but it was closed in 2005. In what way will the Council of State work to follow up the decision of the Nordic Council so that we can establish a Nordic Council of Ministers for Transport?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1130	I thank you for the question. I am concerned that we will have good cooperation between the Nordic countries, and I feel that we have it in the transport sector. I meet my colleagues quite often. In particular, the Finnish Minister has spent a lot of time with the last few years and found great understanding, but I also meet the Swedish, Danish and Icelandic relatively frequently, and we have planned to meet next time in June. The decision to which the representative refers was taken only a few weeks ago. So we haven't got that contact yet, and that's why I haven't had the chance to go through the decisions that have been made and make an assessment of them. The fact that you have had a Nordic Council of Ministers for Transport in the past gives us some experience that we can build on when it comes to what position we want to take. However, I would also like to remind you that the Nordic Council has previously made recommendations on similar matters, and it has been the theme as late as 2015 if you should get a Transport Council. Then it did not get the support of the Nordic ministers in total. What's important to weigh here are disadvantages and benefits. If we had poor contact between countries, a Nordic Council of Ministers would certainly have a role to play in ensuring that we got more contact points, that we could coordinate the work. On the other hand, if you already have good cooperation, a Council of Ministers could mean a lot of double work and costs that are no more useful. That's the assessment we have to make when we get the letter – look at what it's a wish, what it's already got of cooperative bodies for that that covers, and what possible unmet needs it is a Council of Ministers can cover, and whether it brings greater benefit than disadvantages. We haven't done that assessment yet, because we haven't been contacted, but we'll do it when we get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1143	Another forward-looking state council believes that I was now well repatriated. Although this has not formally come to the Council of State, he has got it via a question here now. I understand that you want to have good cooperation, and I also understand that you often meet transport managers in the different Nordic governments and spend a lot of time on it. I also hear that the Council of State says that this was up to – yes, what he said – a couple of–three years ago, where there was no support to get from the ministers, if I understood correctly. He also says that this could mean double work. What is completely new now is that a unanimous Nordic Council is asking for such a Council of Ministers to be set up. The Nordic Council has a good deal of arguments for this, including: that then the contact could float more easily, it would not be duplicated. As I said, the new thing now is that there is a unanimous Nordic Council, from right to left in a hall of a broken assembly of party colours, which now agrees that this is important. How will the Council of State ensure its follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1152	I just answered that. I said that first we have to get the enquiry, so we can also make our assessments of what is stated in that letter, and then conclude. It is not certain that getting a Council of Ministers means that the dialogue is going better. One may only have to run it in several channels. Then it's not useful. But if you can facilitate communication in a better way, which means that we save resources, we have an advantage. That's the assessment we have to make. I just want to remind you that there is already a bartender cooperation, there are Northern Dimensional Partnerships for Transport and Logistics, there is Baltic Sea cooperation, there is NB8, and there is aviation cooperation in many areas, so most of the transport areas have been cared for. We talk well with our neighbouring countries about both the possibility of building a railway between Finland and Kirkenes, in the field of equipping Ofotbanen, and in the case of Gothenburg-Stockholm. We have cooperation on autonomous driving on E8, and we have just reclassified the E45 to come all the way to Norway. We do a lot of things and solve a lot of challenges, so the question here has to be, what can we do further by getting more bureaucratic bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1159	I fully agree with the Council of State that we should not make bureaucratic arrangements. On the contrary, we're going to make arrangements that float well, and that will allow you to make progress in things. There's no disagreement about that. But 87 members of the Nordic Council of Ministers unanimously said that this was an important matter to put in place. [[Fire alarm goes]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1164	There's an alarm, and there's a fire alarm. We don't know what this means, but we should leave the hall. The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 12.08. ----- The cancelation took place at 5 p.m. 12:23.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1175	Then Stortinget will hold on to the negotiations. In this round of questions, the representative, Lauvås, can take the last question again – Lauvås, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1180	It became a small one – yes, what do we say when we stand here with the Transport Councils – derailment, but we get it all a little bit down from what was the starting point. The Council of State says he has good contact with the Councils of State in the other Nordic countries, etc. On this point, he points out that he has not formally received this decision from the Nordic Council. I understand all of that. But is the Council of State itself in a positive position to follow up the Nordic Council's decision to set up a Council of Ministers for Transport in the Nordic region? Will the Council itself believe that this is a good idea and argue well for it? That's the one. The second is, will the Council of State be able to come back to Stortinget on its own, or do we have to ask for these issues from the Nordic Council that you will eventually get on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1187	As they ask me if I want to inform Stortinget on a later occasion, I can confirm that. Once it has been requested, we will make sure that we do so without the Storting having to ask again. At the previous crossroads when one had made the proposal for a Nordic Council of Ministers for Transport, our common assessment among the ministers was that we thought it would not add anything that we do not already have today. That is why I want to look with interest at what the Nordic Council has decided on, and see if it gives more now than it did the previous time. As I said, I am concerned that we are going to have good cooperation between the Nordic countries. I am concerned that we should be able to work effectively together, solve problems both bilaterally and as a college when appropriate. At the same time, it's important that this gives us something, we also have to make sure that we have economic muscles to do something or coordinate something. That is why it is the device on the tasks and what it will do beyond what we already do today, which will be crucial for whether I would recommend or not recommend anything like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1199	It seems as if there was a thought transmission to the fire alarm system when the fire alarm went before this question of fire! I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation: ‘After the catastrophic fire in the Grenfell Tower high house in London last year, it is important to ensure that the prevention and preparedness for high-rise fire is good enough here too. It concerns construction materials, fire-proof escape routes, alarm and sprinkler systems, fire drills, supervision and control, how high the level of fire-fighting level can reach, etc. Does the Council of State consider that the requirements to prevent fire in high-rise buildings and to save the residents if the accident is out are good enough today, and is it relevant to a new review thereof?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1210	Thank you for an important question. The issue is complex and relates to both the building technical legislation, managed by the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation, and the fire and explosion protection legislation, administered by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Fire safety requirements for construction works are laid down in the Building Technical Regulation. In 2010, more stringent fire technical requirements were introduced, including: to ensure the safety of vulnerable groups such as the elderly and other disabled. Priority was given to measures to increase the available time of escape and rescue in the event of a fire. The main and most effective measure is the installation of an automatic fire-fighting system. Such an installation will most likely control or extinguish an early stage fire. This requirement is unique in the European context. The requirements are regularly reviewed and revised. Learning from invading fires is an important basis for the development of the legislation. After the fire in Grenfell Tower in 2017, the Directorate for Building Quality has reviewed the requirements of TEK17 for exterior lining on the outer wall. In the light of this review, it is proposed to strengthen the requirements for exterior lining on the outer walls of high construction works. The proposal was sent to the hearing on 13 April 2018. High construction works in Norway are currently a relatively small part of the volume being built. It is expected in the future that it will be built higher, mainly in the largest cities. The DiBK proposal will prevent the use of external linings which could lead to unacceptable fire performance and to the spread of fire. The requirements for fire safety in construction regulations must also be seen in the context of other instruments of the Planning and Building Act. I would like to point out in particular the requirement of mandatory independent control of fire safety. In addition, municipalities themselves have the right to impose independent control, e.g.: where the municipality wishes to pay particular attention to specific areas such as fire safety. Municipalities also have the right and obligation to supervise compliance with the legislation, both under building legislation and under fire legislation. Supervision is one of the main means of achieving the objective of safe and good construction. Finally, I would like to stress that there is no basis for saying that fires occur more frequently in high-rise buildings than elsewhere. The Norwegian construction code imposes strict fire safety requirements and the fire safety of Norwegian construction works is generally good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1233	I thank the Council of State for an informative and thorough response. That is a very important question, which I address because I want to make sure that the situation is reassuring, and therefore I ask openly. The existing buildings, such as: The high-rise buildings in Groruddalen, Oslo, are largely built in the 1960s and early 1970s. Since then, the law has been amended several times — in 1987, 1997 and 2010 — and regulatory changes have been made at the same time. As I understand the law, the basic requirements are set so that they are in line with the requirements laid down in the law when the buildings were built. The question is: have other measures been put in place to monitor new regulations, and are the old high-rises updated so that they are safe enough in the event of fire, when they are built back so long, and there was another law in force?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1242	I guess the answer to that is yes and no. In general, legislation does not have retroactive effect, but it also introduces rules that apply to all buildings in Norway, for example: the requirement for fire extinguisher, the requirement for means of escape – this type of thing. It is set for all types of buildings, regardless of when they are listed. My impression is that the municipalities have a good overview. They supervise their buildings, and they also carry out risk analyses, vulnerability analyses, on the situation in their municipalities. Then we can never guarantee, but my impression is that we have a code that is very strict – it should just be lacking – and that Norway is far ahead. But we have to learn all the time. It is also true that we have not received the final review report from London. It will come, and there we can also discover things that we should be thinking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1249	I thank you for a dedicated response in this round as well. The fire trucks in e.g. Oslo reaches 32 meters in height, i.e. approx. Six stories, but many of these buildings are much higher. This is also a question of the development of technology internationally when it comes to rescuing people – we always have to be prepared for people to be rescued – and whether the requirements for rescue equipment should be followed, what kind of new technology exists internationally, where there are higher buildings than in Oslo and Norway. How do you ensure that we are at this altitude in Norway when it comes to having lifesaving equipment that is in line with the best modern, international solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1256	Here I have to be a little careful to answer, because fire and preparedness lie with the Minister of Justice, and because my knowledge is necessarily limited. But in general, I would say that we are in a situation where we see urbanisation in Norway. There must be a fortification – we must build closer, and we must build higher – and it is clear that we must keep up with it. My impression is that we're following the international arena related to the rules we're going to have. We need materials that are capable of saving everyone. As I said, there are no more fires in houses than in other houses, but one has other challenges. In Norway, we also have — as opposed to, for example, United Kingdom — Two escape routes are required when a building is above four floors. We have made some changes, and that may certainly be the basis for further action, but this question will be answered better by the Minister of Justice than I am.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1263	Then we go to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1272	This question, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Industry on behalf of the Minister of Defence, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1277	‘In the defence’s long-term plan, the government inter alia wrote that ‘[...] the maritime patrol aircraft will not enter under the protection of the air protection at Evenes. This means that these resources will have to deploy to another base at a given level of threat’. In KS1, it reads equally fully: ‘We understand that it is not planned to operate MPA from Evenes during high intensity operations.’ Shall they not operate on or off the maritime surveillance flights from Evens during high intensity operations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1284	There have recently been many claims about the closure of Andeya and the establishment of Evenes as an exclusive base. Several of these are based on misunderstandings. The government assumes that our maritime patrol aircraft will be able to operate from Evenes at all stages of a conflict. Aeroplanes are a strategic resource and important for good maritime situational understanding. The planes are vulnerable when on the ground. With Evenes we get a base protected with air protection, which increases the probability that the planes are available for operations also in crisis and high intensity operations. There will be an operational assessment of the duration of operations from Evens. Such an operational assessment will have to be made regardless of the base on which the aeroplanes are operated. The representative refers to the external quality assurance of the concept selection investigation for the Evenes Air Station. The draft selection investigation does not explicitly describe the protection of maritime patrol aeroplanes. The external quality insurer has interpreted this as not intending to operate maritime patrol aircraft from Evenes in a high-intensity dispute. Here, external quality assurance has interpreted the concept selection inquiry for the snowy side. As mentioned above, it is desirable to operate aeroplanes for as long as it is considered operationally appropriate, including in crisis and high-intensity situations. This has been taken into account in the concept selection investigation and in the recommended concept. In the context of the question, the representative also quotes the long-term plan, but the text is taken from the description of the consequences of a shared solution with maritime patrol aircraft on Andøya and fighter aircraft on Evenes. The quotation is therefore related to a solution that was not selected. Clearly, having air protection is an advantage. Air protection at Evenes increases the likelihood that maritime patrol aircraft can operate from this base in crisis and high intensity operations. Without the protection of air protection, which led to the option of maritime patrol aircraft on Andøya, these aeroplanes will have to be moved to another base at a given threat level. The decision to shut down Andøya Air Station was a demanding decision. The government has said that from day one. At the same time, we have made a necessary priority based on extensive and thorough investigations. The draft selection inquiry and the external quality assurance confirm important assumptions underlying the government’s recommendation and the Storting decision to establish the new P-8 maritime patrol aircraft on Evenes. Now we have to focus on expanding Evens, so that we get ready for operations in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1301	I thank you for your answer. On the same day that the decision to lay down the Andeya base was taken, both party leader Jonas Gahr Large and defence-political spokeswoman in the Workers' Party stated that there was the need and costs associated with air protection on Andeya that got the party to agree to the proposal of the Government of the MPA base on Andenes. ‘We have carefully addressed the arguments and believe that the most professional solution is the collection of forces at Evenes. To me it became absolutely essential that a modern monitoring base for the future need air protection," said Huitfeldt. Jonas Gahr Støre said that they had turned on all the math and said, ‘We have come to follow defence professional recommendations on a base of air protection.’ From the Workers' Party, the magazine Vesterålen informs us that Sitata from Huitfeldt, from 2016, is still on the table today. Then the question is again: Shouldn't the surveillance plane be on the base in a war situation, and is there any difference between Andøya and Evenes in that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1318	Now, of course, I can't answer for the Workers' Party's assessments, but I understand that the representative is asking the same question that I answered in the main question, namely that we are assuming that the maritime patrol planes are going to be able to operate from Evenes at all stages of a conflict. As I also explained in the answer to the main question, some of these questions lie in a misunderstanding, by seeing different solutions and mixing them together. I think I have to say that the follow-up question has been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1325	It's not that. It's not answered. State Council Hille-Jensen rejects in an interview from the previous week that the maritime surveillance plane was used as a decisive argument to choose Evenes as a new base, while both the leader and defence spokeswoman in the Labour Party, who went into conciliation with the government about this, says that there was a decisive argument. That's interesting, because the Storting these days deals with a bill on this matter. In order not to get hurt in order to ask the same question, but by entering from a slightly different angle, I have to ask, is it not such that flights also have to be moved from Evenes in a given threat situation that the Council of State says a must from Andeya? Isn't that how one must do it? People from the professional community say it's right, that it's also not relevant to operate it from Evenes in a war situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1332	The question is whether they need to be moved in a given situation. There is a significant difference between a particular war situation and a war situation. It is clear that in a given situation it is difficult to exclude many possibilities, but the question from the representative, namely whether they need to be moved in a war situation, I perceive that was addressed in the main response. Then the representative has excused me as a deputy for the Minister of Defence, who will certainly be able to answer this in more detail when he is back in the Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1339	Then we go to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1347	This question, from Willfred Nordlund to the Minister of Finance, has been transferred to the Minister of Defence as the appropriate representative. The question will be answered by the Minister of Industry on behalf of the Minister of Defence, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1352	It is good that the Minister of Industry has at least time to come to answer questions about defence policy. The question is: ‘Based on the Ministry of Finance’s best estimate and forecasts from, inter alia, the SSB: From 2019 onwards, the level of the defence budget must be 2 pst. by GDP at the latest in the State budget of 2024, given that the escalation plan should be linear with the uncertainty factor that the Ministry of Finance normally assumes?’ [[as calculated by NATO]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1361	I interpret the questions of the representative Nordlund as the amount of annual appropriations needed for the defence expenditure of 2024 to be 2 pst. of gross domestic product. Calculation of the share of GDP in defence expenditure in 2024 depends on the forecast of economic development for several years to come. Such a forecast is, and I would like to stress, the book with very great uncertainty, and changes in the estimate of GDP will therefore give a large impact on the level of the estimated amounts. Taking as a starting point the defence appropriations from the 2018 national budget and the SSB's current forecasts of GDP, defence appropriations must increase by about 4.2 billion. EUR 2018 from 2019 onwards for the expenditure to be 2 pst. of GDP in 2024. This implies an overall increase of approximately 25.4 billion. 2018-kroner. In comparison, the increase was estimated at 23.4 billion. kr in 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1370	I thank you for your answer. It is good that the department can respond to the forecasts. Then the follow-up questions are really: is it possible to expect that the government, given the promises that have been made both by the Prime Minister, by the Minister of Defence and to the extent that other representatives of the government parties, want to maintain the goal of reaching 2 pst. – by 2024, based on the preliminary estimates? And can we see traces of it already when the revised state budget is presented, on May 15th?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1377	We stand on – both from the government side and from the government parties – that we should stick to the commitments we have been given, to seek to escalate the defence budgets against 2 pst. GDP. So there's a bunch of uncertainties associated with it. Nor is it the type of commitment that the representative seems to be making. So ask the representative: can we expect to see traces of this in the budgets that are coming? The answer to that is yes, because it is under this government that the change of pace in the defense has come. The problem in defence – high ambitions, poorly funded structure and thus a gap between reality and what politicians have been willing to grant – did arise at the moment when the Right-Fremskrit Party government was elected in 2013. Rather the contrary, it had been there for many years. The change in the pace of defence policy came with the long-term plan, which is a binding plan of escalation, and – I can say on behalf of us others in the government, who run other Council posts, which also need funds – which eat significantly from the action space that the government has to use for new things.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1384	I have no doubt that there are other departments and other areas that eat significantly from the space of action that is concerned with ensuring our common security, namely that we should have a national preparedness and a proper defence. It is interesting to hear that the Council of State now promises to follow this up. The calculations that have been made, and which the Minister of Defense has given in response to the Storting, show that with the escalation that is now being taken into account, there is not at all close to being able to achieve about the 2 pst. goal that I registered that the Council of State did not seem to be the goal it is said to be, namely, an objective committed to the NATO members to work towards. The question is: is it to interpret the Council of States so that it is intended to spend more money on the table than is in the long-term plan, in order to achieve the goal that this House and the Government have committed themselves to seeking – in order to use the words of the Council of State – to achieve?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1393	Firstly, I say exactly the same thing as both the Minister of Defence, the former Minister of Defence, the Prime Minister and the other representatives of the Government say, and which is linked to what NATO countries agreed on in Wales. Let's not be confused about that. The long-term plan is our stepping-up plan. And I have to say, I think it is quite striking that, after having been in power and influence over defence policy for many years, without having done anything about it, without a necessary change of pace, without having been able to close the gap between reality and ambition and actual funding, one criticises a shift from this government in defence policy – a long-term plan that is a gigantic promise – in order not to be sufficient. It is under this government that the change in the pace of defence policy has taken place, and the long-term plan underlies it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1400	We're now going to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1408	This question, from the representative Seher Aydar to the Minister for Economic Affairs, will be taken up by the representative Bjørna Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1413	‘In Alumorte there have been illegal emissions now and in the past. The management rejected the illegal emissions for a long time before they were finally granted. Local trustees have stated that they have been trying to address environmental production conditions for several years. The State requires, inter alia, that there be transparency relating to the activities of its companies and that companies should discharge their social responsibility. What has the Government of Solberg done to ensure that environmental considerations are taken into account in state-owned enterprises in the local area, to ensure transparency, and to ensure that trustees are heard?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1420	In the case of the Hydro-Alunorte case, in the very near future, I am going to ask the Stortinge to explain to the very state's follow-up to the specific case. Now I see the question that is also a little bit wider or larger than that: what has the state done and done to the companies where the state owns? Then I'll say the following: In the announcement of ownership, the government has expressed clear expectations of the companies in the areas of climate and environment, human rights, employee rights and anti-corruption and transparency of money flows. These expectations are apparent from the ownership announcement and are clearly communicated to the companies and to the directors of the companies. This means that the government has clear expectations that government-owned companies not only work systematically with their social responsibility but are also leading in their fields. Among other things, it is expected that companies will be at the forefront of their work on climate and environment in their industry. Furthermore, it is expected that companies have dialogues with significant stakeholders, where relevant, to identify who is affected by the activity and to reduce risk. Trustees and other employees of the company are to be regarded as significant stakeholders with which companies are expected to have regular dialogue. It is also expected that companies will be open about their main challenges. According to the established division of roles between the board of directors and owners of the company, the board of directors and the company are responsible for having the necessary systems and measures in place to reduce risks and manage those affected by the activities. This division of roles is based on the share laws and principles of good ownership and corporate governance, to which the Storting has joined. The Ministry follows up expectations in the area of social responsibility in regular dialogue with the companies. There are quarterly meetings, there are annual meetings on social responsibility, and there are meetings with the board if necessary. The Ministry follows up the companies based on assessments of what is essential for the individual company. Climate and environmental issues as well as stakeholder dialogue, including dialogue with trustees, are issues addressed with companies. Social responsibility assessments are also carried out in the context of annual assessments of the work of the boards. As I said at the outset, in a very short time, I am going to ask to come back to Stortinget with a statement about the Hydro-Alunorte case in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1441	The presentation is nice, but it's a little bit urgent. Production at Alumorte has been halved for almost two months. At the same time, the number of accidents at work at the refinery has doubled. The local surveillance in Brazil is connected and now the trade union fears that fatal accidents will occur when the factory is operated for half a machine. They have sent employees on a forced vacation, and they fear major redundancies if the operation does not start again. In addition, Alumorte is important for Norwegian jobs, since the raw material for aluminium production at the Hydro factory in Norway comes from just Alumorte, which is now operated for half the machine in the second month. What does the Council of State do to Hydro to ensure that there are no more accidents at Alumorte, so that the scandal does not hit local employees in Brazil, nor does it affect aluminium production here in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1448	What we're doing to Hydro, I've partially responded in general terms in my first answer. As I said, I will come back to the Storting with a statement about it, if the Storing wants it. Hydro is a partially state-owned company, but it is also a partially private company. These are factory areas in Brazil. The introduction to the representative Moxnes is not really a question of what ownership management in the Ministry of Economic Affairs is doing, but what the rest of the state is doing. What are we doing to assist a Norwegian company in Brazil with all the aspects that are? Of course, the Norwegian Embassy in Brazil usually works with the company to get information, and also works in the usual diplomatic way against the Brazilian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1453	We've seen the corruption cases in Yara, the Telenor and Vimpelcom scandals, Statoil and the oil sands, DNB and Panama Papers, so now Hydro's crisis in Brazil. All are large companies where the State has a large holding and which violate the principles of good ownership of the State, whether in the area of environmental damage, bribery of officials and suppliers or hiding money in tax havens. This happens over and over again with state-owned Norwegian companies. If any company in the world should be able to take social responsibility and not just act after the scandal is a fact, as we've seen now with Hydro, it should be these companies, where the state is a big owner. What is the Council of State's explanation that these companies are entangled in scandals over and over again?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1458	It sounds as if the representative of the Red Party, who is for state ownership, believes that these companies are state owned in themselves, which is also very much – what to say – sensitive to the representative’s questions. It's all about completely different types of things. The expectations of government and big business and Norway for companies with state ownership are clear and clear. But I also have to say on a general basis that when the representative of Moxnes almost presents it as if Norwegian companies operating abroad are not interested in taking social responsibility, I believe it is a fundamental error. Not only that, someone who works with this to daily, who works in these companies, who is proud of the companies they work in, will perhaps even perceive it as on the border of insulting. We'll take care of the individual things that are coming. We enjoy our state ownership in line with the guidelines of the Stortinget. I'm going to explain to Alumorte, but that kind of description in general I can't stand back.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1466	‘The Government is determined to implement the change which will most likely lead to the landing of 700 Norwegian seafarers in Color Line. The working party believes that the change is both unnecessary and unfair. We also believe that the change can create a race towards the bottom of the Nordic region – a competition based on lower pay and working conditions. Why will the Council of State carry out a research analysis on this issue after a few years when it is too late to stop it, rather than an investigation in advance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1473	Let me just first remind you that the framework conditions for the Norwegian maritime industry and for Norwegian seafarers have been strongly strengthened by this bulk of population. It also includes the arrangements for what was called the ‘net salary’ but now called the ‘sponsoring scheme for employment of seafarers’, which has been greatly increased. Now let's use 2 billion. kr on this, because Norwegian seafarers are important. Another thing worth pointing out is that the Norwegian system works so that the principal investigator is Norwegian departments. The Stortinget also has the government apparatus – or departments – as its investigators. That's why the committees ask questions, that's why you have written questions, and that's why you have questions like this. An equivalence sign cannot be set between an external investigation and an investigation at all. It's important to clarify. The purpose of making the changes work for a few years before we analyse the ferry market, is to find out whether such consequences have occurred, or whether there has been a development that we have not foreseen. At the bottom of this is – as I have also blackened the Storting in connection with the ongoing matter in the nutrition committee – that the department's assessment and analysis is that this will not have any infectious effects or have significant consequences, precisely because of the scheme's arrangements. In the analysis, which I believe it would be wise to do in retrospect, a comparison can be made between the framework conditions for foreign ferries in the Nordic countries and, where appropriate, other countries in the EEA region. What is difficult to carry out an external analysis in advance is that the issue here is also about policy-making or whether it will contribute to policy changes. Our clear assessment, based on the professional analyses in the department, is that there is no reason to believe it. But, of course, such analyses will always be associated with some uncertainty. It is also worth mentioning that the regulatory change that has been notified has just changed as a result of the consultation recordings that came into our original proposal. The framework of the proposal now, mainly the number of nautical miles involved, is important precisely in order not to create such a pressure on the framework conditions in our neighbouring countries. Finally, I would also like to remind you that the rationale for this is that a fundamental assessment of the support schemes for seafarers has been carried out. All the strengths that have come — on the maritime side, for seafarers and for research — have been implemented. But then it was assessed that this was a necessary change to prevent 2 500 jobs in Norway from being jeopardized.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1488	I thank you for your answer. First of all, I want to agree with the changed framework conditions that have already been implemented. They have received the full and full support of the Workers' Party and have been important. They are also the basis for the situation to be different now than at the time when a assessed and recommended change for reflagging from NOR, Norwegian Ordinary Skip Register, to NIS, Norwegian International Skip Register. But I do not feel that there is any time pressure in this case. The Maritime Organisations, together with LO, have sent a letter to the Committee dated 24 April, writing that the Color Line case does not have an economic impact for 2018. They write that the reason for this is that the process associated with this possible change is very extensive and will take a long time. Then my question becomes: does the Council of State agree that it will take time to implement these changes according to the contractual agency that is there, or that is not there, and that needs to be put in place, and so do not have an impact for 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1497	As I said, this is a matter that has been notified by the government since 2014–2015. In other words, it is a matter that has been discussed for a long time and carefully assessed in several rounds, also in a new round now, after I became the Council of State for this field. It is also worth mentioning that I believe it is natural – out of respect for the Storting, of course – that while Stortinget deals with a matter about this, no regulation is put in place, just so it is clear. We are awaiting treatment in Stortinget. The answer to the question from the representative of Aasland is: Yes, such changes take time, but at the moment of a regulatory change, the further process is up to the parties – the shipping company and Norwegian labour regulations. It is good to stress that there are no leads or calls from the government on which way to go. We're making the overall framework conditions, but this is going to take time. There are budgetary implications of this, but when they enter, of course, the process of the shipping company, if it becomes such a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1507	The government has budgeted a saving of 33 million. NOK as a result of the conversion that we are now discussing. In the light of what the Council of State is now responding to, that this will necessarily take time, and based on what the maritime organisations specify on the negotiation processes related to this matter, and since there is really no regulatory change until later on, the likelihood that something will happen in 2018 is relatively small. In reality, this means that the budgetary assumptions underlying 2018 are no longer real. Does the Council share these views?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1520	The revised national budget will not come that long, and then you will see what adjustments you make. But Aasland's representative is saying something important, namely about realistic budgeting. That's what this is all about. This is about budgets reflecting, in some cases, what is thought to be most likely to happen or not happen. This is a very general point. If the premises change, the principle of realistic budgeting implies that the budgets also change. But this will be presented to the Stortinget when the revised national budget does not come that long.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1528	‘The protection of children has been strongly criticised by the National Audit Office for its management of the emergency situation of children and young people. Buffetat does not have enough capacity to place children in the vicinity. For the municipal child protection service, follow-up by the child becomes more difficult. Bufdir has set targets for all emergency placements to take place in state intervention. However, all regions have to make private purchases in order to meet the obligation to provide assistance. What will the Council of State do to ensure that all children have defensive emergency positions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1535	I want to start by thanking the representative Toppe for asking an important question in a very complex field. These are difficult issues, and I want to say that I look very seriously at what the Riksrevision has revealed. Acutes are very often demanding for those involved, and especially for the children. That's why, to the extent possible, we want to avoid emergency placements. Unfortunately, in some cases it is not possible. Then you have to go in. However, we know that this is very stressful for children, and it is therefore important that we start early with prevention measures and try to do what we can to avoid often dramatic emergency situations. I'll come back to what we're doing now to improve the situation. I would first like to briefly outline the characteristics of the emergency area, which makes it particularly demanding to provide a customised offer for all children throughout the country. Acutes have a relatively small volume. The offer is specialised. Many municipalities expect an offer near the child's home, that the offer should be of high quality and competence, and that this should be available at very short notice, and then we talk about hours. At the bottom is also the ongoing challenge of recruiting enough foster homes. There are therefore few simple solutions to ensure the capacity of the offer requested by municipalities, at least within a sound financial framework. But I am now following up on those parts of the emergency facility where the capacity challenges have been identified. It's important for me to stress. We are constantly working on recruiting several shelters and foster homes, and Bufetat has had a strong growth in the number of shelters in recent years. Unfortunately, some children become too long in the emergency response. I want these children to have a sustainable care offer. It is especially important for the child to reach the foster parents he is going to live with over time, and it will also release the capacity of the emergency facility. The main measure is to contribute to the highest quality of municipal prevention work. The reform of child protection and the ongoing commitment of the government to the development of the competences of municipal child protection will greatly contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1552	Thanks for the answer. Bufdir has set a target for all emergency positions to be made in state action. However, all regions today have to make private purchases in order to meet the obligation to provide assistance. At the end of the second tertiary 2016, as many as one out of three out of hospitalized children bid in private institutions and privately recruited foster homes. The National Audit Office’s report states that because there are no framework agreements for the purchase of emergency measures, private purchases are carried out as individual measures and that single purchases constitute a high risk with regard to defence. So my question to the Council of State is what the government is doing to ensure that all emergency positions take place state-wide and not private.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1561	We're busy, as I said, giving a better and more equivalent offer to all children who experience emergency positioning. This work must receive a great deal of attention in the future. With regard to the private measures, I am concerned that the new procedures and agreements for the purchase of emergency measures in foster homes introduced in 2017 related to private suppliers are now working, and that we will see the results. The purpose of the new procedures put in place by the government is to ensure adequate choice of measures and procurement processes for emergency placements in foster homes related to private measures. As I also said, it is a great challenge to ensure enough capacity across the country of high professional quality, but we are well in the process of looking at the comments made by the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1572	It is, of course, an overriding principle in the Child Protection Act that a person should give decisive attention to the best interests of the child. The Central Party has proposed a closeness reform in child protection, and we know that in 2015, there were nearly 500 children who had to move to an institution in a part of the country other than where one had grown up, and of the children who had to move, one out of five children had to move far. The reason why some children have to move very far is simply the demand that the government, through its agencies, has made for high productivity and capacity utilisation of institutions – that it is actually more important than placing children in the vicinity of its home. Will the Council of State give another signal: that the best of the child is actually more important than the capacity utilisation of institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1581	There is one very important guiding principle that trumps everything else in child protection, and that is to work out the best of the child. Child protection is concerned, as far as possible, with the provision of measures for the child in the child’s network, including in the field of geography. You are now looking more closely for foster families among family or friends and also associated with the place where the child lives. Then I have to say that the government is concerned that we have a variety of measures, both private, non-profit and state, across the country. What diversity makes it possible for us to tailor an offer adapted to the individual child. What I'm a little concerned about now is the signals that the Central Party has made, among other things. in the Chamber here yesterday, that you want to actively counter commercial private activities. It helps to reduce diversity and alternatives in order to provide a range of services tailored to the individual child.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1591	«The daily newspaper of 17 April shows that the government does not have an overview of the number of persons receiving cash support. In the government budget for 2018, the government proposed to grant over 1.7 billion. the amount of the plan. Is it true that the government does not see the need neither to know for itself nor to inform big business and municipalities about who and how many people are applying for and receiving cash support?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1598	No, that's not right. Therefore, I look forward to Nav publishing new cash support statistics in a few days' time. The establishment has announced that they intend to present on 24 May this year, and then four times a year as usual. Nav has published cash support statistics several times a year over many years. The reason why this publication has now stopped is that Nav is committed to improving and streamlining the process — to the satisfaction of all their users. This is why specialisation of the procedure has been carried out which has led to longer processing times and some statistical challenges during a transitional period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1603	That's good news. The important thing about cash support is that it works the way it should. We have recorded that the government has focused on integration. There is a very high need for cash support recipients. Mother does not get to work, the children do not learn Norwegian, and the freedom of choice is reduced for these children and for women. Does it make sense to the Council of State that as much money as this scheme has cost is spent on a measure that is proven not to result in integration or increased freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1610	That the Workers' Party can prove that the cash support does not lead to increased freedom of choice, I have never heard before. That's pretty unknown to me. Those I talk to, who are recipients of cash support, use it precisely on the basis of the argument that it is important for the family to be allowed to decide how the care for the child in its first year of life should be – that it is very important. All families are different, and all children are different. That the cash support does not contribute to the freedom of choice must be something completely new The Workers' Party has come up with. The fact that cash support can have an anti-integration effect is the government's concern to take account of by strengthening the introduction course. We want more women in work, and we want to strengthen Norwegian education. It's also an important part of the care package.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1617	Oslo City Council will concreteise the integration process in order to get more women to work and improve language training, among other things. for children receiving cash support. So Oslo City Council is setting up for these kids, but the government doesn't. Does the Minister think it is good for local politicians to use the Community's resources in a smarter way that integrates and teaches children language in the past, in line with the government's own integration programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1622	The government is very concerned about how we should improve integration. That is why we are also about to put forward an integration strategy. We are busy getting more immigrant parents into work quickly. That is why we are concerned that the introduction programme works, that we have Norwegian training for everyone, and that we are looking at concrete measures to get more immigrant mothers into work in particular. We also do a lot to integrate these families. The children get reduced price in kindergarten, and we have trial projects with reduced prices for SFO. But it's important for this government that we also recognize that families are different and that children are different. That the possibility of making decisions for the benefit of their children remains with their parents is an important principle for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1630	«Agricultural incomes have fallen. The main reason for this is increased fees. Of the total loss of income, 60 are pst. as a result of increased costs of diesel and energy. The CO 2 tax on diesel has increased by 45 pst. in two years. In agriculture, it was expected that the fees for the industry would decrease. Will the Council of State ensure a reduction in fees to strengthen Norwegian food production?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1640	The agricultural budget item provides a common basis for the agricultural negotiations on which the parties base. There has just enough recorded a decrease in the total annual income per farm from 2016 to 2017 of about 1,5 pst. They predict with a further weakening of about 2 pst. from 2017 to 2018. However, if you look at the last four years together, it is wrong to see a large decline in agricultural incomes. It has been a better income development for agriculture than for other groups in society. The reason for the fall in the last two years is not an increase in fees at all, as the representative Bjørke claims in his question. He might have found out for himself if he used more sources for the question than the newspaper Nation. As part of the green tax shift, the Stortinge decided to increase the CO 2 tax on mineral oil by 28 øre per litre in 2017 and 13 øre per litre in 2018. In the course of the two years, the levy on diesel has increased by about 41 øre per litre. Based on the total consumption of diesel in agriculture, it represents a cumulative increase of about 50 million. kr. The budget heading has estimated a total increase in the cost of diesel in agriculture from 2016 to 2018 at approximately 250 million. kr. The figure for 2018 is a prognosis. The fee increase is thus one-fifth of the cost increase for diesel and is by no means the main cause, as the representative suggested. The budget item has estimated a total cost increase of over 1.5 billion. kr in agriculture in the period 2016-2018. This has been done well for even before. In addition to the fact that agriculture has received an additional levy of about 50 million. kr on its fuel, one has been compensated with approximately 55 million. kr. This means that one does not suffer from the additional charge, as opposed to all other professional groups who have been able to pay this bill themselves. Farmers are self-employed, and agricultural policy sets the framework within which they adapt. Increases in prices and increases in yields may give rise to higher incomes in industry, but we now see that in more areas there has been higher output than is required. It gives lower prices and reduced income. This overproduction is a far more important reason why the calculated income in agriculture has fallen, and the turbulent representative should bear far more than an increase in a charge that has already been compensated. How it is possible to draw such a conclusion from the representative, Bjørke, in his question, is completely unwise for me to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1662	It certainly has something to do with the will to understand. There is no doubt that increasing fees and more expensive fuel means that farmers who are trying to bet on own-produced feed get a higher cost and find it more difficult to compete than those who are trying to import and like to bet on imported feed instead. So an important reason to be able to strengthen what is Norwegian produced is actually to use the fee. When the Council of State says that there is overproduction that is the problem, I will claim that there is a directed development from this government, which has removed all ceilings on transfers and flattened many structural instruments in agriculture. There is a deliberate act by the government from 2014 until today that there has been overproduction, while removing the possibility for farmers to pursue good market regulation measures. Therefore, a tax haven could have helped the farmers in this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1671	I think I'll start by referring to what the representative initially asks about: «Agricultural incomes have fallen. The main reason for this is increased fees.’ There is the introduction to the question. It is now rejected, and it can be documented. So it's not a lack of willingness to understand, but the claim of the representative is actually wrong. Furthermore, the representative claims that we have prevented agriculture from regulating the market. Then I would like to know what kind of change has come when it concerns the market arrangements for milk and meat – which are the productions where there is surplus – that are made by this government. In case the representative Bjørke is in doubt, the answer is: no instrument has fallen away from agriculture in this area. So it would have been an advantage if Bjørke's representative would stick to what's verifiablely true, instead of his own.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1683	I notice that the Council of State will not mention the flare-up of subsidies and structural instruments, which are the most important reason for overproduction. I understand that. At the same time, there is no doubt that it has been streamlined into the possibility of exporting to market regulation measures, so that it is much worse for market regulators to be able to regulate the market today. It's one of the main challenges, but I'm going to say that there's a structural tool that's the heaviest piece that makes us overproduction on a lot of productions today. It started with changes in the concession limits for chicken. One has removed all the maximum residue limits, which means that many farmers have increased production more than is balanced on imported feed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1688	This is great to experience. When I started to answer the first question, the challenge for agriculture was that the fees had gone up. When I checked out that this was not the case, the challenge was that we changed the market regimes. Now it's not the answer either; now it's the flare of applause. This shows you are out of range to find no answer for it. The main objective of the Storting has been to increase food production. When one has the primary goal of increasing food production, it means that more is being stimulated. That's the only way to increase food production. It has resulted that food production is now actually higher than ever, and there is a demanding market situation. In just seven minutes we have now received three different answers to what is supposed to be the main cause of the loss of income, but I thought the Center Party should read the Budgetary Name numbers instead of trying to figure out its own theories.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1700	‘The social mission of agriculture is food security. The majority of the majority of the population, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, calculate this as the maritime supply of agricultural food corrected for the import of feed that is historical practice. While it's about 40 pst. in Norway, Switzerland, with its cultural landscape, has a degree of maritime supply of about 50 pst. If Norway is to look like Switzerland, it requires increased plant production. We have to graze on larger areas, have bigger full-grown areas, and the fertility of the soil needs to be improved. How will the government facilitate such development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1707	I share the opinion of the representative Lundtigen that one of the most important social tasks in agriculture is to contribute to food security. So I think we're all going to be honest that Norway will hardly look like Switzerland, regardless of political stimulus, for the following reasons: Switzerland is a small country – about the size of Tribute layers in the area, they're eight million inhabitants, they're in a completely different climate zone, and they live far closer on the market than Norwegian agriculture does. But it is quite right that they have relatively good use of their land resources in Switzerland. However, Norway, with our climate zones, lower population, greater distance from the market and not least a much larger land area, is not likely to be able to achieve the same. Nevertheless, it is important to exploit our grass resources. Therefore, before I go into what we're going to do in the coming years, I want to say a little bit about what we've done. We have e.g. strengthened the basis for outings. It helps to keep the cultural landscape open, and it stimulates grass-based livestock producers to exploit the field for food production, and also reduces the need for other feed sources. The twist from the inland Beetle to the outlanding Beetle Shot was the Center Party's opposite. The second thing we have done is to strengthen the channelling policy to maintain the grain area and thus increase plant production, which is a significant premise on the issue of the representative from Lundtigen. But if we're going to increase the grain area, it's going to have to be less profitable on the margin to convert to grass. Thus, there is an increased division of labour between cereals and roughage between the parts of the country that have climatic conditions for it. It was the Center Party against it. The third thing we've done is that if you're going to use the Norwegian grass resources, it's going to have to be more favourable at the margin to use roughage instead of forage. In many regions, the competitiveness of roughage is quite good. In the West, however, there is evidence that the use of power feed can be cheaper at the margin. That's why we're here, for example. in the last year's agricultural operation, an increase in the feed price was taken into account. It was the Center Party against it. In the coming years, we will continue with the grips that work, to strengthen the production base. I don't think I and the representative Lundteg are so very disagreeable about the story here, but it would have been an advantage if the representative Lundteg had passed through his own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1720	What's interesting now is that the Council of State behind all the words says that he agrees with the description of reality I'm giving. So that means the content of the societal mission. It is food safety, food safety is closely linked to plant production, and that we have great opportunities to increase plant production in Norway, and thus have a cultural landscape that is inviting in a completely different way from what we get today, because the area in use goes down every single year. It's a fact. Then is my further question: will the Council of State take the initiative to follow the historically long line of investing in land, i.e. quarrying, new cultivation and fences, become a co-financing between the state and the individual farmer, so that it becomes profitable to increase the area?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1727	First and foremost, the soil is the main basis for maintaining gardening, in other words, agricultural production. It should still be profitable in Norway to make sensible investments, without any incentive to do so. However, the back-up system also stimulates this, such as: through the last year's agricultural holding, at which time the incentive to carry out ditching was doubled. The state is committed to this, but it must be profitable to make that kind of sensible investment in own land. And then the representative Lundtigen is absolutely right in saying that I would like to use more of our land resource. The problem now is that the market situation for roughage-based livestock production has largely been reached. This means that you don't get more grazing over time without more grazing. Then we must have the intention of meat. By definition, we don't have that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1736	The fact is that the agricultural area is declining despite the schemes in place. There are decisions made by thousands of farmers – that one finds it interesting to use less land. So it's not profitable. The investment funds to land must rise, so that one gets to reverse that trend. It is not least important in North Norway and the West, as good examples. So the council says that one could want to use more of the land resource, but it's not possible when one has overproduction. Then we're back to the main point, which is what the community mission is. The societal mission is food security. Increases food safety from 42 pst. to 50 pst, facilitates a large-dimension Norwegian plant production volume. One thus replaces the imported feed and flour with the naturally produced cereals and grass in Norway. Do the councils agree with my logic?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1743	At least I think I'm as united in the logic as the Center Party shows, as they are, for example. voted against the increase in the feed price, which I proposed last year to improve the basis for this. But there's at the same time reason to be consistent in the reasoning. I'm in order for us to have a high use of the Earth resource. The drainage works for it, it improves the crops. But it's clear that if the crops go up on our most productive agricultural land, but the market situation doesn't get any better so that a few translate the goods, the risk of take-off increases as a direct consequence of it. For the most productive areas, even more productive, and the smaller marginal areas are more expensive to operate per crop, by definition. This is an eternal paradox that politics might have to repair, but it's not very easy to find mechanisms to avoid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1755	This question, from Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Older People and Public Health, has been transferred to the Minister for Health as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1760	‘Elder patients are the patient group most affected today by the government’s hospital policy, with cuts in daily treatment and short bedtime. Many older people are written prematurely from hospitals and experience frequent cleaning and unworthy movements between homes, hospitals and hospitals. Half of the lying days that have been cut in recent years affect people over 80 years. What will the country’s senior minister do to ensure that elderly patients are provided with a worthy hospital service, and will the Council require a stop to the dismantling of bed places?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1767	We have a good hospital offer – also for elderly patients. The vast majority of elderly patients make use of specialist healthcare services. One of the most important, especially for the elderly with poor health, is rapid access to good quality services. Therefore, efforts to reduce waiting times are also important for elderly patients. We face a major challenge in the decades to come as a result of demographic developments. We need to change to meet the challenges. New forms of treatment and better organisation can provide a better range of services for patients, shorter hospital stays and better use of bed capacity. More day treatment and outpatient treatment allow patients to receive more decentralised treatment where they live. They can go home and get a follow-up at home instead of being hospitalized. It is good for patients — especially for elderly patients. This implies that the need for beds has decreased in many disciplines, even though more patients are being treated. Sickness rates have decreased in most European countries in the last ten years. Sweden and Denmark have fewer beds per 1000 inhabitants and shorter laytime than Norway. It is positive that new forms of patient treatment and organisation are taking place and that this helps to help more people. It is important to support this development in order to also provide a sustainable health service in the future. At the same time, it is important to monitor closely the development, especially for a vulnerable elderly patient group, with its many and complex disorders. The development plans that are now being developed for hospitals include needs projections and how the supply needs to be developed and adapted accordingly. In this work, municipalities should also be involved. Risk and potential analysis shall be carried out together with those concerned by the changes and shall cover the perspective of both hospitals and municipalities. The aim is to provide the best possible patient care and a specialist healthcare service to this end, within the framework and availability of healthcare professionals in the future. The need for day-to-day treatment for the oldest patients is included in this. The government will also shortly present its own quality reform for the elderly, under the heading Life for life. This reform also includes the provision of specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1786	One of my questions was whether the Council of State would call for a stop in the dismantling of bed places. As I see it as a response from the Council of State, the government will not do so, and the reduction of bed places in Norwegian hospitals will continue. I want to show you what is in the current national health and hospital plan about this. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's ‘Although the trend towards the transition to less burdensome forms of treatment continues, there is reason to believe that older people will also need more day-to-day treatment in the future compared to younger patients. For the 65-year-old group, it is estimated that the need for daily and daily treatment will increase by about 60 % by 2030. This means an increased need for bed capacity.’ So this is according to the government. Then, in my opinion, it seems bad that the Council of State says that the reduction of bed places can continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1798	Both the leaders of the National Health and Hospital Plan and the calculation basis to which the representative refers shall also form the basis for the work of the hospitals on the development plans up to 2035. Then, of course, the different regions will also have to take into account demographic developments and the fact that elderly patients also need hospital services more than other patients when planning for their own capacity and the need for development by 2035. But then, of course, they also need to take account of medical developments, and there we see a trend towards less need for hospitalisation, that more can be done through day care, and that there will be more medical treatment instead of surgical intervention, as has been seen in, for example, the case of drug use. Revmatology. There are major changes that naturally affect this as well as demographic developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1805	It is unintelligible that an additional capacity for bed places should be ensured by laying down sick beds in the future. And to this end, a development plan will take place in cooperation with the municipalities: we have a recent example from today that the OYS may adopt a new hospital, where one cuts 150 000 daily places, where 50,000 will be done through efficiency and 50,000 by transferring patients to the municipality, without the municipality knowing anything about it before the decision is taken. This is most likely to affect elderly patients, who are the most in need, who are major consumers of hospital services, and who then have to experience unworthy early outsourcing treatments, etc. Does the Council not see that such a development would be a risk to elderly patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1812	That's why I've been very clear to health regions that when they're doing their development work by 2035, they're going to base their national health and hospital plans on that work, and they're also going to base it on the best up-to-date figures and an assessment of developments in their region. I expect everyone to do that, including Oslo University Hospital, and not least that they also have cooperation with the municipality and involve the municipalities involved in their work. Then there are many different phases of that kind of work, but it is a very clear requirement that municipalities should also be involved in and informed of the development plan work that is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1822	This question, from the representative of Ole André Myhrvold to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1827	I was a little bit wondering which state council would get the issue of noise, because it's sector-wide, noise we can experience everywhere, but it was the Environment Minister: ‘25. April marks the international noise-free day all over the world. The aim is to draw attention to responses to noise that affect our society, our well-being and our health. The day recalls the importance of targeted action against noise. The size has adopted a national action plan on noise. The SSB has reported a significant increase in the number of noise incidents after this. What concrete objectives does the government have to reverse developments, and how will it provide a broad, targeted response to noise?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1836	It is a national target that the number of noise nuisances should be reduced by 10 pst. by 2020 compared to 1999. Nevertheless, developments show, as the representative also points out, that it may be difficult to achieve the identified noise target by 2020. I agree with the representative that targeted action against noise is important. The transport sector accounts for almost 90 pst. of the recorded noise and road traffic only for nearly 80 pst. There is therefore a particular need for action in that sector and specifically for road traffic. The national noise target was set in 2007, in St.meld. No 26 for 2006-2007. It's an ambitious goal. Many of the most noisy dwellings have received façade insulation and noise protection, but in order to achieve the objectives, we also need to reduce the noise where it occurs. In order to bring down the noise, it is important to have low-noise road surfaces, engines and car tyres. It is also important to facilitate long-term land disposal that contributes to the prevention of noise problems. Prevention through proper land use is likely to be the most cost-effective response to noise. Continuity and coherent urban development may in some cases involve the laying of noise-sensitive buildings up to high-traffic roads or other noise sources. Conflicts may then arise between the objective of developing compact urban areas and national objectives of reducing and reducing noise pollution. At the same time, compact urban development will reduce transport demand. The zero growth target shall ensure that the growth of passenger transport in metropolitan areas is taken by public transport, bicycles and corridors. Together with the development of new technologies such as low-noise car tyres and vehicles, the objective of zero growth in the number of journeys by car will be to reduce the number of long-term noise exposure. National target of 10 pst. reduction of noise pollution by 2020 also requires a combination of national and international initiatives. Measures need to be developed and implemented at national level, and there is a need to develop and require, internationally, significantly more low-noise vehicles and vehicles. National measures include, inter alia: low-noise road surfaces, speed reduction on the road, measures to promote the sale of low-noise car tyres, measures relating to routes, increased focus on low-noise infrastructure components in renewal and expansion projects, and possible replacement of brake blocks on freight trains, noise protection and façade measures. The numbers from the SSB tell us that these measures are still not enough to reduce the noise pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1853	Thanks for the answer. This with traffic noise is correct – and area efficiency. In these days, the largest Norwegian municipalities are developing new action plans against noise, but they are experiencing uncertainties about the overall premises for this work. At the same time, we know that the government is working on an evaluation of guidelines for the treatment of noise in spatial planning, i.e. the so-called T-1442 regulation, and it is a key document in the development of society against noise. However, the outcome of the evaluation is uncertain. Does the Council agree that such a document is an important tool for municipalities, and what will the government do to ensure the best possible basis for rolling out municipal action plans against noise?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1860	There is an action plan in force in 2015 and it is currently not up to date because the government wants a better knowledge base at the bottom. It's now working on generating it. Many of the measures in the existing plan are also in the future. As the representative was also involved, the starting point is that the sector responsibility applies. This means that the various sectoral ministries also have the primary responsibility to ensure the reduction of noise pollution in their own social sector, and I mentioned in my reply that transport is perhaps the sector with the greatest challenges in this area. It is also linked to the job that the municipalities have, not least in terms of land use and planning associated with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1867	Today, early – and there is a little bit more in the streets of the Council of State – we could hear from NRK News today that land efficiency and density led to the government quarter moving from cell offices to open landscapes. We heard a scientist in Sogn and Fjordane who was in danger of entering his office. There is another type of noise, but it is still annoying and can be health limiting, and is proven to lead to less efficiency – by the way, 10 pst. where an attempt has been made. How will the government ensure that those who remain in open office landscapes in the new government quarter continue to achieve efficiency and a working environment that is the noise screen?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1872	When it comes to designing the new government quarter, the local government representative must address the right question to the local government minister. But as the representative is involved, this is a discussion that takes place in large parts of the public sector, including the part of the public sector that I run, not least the universities and colleges that get new campuses, which are remodeling. There is a big debate going on. It is important that we also take into account what is happening to noise pollution and take action to reduce it as well as possible. So this is a debate that's going on and that's probably going on. We can do some concrete action there, but there are people who are going to have to move from an office to a landscape. But just in the case of the new government quarter, the representative must address that question to the municipal minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1884	My question goes to the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘Safety authorities have expressed strong concerns about the lack of IT competence to protect national security-graded information that shall be subject to national control. The situation shall be so critical that there are no Norwegian citizens in the field of cryptology at the doctoral level who can be safely cleared to perform such tasks. What concrete measures has the government taken and planned to build up this kind of competence in order to ensure national security?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1893	The government is concerned that we set up our education and our research in such a way as to ensure the central skills and knowledge needs of the country. We are aware that there may be challenges to meet the needs of the future for advanced ICT security skills, but precisely because we are aware of this challenge, we are in the process of taking a number of measures that we will also follow up in the coming years. In my answer, I now want to focus most on what is done in higher education, research education and research, but it is important to bear in mind that these are complex challenges that require action both in the short and long term. It is important that we do something about educational capacity, but the way to becoming an experienced cryptologist is quite long. What is done in the more short term is illuminated, among others. in a written reply by Minister of Justice and Security Per-Willy Amundsen on 15 December 2017, to question 530 from the representative Ketil Kjenseth, on what is done to obtain more people with Norwegian citizenship with doctoral qualifications in cryptology. Here it is shown, among other things. to work by the national safety authority to build competences in cryptology, and also close contact and interaction with the national and international academia. Universities and higher education institutions, as an important part of their societal mission, have to respond to the needs of society for skills in working life when developing their study programmes and training their candidates. Furthermore, all research actors in Norway must also contribute to the development of knowledge of key societal challenges. These are things that are and will be highlighted in the long-term plan for research and higher education. In general, good framework conditions for higher education and research are important to enable actors to solve this task in a good and flexible way. In addition, the government has set up targeted efforts in specific individual areas where we see that there has been a need for extra effort. ICT security and cryptography are just such an area and capacity has been strengthened by several specific initiatives. For example, in the context of the 2018 state budget, 500 new ICT training places were allocated, with a special emphasis on prioritising ICT security, including cryptology. The 500 places will be added to 750 places allocated in 2017, resulting in a total of 5000 places of study, as the annual intake is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1904	That's right, we're talking about critically important competences for Norway. It is alarming when a reader in the newspapers — just after New Year’s — that Norway is soon unable to guard state secrets, that the national safety authority is notifying of a very large number of data attacks against Norwegian enterprises and public agencies, and that there is also likely to be quite high levels of darkness. So building up this kind of competence is both resource-intensive and time-consuming. Some disappear because they are tempted by things other than going into academia and taking a doctoral course, and to direct this – in a way – towards the process you want can be difficult. I think it's important things the council points to, but I have to be allowed to ask: how are we going to build an environment with a critical mass, and are there any thoughts from the government about specifically focusing on building up exactly these environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1911	First of all, I believe that the measures taken by the government with regard to study places are important. I believe the measures we have taken with PhD fellows are important. But we also have to admit that it takes a while from starting a study until you're fully educated and have the pinnacle skills that some of these environments need. It's like someone's going to be in the academy and continue research and work as researchers, while others are going out into business. So here it's important that we both make sure that we have research skills and that our business community has access to the skills that are needed. There has to be an interaction between the government, which here grants places of study and PhD places, and the institutions themselves, who also have to take the responsibility they have. This will also have to be about the further training of the people who live in business because it is clear that there are a lot of people with skills out there who will also “fill” and do important tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1920	I do not disagree with any of what the Council of State says, but I would like to point out a few points in addition. One is: I think this area is one of those areas where you have to think a little bit nationally, that is, build up national environments that can contribute to both education and recruitment. And to the extent that you talk about discrimination nationally, I think this is one of the areas where you have to think about it. The second is: Sick if there is – in one way – a balance between business and education and academia, I think the Ministry of Knowledge has done its job, that is, in terms of places of study and recruitment, but there will be a need here for other departments as well. Both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence will need, and probably also the Ministry of Transport. So the question is whether you can get better cooperation between departments, so that the ministry can contribute together, including in raising demand for this kind of competence and knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1927	At the end of the day: it is quite right, there is also a sector responsibility, and here are the sectors that are in great need of that competence, which have to take responsibility for lifting it, and I also feel that it is being done. At the same time, we should be honest that we can always get better. I am pleased that the representative refers to thinking nationally, that this is a kind of challenge we face that cannot necessarily be solved only by local action in each place, but that we need to build strong environments of competence. I think we have good environments of competence today. One example is NTNU Gjøvik and the CCIS environment there, which has received both study places and scholarships, if I don't remember completely wrong, and is a good example of what I think is a strong national environment, but which also has the potential to develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1936	‘At a time when all businesses rely on digitised solutions, access to ICT security competence is essential. It has long been a problem for both industry and government to provide ICT security personnel in general and cryptologists in particular. These are skills that are crucial in the fight against espionage, sabotage and terror. What measures will the government take to ensure that educational institutions actually give priority to the training of cryptologists?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1943	First of all, I would like to refer to the answer I gave to the previous question from the representative Arnstad. The government is concerned that we set up our education and research in such a way that the central skills and knowledge needs of the country are safeguarded. We are aware that it is a challenge to meet the needs that lie there in the future when it comes to advanced ICT security competence, and that is precisely why we have launched these measures to follow up in the years to come. Universities and colleges, as an important part of their societal mission, have the task of providing candidates with the skills necessary for working life, and all research actors in Norway must be involved and contribute to the development of the knowledge that central societal challenges require us to have. I will refer to the long-term plan for research and higher education that exists, but also to the revision that we are currently carrying out and that will be submitted until the autumn. Generally good framework conditions for higher education and research are important so that actors can build environments of competence and solve their societal tasks in a flexible and good way. The government has also set up targeted and concrete efforts in this area, and I just want to repeat what I said to the representative Arnstad, that in the 2018 budget, 500 new ICT study places were allocated, with a special lead that ICT security, including cryptology, should be given priority. The 500 places are added to the 750 places allocated in 2017. That gives a total of 5,000 places to study. There has been an increase in the number of places of study that has been quite significant in recent years. It is positive to see that the number of applicants is increasing, it is important to be able to ensure that there are well-qualified applicants entering these studies. The government has given high priority to research education, and we are overcoming the long-term goal of recruiting. Of the new posts allocated by the State budget for 2018, a total of 61, 22 are earmarked for ICT with emphasis on ICT security, including cryptology. Research in this area is also being pursued, including: through the IKTPLUSS Programme of the Research Council, where 150 million has been allocated. kr within the bet area A secure information society, followed by a new 200 million call in 2018. kr. The aim is to develop knowledge, technology and perspectives necessary to reduce digital vulnerabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1954	I thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that the question and the answer here is related to the previous representative's question, but I am trying to nuance a little anyway. As the Council of State also points out, there is the demand for expertise we are concerned with. The NIFU report, which came last year, pointed out that by 2030 there will be more than 4,000 unoccupied jobs in ICT security in Norway, and the Global Information Security Workforce Study shows that by 2022 there will be 1.8 million people missing globally. I then wonder if the Council of State, in addition to the need to continue to step up precisely the study places pointed out by the Council of State, sees the need to integrate ICT security as a compulsory subject in all ICT education and training.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1961	I do not want to say on the stand that we should make ICT security mandatory, but I am concerned that our educational institutions should take their social work seriously, and that they should assess to what extent it is necessary to implement ICT security in their ICT education, and in that case which of the education and training it is natural to implement. I am absolutely sure that to some extent it is already happening today, but I believe that the educational institutions themselves are the closest to assessing how it can be done, and whether that is necessary and appropriate. They have an important social mission to ensure that the candidates who get to the other end have the skills that our country needs and that our working life needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1966	There is no doubt that ICT security is closely linked to the digitalisation we see in society in general. That's why it's a very interesting issue to discuss further. In addition to this, the Council of State also points to continuing training places. Last year’s NIFU report, which I mentioned earlier, highlighted the fact that there are a significant number of ICT continuing training places in general and even fewer in ICT security in particular. Then I wonder if the Council of State will take initiatives towards the UH sector to establish more provision in the field of continuing education and thus increase the scope of competence in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1971	I can assure the representative that when it comes to ICT, ICT security and digitisation, it is first of all something that I feel more government councils are concerned about. It is also about the sectoral responsibility of each State Council and, as the representative Arnstad just mentioned, this is also relevant for the justice sector, the transport sector and more. So this is a responsibility that we can't take alone in the Department of Knowledge. This is something that the sectors must also take responsibility for. We are now in the process of a reform called Learn All Your Life. Continuing education is something that is going to become even more topical in the future, because today's workers are going to need professional replenishment. It is also about enabling the workers you have to meet the challenges that lie there. If money is involved, it has to be included in the budgets in the future, but there is also good work in the institutions today in the field of continuing training. I also perceive that our educational institutions are particularly concerned with technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1981	This question, from the representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand, is addressed to the Minister of Research and Higher Education, but has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge and Integration as the appropriate member. The Minister for Research and Higher Education, on behalf of the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, who has left. So let's live for each other!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1986	So that's how it works! The question is: ‘The Government’s overall State grant to specialised schools in the Ministry of Knowledge and, through dialogue and legislation, would ensure good conditions for vocational education in line with regional and national skills needs. The provision of vocational education in agriculture is perceived as relevant, necessary and requested. What causes some agricultural subjects to be recognized as technical subjects earlier, but not today, and who has to pay for this new practice to go beyond the vocational school offer in agricultural training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e1995	Until 2009, government grants were granted to county councils offering technical and maritime vocational education. Agricultural subjects were not covered by that subsidy scheme. The grant for technical and maritime vocational education was incorporated into the county framework grant in 2010. In the period 2010 to 2017, these funds have been excluded from the expenditure equalisation in the income system and distributed between county municipalities based on student figures two years earlier. Other vocational education services were financed either by the free income of the county or by other government grants. An agricultural training offer in Akershus was included in the basis for the allocation of funds to technical technical school offers in 2015, and other agricultural offers have since been established that have not been included in the basis for the allocation of funds. Vocational education and training shall be vocational and developed in close cooperation with industry. The counties and the future regions are closest to assessing the need for regional competence and are therefore responsible for the management of vocational education and training. The government has introduced a new funding model for State grants to vocational schools, where the county municipality itself can give priority to the provision of vocational education facilities that should receive grants in each county. If the county councils want to give priority to agriculture, they can do so. As of 2018, part of the grant to county councils is profit-based, i.e. the higher the grant, the higher the number of post-secondary school credits awarded in the county, and all counties, including agricultural subjects, are included in the calculation of the result-based grant. The government looks at the vocational schools as an important piece in the future working life, where the goal is for us all to learn throughout our lives. Vocational schools offer both basic and continuing vocational training that businesses need. The government is therefore allocating funds to more than 600 new places of study in vocational education in 2018. We also wanted 35 million. kr in development funds, such as, inter alia, shall contribute to improving the quality of vocational education and training and to ensuring that they meet local skills needs. The conversion of the funding of vocational training courses has therefore not reduced the possibility for counties to finance agricultural training. That opportunity has been strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2012	I thank you for the clarification here. The Ministry of Knowledge is responsible for the policy of competence and for the right and sufficient competence of industry and the labour market, and the Centre then feels that in the green shift the agricultural industry plays a very, very important role. For this reason, requested education, as the vocational training offer is, is important to finance, and county municipalities do not have financial muscles to finance such education alone. If the Council of State is not willing to finance training provision for industry and agriculture demand, it may mean that this will be phased out in the long term. The Nou ‘Fachskolan — An Attractive Choice of Education’ does not distinguish between the different courses. The vocational school has for a number of years met the technical, health and agricultural/green subjects' needs of competence. Then I wonder: why is it difficult to prioritise vocational education in agriculture when there is actually a real need for this competence both nationally and regionally?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2019	Let me just point out once again that this government is putting vocational education high and viewing it as an important part of higher education, because we need candidates who not only choose an academic course but who choose a more practical course. Then we can definitely have a pretty big and good discussion about how we're going to get more people to choose college education. What I want to answer the question now is that it is up to the county council which courses they want to offer at their colleges, because now the vocational schools are not directly funded by state grants. The new funding model makes it the county councils themselves the priority which should receive grants in each county, and then it is the county council itself that has to assess the needs they have right there and what offers they want to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2024	It is very nice to hear that the government is betting in the vocational schools, and I hope that we can continue to bet on agricultural education. Let's take a concrete example: the Inland Trade School currently has five agrotechnics approved by NOKUT. In addition, the three new patients have received treatment at NOCUT. The government writes on its website that the purpose of presenting a new law on vocational education, which the Education and Research Committee is currently examining, is just to follow up on the ‘Training for the Future’. The paper contains a number of measures to strengthen vocational education and to meet the need for up-to-date and specialised competence through short and vocational education and training. What should be done to include the already established and NOCUT-approved agricultural training courses at the Inland School in the State funding scheme for the vocational education sector and to safeguard the government's ambition for the future professionals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2033	In 2018, the government allocated 22 million. NOK 638 new places of study at specialised schools, and in particular those places of study will increase the supply of healthcare and technical subjects. There are 15 county municipalities that receive funding for new places of study in 2018. When the representative named Uppland, I have been informed that they have been allocated funds for 23 new places of study, and the background for that is the application for funds for technical subjects. But as I also said in my previous post, the new funding model is that the county municipality itself needs to give priority to what vocational school offers are to be awarded in each county, and therefore it is up to Uppland to give priority to agricultural education. If the representative has further questions about exactly the vocational education in Oppland, I suggest that the representative send a written question to the State Council, Sanner, she will certainly get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2041	«In Norway's Fire School in Tjeldsund in Nordland, a specialised school offer was to be launched in the autumn of 2019 to contribute to better competence in all the country's fire services. The opening has now been postponed indefinitely due to the need for «infrastructure». What infrastructure is the delay in opening up, and what is the new timetable per. today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2048	I would first like to refer to the representative's question No. 1302 for a written answer on a new technical school for the training of fire and rescue personnel, which I answered on 18 April 2018. Here I will repeat some of what I said in the letter. The government will strengthen fire training. The State budget for 2017 and 2018 provides funds for the establishment of a new two-year vocational school for the training of fire and rescue personnel at the Norwegian Fire School at Fjelldal in the municipality of Tjeldsund. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness now works well with the establishment project, and in this work has had a goal of starting the vocational school in the autumn of 2019. When the vocational school is fully operational, it is planned to take 160 students annually. There will be 240 students present in Teldsund at the same time, while 80 students will at any time be out in practice in a fire and rescue service. It is necessary to ensure that the place of education has educational buildings and facilities adapted to the future number of students and employees at school. Appropriate premises and infrastructure are also important prerequisites for the recognition of the education of NOKUT, i.e. the national quality body for education. The vocational school will use existing premises and infrastructure in Norway's fire school. In addition, there is a need for a new educational building, fire station, canteens, parking and fence. There is also a need to make further assessments of training fields and associated training objects. There is a need for a new infrastructure at Norway's fire school before a new technical school can begin. The work on new infrastructure will follow the guidelines for state-owned construction projects. State buildings will carry out the necessary assessments in relation to the construction of new infrastructure during the next year. At the same time, the further establishment of the vocational school will depend on the annual budgetary processes. This means that the exact progress plan and start-up time of the new vocational school cannot, unfortunately, be fixed at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2063	It is not surprising that teaching structures are required if you are to start a new vocational school. But it was 13 February 2015 that the then member of the Justice Committee, Margunn Ebbesen, came to Tjeldsund with the glad tidings that it would open in autumn 2018, later shifted to 2019. In the autumn of 2015, a new Right-Rapporteur was elected in Tjeldsund, and now three years later, the same rapporteur was to sign public-private cooperation contracts to build 240 shelves, so that there would be room for the students at the college. She has heard by way of detour that the vocational school will nevertheless not open in the autumn of 2019. So how is she going to get her infrastructure set up? I wonder a little when the government was going to inform the local government of the vocational school that there will be no opening in the autumn of 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2070	When you're going to start a construction project like this, there are several things that have to happen in order, and that unfortunately isn't always as easy to predict. The first is that you have to assess whether the infrastructure is in place and what you need to repair it. That's what State Building does. Once you've mapped it, you can make a plan for the financial assumptions. Also that job will be done by State Building. Then we can make a progress plan and put it in the budget. But at the same time, in order to keep pace, it is important to continue working with all the other elements – syllabus, teaching materials and recruitment. It operates with the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. We have no desire but to do this as quickly as possible, but there are a number of things that need to be in place before we have a budget, and when we have the budget clear, there is a budgetary process that gets this through.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2077	It may seem that the government is a little late in a plan for costs and progress in this important project for fire and rescue competence in Norway. This will be the first and only technical school within fire and rescue in Norway. It's interesting for more people to know what estimates have been made for the budget that the government has begun to plan, and what is necessary to take up next year's budget in order to realise these promises from the government. What estimates have been made for the 2019 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2082	At this point, as I say, we are still on Part 1, which is to identify the need for infrastructure. It's absolutely vital to identify it before you can make the financial assumptions. As soon as those things have been mapped, we are going to take on the financial assumptions – state-building will provide estimates of that – and when we have it, it is progress plan and budget, and it is then the Stortinge to adopt a budget. So we don't have the figures that make it possible for us to provide a budget, and that's why it's hard to decide on the progress plan at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2092	‘In Telemarksavias on 19 April 2018, it appears that the entire prosecution section at Notodden is centralised into Skien. It also appears that the management of the prosecution authority in the South-East police district has argued that only 31 cases are dealt with at the Notodden this year, while the reality is 81 cases. Is it wise to move six jobs as well as an important legal professional environment away from the upper part of Telemark, and is the decision really correct and well-founded when it appears that the police in this case are operating with the wrong numbering material?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2099	I am concerned that the police meet targets and requirements within the framework and guidelines set by the magnificence, government and department. In 2018, one of the objectives is effective high-quality criminal justice. However, it must be up to the police and the police chief himself to take the necessary steps and allocate the resources necessary to meet the objectives and requirements. One of the intentions of the close police reform is to establish robust professional environments with a high level of professional competence. I am concerned about this because, among other things. are necessary in order to create a level playing field in police services. An overall prosecution environment will have an impact on the local professional and competence development, flexibility and reduced vulnerability of the prosecution unit. The framework and guidelines for the establishment of new police districts indicate that the South-East Police District should have a single unit for prosecution with overall responsibility for police investigations in the police district. Other devices are assessed with a background of professional and local knowledge and are an assessment which must be attributed to the police chief. I have obtained information from the Police Directorate and the State Attorney's Office to further clarify the question asked by the representative Sem-Jacobsen. South-East police districts state that today there is a major difference in the professional support the police unit can provide the service in Telemark. With today's organisation, the prosecution unit is unable to make a similar offer to all the agencies. This may result in different quality of treatment for the individual. By bringing together law-enforcement lawyers, it will be easier to give priority to the issues to be addressed by individual law-enforcement lawyers, and the law-enforcement lawyer will be more able to strengthen his competence and the possibility of specialisation. Overall, this will provide better criminal justice for all Telemark residents. A legal profession with only three lawyers is very vulnerable. South-East police districts report that some 1000 cases related to the Notodden are being dealt with. The number of cases referred to by the magnification representative is the main negotiations dealt with in the East-Telemark District Court. This is about 80 things. South-East police districts state that the correct number of cases dealt with in East-Telemark District has been taken into account in the organisation of the prosecution unit. I assume that the South-East Police Commissioner has assessed what kind of organisation is most appropriate in order to obtain the best possible quality and effectiveness in the investigation and prosecution work. I also note that the State Attorney's Office supports the police chief's assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2114	Now I hear that the Minister of Justice is very concerned with robust professional environments that the government's government councils are usually when they drive and centralize. But the professional community at the Notodden Police Station is totally dependent on that prosecution unit. It has made it extremely effective, and they have cooperated very well. I am also very concerned about the processes, and it was also the government at the beginning of this police reform. The municipalities concerned have not even been notified of this movement of the prosecution unit. It's a bad process. It's also, it turns out now, the process of shutting down passport offices in Telemark. Here, knowingly, the Stortinget decided that there is a case to go back to this room, while there are plans to drop three offices already on 1 June. Is it that the Minister of Justice thinks it's good to skip what's decided in this room? Will he stop the planned closures on June 1st?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2121	The representative, Sem-Jacobsen, has now moved the focus to passport offices. Let me start by saying in general that the department will of course deal with what the Storting decides. In the case of the passport page, there is also an ongoing reorganisation. It is important to see all the justifications used before drawing a conclusion. As far as the police are concerned, in terms of the charges and the other tasks for which the police are responsible, we have implemented a police reform in which we give the chief of police the responsibility for organising the resources so that it is best suited to the citizens of the entire police district. It's not like the Ministry of Justice has wanted to put things down for the most part to plague people, it's to get more police force and better quality at all procedural levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2134	I am therefore not confirmed that the Minister of Justice will stop the closure that has not been dealt with in the Chamber, but he says that we should deal with the decisions taken here. I'll take that with me to Telemark. When it comes to what's best for the whole district, I have to say that in the upper part of Telemark you have now, contrary to what you promised, removed both the prosecution and the issue of passports, and you've gone from nine to three intruders. What was supposed to be police contact in a separate function is just added to many other tasks for those who are already employed there. So there has been a great weakening of security and preparedness here. That's not what was promised. Is it, then, that in particular this part of the police district should not the police chief pay particular attention, because she should be concerned about the large part? What about the people who live there? What about the municipalities that need these jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2143	I believe it is important that we allow the near-police reform to work, and that we allow the police officers to work at the organisation they plan to organise the resources so that they make the most of the crime scene before judging what has been done. The crime scene we have today is very different from what you had 20, 30, 40 years ago. 40 years ago, and perhaps over 100 years ago, a map of police districts based on a crime scene that doesn't exist today. Sometimes you have to adjust the map so that it actually fits the terrain. It's a task we've added to the police officers, and I'm sure the police officers are doing very seriously and at best.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2160	‘Do the Council of State consider that current isolation use in Norwegian prisons is acceptable and what other specific plans, in addition to resource teams, do the Council of State have to clean up the unworthy conditions of the very mentally ill in Norwegian prisons?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2165	Isolation may be harmful to the prisoners. It is therefore established in the Jeloya platform that the government will reduce the use of insulation. It is an important task for criminal services both to limit the use of isolation and to counteract isolation damage in prisoners who are isolated for various reasons during periods. Many prisoners have mental disorders and complex challenges. Some prisoners, such as those in Division G of Ila prison, are in a very special situation. These are people with extensive mental disorders. They have committed serious criminal acts and often have a difficult background and violent behaviour. For them, imprisonment means that they are well on the way. Isolation is the expression of a need to protect other prisoners and employees. This is a demanding group of prisoners, and it is challenging to find good solutions, but although it is difficult, we have to work to find good solutions. In 2014, this government provided for the creation of a resource team for the very sickest in Ila prison. The Resource Team has assigned prisoners who are unable to adapt to an ordinary Community department, activation in the form of aeration, training, conversation, cooking and action. This was an important measure that has had a positive impact on the group of prisoners in question. Prisoners must be active and have a satisfactory health service. Prison health services are a vital link between prison, specialist health services and the individual prison community. The government has increased the contribution to the prison health service by 10 million. kr last year and 5 mill. kr in year. I am aware that the Ministry of Health and Welfare for 2018 has asked regional health companies to strengthen the mental health provision of prison inmates. As the resource team has now existed for approx. Three years, it's natural to sum up the experience with the team. This will contribute to the development of actions in the future. As of today, I cannot say exactly what measures we should take at political level in relation to these challenges. I have to come back to Stortinget with this. But one thing is certain: the issue of mental illness in prison is one that will have to be on the agenda for the future. I want close contact with the Minister of Health on the challenges raised by the Focus programme last week, with a view to finding appropriate measures. It is demanding when challenges for weak groups meet us. None of us can be unaffected by the part of reality that Focus communicated, but I value the information and the incentive for action contained in the TV program and the reactions to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2180	I thank you for your answer and am pleased that the Council of State will come back to Stortinget for further work on this. But what does the Council of State think about the fact that the government's lack of commitment to the operation of Norwegian prisons, with constant cutbacks in recent years, has led to more isolation, smaller programme activities and, therefore, even worse conditions for combating new crime? Will the Council of State ensure that prisons are given more resources in the future, so that it is possible to do something about these unworthy conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2185	As I said, we have already strengthened the conditions of these prisoners, but it is again important to remember that prison does not isolate anyone for lack of resources. These are people who have been sentenced to prison by a court, not by a political authority. It is basically a judge who has said that it should be prison and not mental health protection. When they are in prison, the prison system has an obligation to protect the prisoners from violent people. You also have an obligation to protect your employees. That's why isolation is used. Of course, we also want to assess the resource teams – as we have a sense of success – to see if there is more of exactly what we are going to do, or if there are other measures that can be just as good or better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2192	Employees in Norwegian prisons have reported that they experience violence and threats from prisoners to a much greater extent than before, and have reported an increase in the use of isolation due to an irresponsible resource situation. The government has so far not listened — nor the Council of State, according to the answer he gave to the previous question — to the employees. As a new Minister of Justice and as one we all have great expectations, will he take this into account and provide for a rise in criminal justice, so that we can get less use of isolation, a safer working day for those who work in prisons, and a punishment that actually works?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2199	As I said, we've already strengthened their offer, and we'll see if that's the right way to strengthen it, or if there are other ways that are better. It's the prison system's job. Then we have to remember, because sometimes it may seem as if these inmates are completely forgotten and abandoned, that these are inmates who get a visit from the health care system – usually twice a week – and that the health care system is going to transfer to the psychiatry if that's right. If that's not right, they have to stay in prison. It's also important, I think, to correct the picture of how extensive this problem is in the department it's talking about in the TV program Focus. It's about about six people, who've got extra resources and extra teams for follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2209	This question, from the representative Heidi Greni to the Minister for Justice, Preparedness and Immigration, has been transferred to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2216	I have reported the following questions to the Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration: ‘Has the government assessed the security and preparedness consequences of dual citizenship in a situation where Norwegian citizens also have citizenship in a country of Norway in conflict with?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2223	The Government has recently consulted on a proposal to abolish the principle of one citizenship. The hearing period expired on 20 March this year, and there were more than 300 hearings. The Ministry is now working on summarising and assessing the matter in the light of what has happened in the hearing. A separate chapter of the consultation note is devoted to a discussion on how the winding-up of the principle of one citizenship can affect the image of security and crime. Here it is, among other things. a point of possible conflicts of loyalty. There was also a separate point in the consultation note where it was explained that the liquidation of the principle of one citizenship would involve the need for more resources for security clearances. One important point in the consultation note is that the real rule is already a double nationality. In the period from 1 January 2010 to 1 April 2017, there were between 50 and 60 pst. of those who applied for Norwegian citizenship who were exempted from the requirement to withdraw from their original citizenship. The main emphasis of applicants who have been exempted from the resolution requirement is from Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia, Eritrea, Iran, Thailand and Russia. In addition to those who may retain their original citizenship when they become Norwegian, many have dual citizenship because they have automatically acquired other citizenship at birth. Norway has so far managed the many cases of dual citizenship without major problems. Allowing dual citizenship is, moreover, an international trend. All Nordic countries now allow dual citizenship in full and have not reported significant problems related to their legislation. Prop. 146 L for 2016–2017, Changes to the Civil Code, etc., were dealt with in the Stortinget in March this year. The Grand Duchy adopted a new provision of the Civil Code on the loss of citizenship of persons convicted, for example, of terrorist activities. The budget has decided to ask the government to come back with proposals for the loss of citizenship in the interests of fundamental national interests and that such losses should be decided by the Court of Justice. In the light of the Storting decision, the government is now working to determine whether a system of prompt judicial redress can be established on matters relating to the loss of citizenship in the interests of fundamental national interests. The government’s assessment is that rules on the loss of citizenship in criminal matters or in the interests of fundamental national interests can help prevent terrorist activities in Norway. The full effect of the proposal, however, assumes that the general rule of one citizenship is terminated, because the loss of citizenship can only take place where the person concerned has a different citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2236	I thank you for your answer. But my question was asked to the Minister of Justice and Security that it was the preparedness consequences of double citizenship that I wanted to be informed. The Minister of Justice and Defence did not want to answer because it was not his constitutional responsibility. Now I have to be allowed to say that I am amazed that the government then sends another government council that does not have the constitutional responsibility, and I am even more surprised when I then meet Vara on my way up to the pulpit here. But now leave it. It's not to be demeaned for Nybø, but I find it strange from the government's side. By introducing dual citizenship, I'm afraid we can change one of the basic principles of our society: the principle of being a citizen of one country, one has loyalty to one country, and one has duties and rights in the same country. It's these principles that change, and the question is, what could be the consequences of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2243	It's quite right, as the representative says, that it's a change of principles that we've had to now, but I also want to make it clear that Norway is the only country in the Nordic region that has the principle of one citizenship. Denmark amended its legislation with effect from 1 September 2015. In addition, Sweden, Finland and Iceland have already allowed dual citizenship. Experience has been gained from the Nordic countries, but no specific problems related to their legislation have been reported. There are also countries other than Nordic countries, for example. The United States, which has allowed dual citizenship. But it has been important for the government, and it is crucially important that double citizenship is a prerequisite for, for example: to deprive some of their citizenship. There is already the right to refuse any citizenship today if there are fundamental national interests or foreign policy interests that should be addressed to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2250	If necessary, a person who has a double nationality will have rights and obligations in two countries. It follows the expectation of loyalty to two countries. When it is now generally opened up to double citizenship, there will be other consequences. There will be countries that are much closer to us geographically that will have the possibility of dual citizenship than the Council of State has listed, which has the possibility today because they do not solve their citizens from citizenship. It is a dilemma that, through the introduction of dual citizenship, we have not been informed of this with the conflict of loyalty. Does the Council agree that this will be a challenge and that it should therefore be carefully investigated before we introduce a general dual citizenship? And what does the Council of State think are the main advantages and disadvantages of perhaps introducing dual citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2257	There were many questions in one question, but let me start at the top. The Government is now examining a system of rules on how to deprive citizenship of fundamental national interests, and that applies to what the representative addresses, including loyalty. In March of this year, the Grand Duchy has also adopted the option of depriving citizenship if a criminal offence is punishable by Chapter 16, 17 or 18, which includes, inter alia, the following: acts of terrorism and the protection of Norway’s independence. It is that there are many countries in the world today, including countries that are close up to us, and countries that we are very much like, that have allowed dual citizenship, and that have had it over a certain period of time. It has also been important to look at the experience from there. Experience shows that there are no negative consequences of allowing dual citizenship. I think the main advantage is for those who feel that they belong to two countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2269	‘The resource situation in the police districts is demanding. Vice-Chairman of the Swedish Police Association recently wrote in a chronicle that there are major differences between cities and countries in Norway’s largest police district, showing, among other things, a temporary lack of police preparedness. For example, a hotel host at Grotli in Uppland had to handle and apprehend an unbeatable guest because it took too long for the police to move out. Inland police districts have a police coverage of only 1.45 per cent. 1000 inhabitants. Does the Council of State consider the current situation to be satisfactory?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2276	The government has made a historic promise to the police. Last year we passed 17 000 employees, more than 10,000 of whom are police trained. This year, a further 350 posts are allocated to the police districts and special agencies. This means that there have been over 2,300 more police posts since this government joined in 2013. Overall, the police and officers' seat has increased by more than 2,300 paid annual work since 2013. We will achieve the target of two police officers per 1000 citizens on a national basis. This, together with a Since the government's accession, inland police districts have been allocated 81 more police posts, of which 50 have arrived since the beginning of 2017. In 2018, a further 24 police posts have been allocated to the Inland Police District, which will help to strengthen police presence in line with the objective of the close police reform. By 31 December 2017, the police district had a police coverage of 1.47 per 1 000 inhabitants. This is a significant improvement from 2013, when the Inland police district was 1.29 per 1 000 inhabitants. On 1 April, a new start was made for the Inland Police District. The new Criminal Office, which is responsible for speeding up and improving the procedure, has begun too fully. The new leadership group was in place, and thus the job of developing good professional environments in the police district with similar services. That's when the real job starts by raising the quality of the police services in the district. It is important for me to give the police and police officers room for action to distribute their resources in the best possible way. They know where the shoe prints. Local police also have to decide how to solve specific tasks and situations. Police must give priority to the tasks they have at all times to follow up, which in some cases means that it takes time before a patrol is on-site. In exceptional events and events where life is directly threatened, or where for other reasons it is required with immediate response from the police, we make demands for response time. I am pleased that the Inland Police District complies mainly with the response time requirements. Finally, I would like to remind you that we are in the midst of a reform that has the highest priority in development tasks for the police until 2020. The reform involves significant police conversion, with the aim of strengthening the capacity, accessibility and achievement of the mission in order to contribute to a safer society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2289	It is very worrying that there are so many differences in police Norway, and that the differences also apply within each police district. The citizens of Norway must be able to trust that the police have enough resources to work prevention in their communities, and not least that they are able to move out when something happens. If the Inland police districts had increased their police coverage to, for example, 1.8 police officers per 1 000 inhabitants, who are under the national target, would in themselves require 130-140 new domestic police officers only in the coming years. But it seems that the Council of State has little ambitions for a stepping up of importance in the Inland, so I wonder what police coverage, concretely, the Council of State believes is a good goal for the Inland police district – for example, it is. 1.47 today, is it 1.8 or that 2 per 1,000 inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2294	I'm dealing with the goal that Stortinget has set, which is two by 2020. That's the target. That doesn't mean it's going to be the same police coverage in absolutely every place in all of Norway. The division takes place through the Police Directorate, and then to the individual police chief. I think it's important to know and remember that we're facing a completely different crime scene than what existed when the old police districts and the old county councils were drawn. What we want now is to do two things. Firstly, we want to strengthen the police, and also the Inland police districts have been significantly strengthened, both in crew and in relation to the police per capita since this government joined. The other thing we want to do is to give the police chief the freedom of action to take the crime scene the best possible way, so that the citizens feel safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2299	We see that there are major capacity challenges. The event that happened on Grotli is not the only example. For example, the Vice-Chairman of the Joint Police Association wrote: in its chronicle that those who opted for trust may refer to several non-conformities due to a lack of preparedness. Earlier this year, it was also known that the Inland police districts have serious problems periodically because local offices need to spend a lot of time driving custody prisoners to and from prison or other productions, which in turn make large areas stand completely free of police coverage for periods. The Council of State said that there have been 2,300 more police officers, but a very large proportion of them have arrived in the Police Directorate and in special agencies. Then my question is, is it relevant for the Council of State to consider whether there is a need for as many people in the police department as work there today, and whether any of these could have been out in the police districts and solved local tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2306	The biggest growth has come in the police districts. The Directorate has a task with the conversion that requires resources. The specificities that are strengthened include: The police security service, and it's based on what assessment we have of security in the country. Then I have to say that we are measuring the response time of all the politicians and in all the police districts. Inland police districts comply with the response time requirement at all points, except for sites with less than 2000 inhabitants. Here the response time is 1 minute longer than the requirement. That's the cut you need to see. So I think it's completely possible to find anecdotes where things can take longer, and it's obviously because the police are a department that's not just sitting waiting for a call-out, they're out doing a job all the time. And then you might get some jobs that stay one after the other or on top of another, or that geographically it doesn't. However, on average, the response time is only 1 minute too long for locations with less than 2000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2313	Case No. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-25.ana.ud317e2327	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
