ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e73	Representatives of Ingunn Foss, Else-May Botten, Margunn Ebbesen, Willfred Nordlund, Mona Fagerås, Marianne Marthinsen, Heidi Nordby Lunde, Espen Barth Eide and Tage Pettersen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following shall now be called up by the alternates: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve For the Nordic region: Kjell-Idar Juvik For the Telemark counties: Heidi Herum
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e130	The representative, Mr Kaski, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e135	On behalf of the representatives of Solfrid Lerbreck, Arne Nävra, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to facilitate the best possible way of connecting to the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e140	The representative, Ms Sangtarash, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e145	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I would like to propose representatives to require transparency on fees from the pharmaceutical industry to healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e150	The representative, Lise Christoffersen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e155	On behalf of Jonas Gahr Støre, Hadia Tajik, Arild Grande, Leif Audun Sande and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on improvements in the code of professional damages.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e161	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters are dealt with on the map for today, the President will inform you that the meeting is continuing beyond noon today. 16, until the map for today is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e181	The President will suggest that the speaking time is limited to 5 minutes for each batch group. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no opportunity to change lines, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e190	The Presidency shall present its position on the basis of the report of the sample which has assessed the electoral process and the eligibility of members appointed by the Stortinget to various committees, selections and denominators. The background for the establishment of the sample was first of all the discussions in the Stortingen last harvest related to the election of members of the Nobel Committee. However, the mandate of the sample was further extended and included all external committees, selections and names for which members are elected by the Storting. As the leader of the sample, I can say that there was a great deal of agreement on the broad lines in terms of both the selection procedure and the qualification requirements and limitations that should apply. On some points, there are these that I guess those who are behind these will explain. Today’s starting point is that the party groups propose candidates according to the size of the groups in Stortinget. One of the main conclusions of the sample is that this starting point should be continued where nothing else has been decided. Both the selection and the presidency believe that this process is essentially working well. It ensures that different social views are represented in the collegiate bodies to which the Stortinget chooses its members and that the political balance is reflected at all times. They will normally also have a good knowledge of those proposed and a basis for assessing their qualifications and suitability. I'm going to say a little bit about the proposals for changes both on the sample and on the presidency, and on the Nobel Committee. It is agreed that the heads of international organisations in which countries are members may not be elected as members of the Nobel Committee. The same applies to senior officials. The background for this is the loyalty bands that individuals in such positions will have to their contracting entities, i.e.: Member States of an organisation and government. Such combinations of roles may invite speculations about the evaluations carried out in the Nobel Committee and may, in the worst case, contribute to such doubts as to the independence of members and the authority of the Committee. The Presidency is promoting proposals in line with this. Leading officials or persons who are leaders of the type of international organisations concerned will not subsequently be eligible for election. I assume that people who enter such a position while they are on the committee will have to resign as members of the committee. It is agreed that decisions taken by Stortinget regarding the eligibility of the Nobel Committee shall not have retroactive effect. This means that they will not apply to those who are currently elected as members of the Committee and who already have a position as referred to in the Decision. The selection did not go further into the internal processes of the party groups prior to the launch of the candidates. However, both the selection and the presidency stress that the groups have a great responsibility to promote candidates who are both highly qualified and have the personal qualities to be able to defame the relevant positions. In addition, the presidency has pointed out that there is a need to look at combinations of roles that can be unfortunate and create challenges for the candidates. No matter how candidates are proposed, a majority in the Grand Duchy must stand behind those elected. For my part, I would say that it is an independent point to get candidates there is a broad consensus about the Storting, and that can enter into their important duties with such support behind them. I refer you to the comments in the vote and recommend this majority recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e211	I broadly agree with the President-in-Office of the Council and the presidency on this matter. For the Nobel Committee, however, I need to promote a solution different from that of the majority. In my view, the election of members of the Nobel Committee requires a different preparation from what we otherwise have, where the party groups themselves propose candidates and the electoral committee present the proposals to the Stortinget, usually without discussion. I believe that we should have a separate selection for the Nobel Committee that the presidency establishes, but that we would like to have members who are not all representatives. There has been a tendency for membership of the Nobel Committee to be seen as an honorary certificate which the groups may use as a concession to party members for long and faithful service. And it's an honor to be appointed as a member of the Nobel Committee. Few decisions taken in Norway during the year receive such international attention as just the peace price. There's almost no one else that gets such attention. A good price in due time can be a peace-building measure in itself, but the price has such a great impact that the Storting should show special attention when choosing members of that committee. All of this suggests a different procedure from what we have today, where the party groups themselves can point out almost anyone to the Nobel Committee. Long and faithful service in a political party should definitely not – should definitely not – be a criterion for being elected to the committee, i.e. long and faithful service in itself. This idea can be stopped by reducing a separate sample – with special expertise in peacemaking and international policy, reviewing proposals for candidates or finding them, and then promoting a recommendation for us in the presidency, which brings the matter before the Storting. Of course, the party groups may propose candidates and the sample may also be with the participation of large-scale representatives. One great advantage of such a solution is that we get a separate body that promotes proposals, not only formally but also effectively, and we get to take into account the Nobel will. The committee will then evaluate candidates together, also in the light of those members of the Nobel Committee who are not in elections, taking into account the overall competence of the Nobel Committee. Today's system doesn't invite you to it. There will be little coordination of the proposals for members between the groups, and although the electoral committee itself has the opportunity to discuss the proposals and to promote other proposals, it is not the practice today. A committee of 37 members – we understand that – is not a suitable forum for such discussions. Finally, I hope several people will see the benefit of such a procedure, and I take up the proposal in the vote. I would also like to ask all the big business representatives in all the big business groups to make a real assessment of this. Is this really a card that the big groups should possess, which they should be able to give out for their own benefit to those they themselves feel should be in such a position? And if I'm going to be so unparliamentary, we've seen a lot of contact around the Nobel Committee. This question of composition has been a lot of discussion around society, and I don't think it serves the Nobel Committee's reputation. A more independent appointment, I believe, deserves the Nobel Committee. A more independent nomination than that the party groups themselves can point out who they want it to be, I would also prefer to claim to be much closer to Alfred Nobel's wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e226	Member of the Presidency, Abid Q. Raja has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e231	I refer first to what the President of the United Kingdom presented as the presidency's main position, and I fully agree with what she said in her speech. Historians have not been able to find a clear answer as to why Alfred Nobel in his will of 27 November 1895 gave the responsibility to appoint a Peace Prize Committee of five members to exactly the Norwegian Grand Prix. We don't know exactly why he did it. But the decision we are making today still finds its place in a natural, historical pattern with regard to the Storting and the Nobel Committee. From the beginning, well 120 years ago, members of the government were just as members of the Nobel Committee, but in 1937, as we know, the Stortinget decided that government councils could not be members of the committee. 40 years later, in 1977, it was also established practice not to elect meeting representatives as members of the Committee, unless they had renounced re-election and had a short period of time left. New 40 years later, in December 2017 – as we remember, there was a lot of discussion about it – the Stortinget reinforced the current practice of 1977, through the decision that neither depositors nor alternates can be elected as members of the Nobel Committee. So, today, we are preparing the basis for today's decision that people with senior management positions in the office – as the President said – or leaders of international organisations with states as members can not be elected as members of the committee. In this case, there is no reason to derogate from the fundamental principle of law that no law, regulation or decision should be retroactively applied. But here is also a message to the historians about the Nobel Peace Prize. The award of the Peace Prize to the International Red Cross Committee in both 1917 and 1944, to Dag Hammarskjöld after his death in 1961, to Nelson Mandela in 1993 – none of these awards or committees that took the award decision shall be considered to be illegitimate or of lesser value, even if it was placed in the committees which distributed those prizes, both government members, major representatives and prominent officials. If the Peace Prize is to maintain its unique status, the Storting must be careful about how we care for the independence of the Committee. But we haven't hastened. Every forty years, the Storting adopted adjustments to the principles governing the composition of the Committee. According to Oxford University Press’s own reference work on international contemporary history, the Nobel Peace Prize is still the world’s most prestigious prize. Today's proposal for a decision, which I expect and hope will be adopted as they are presented in the vote, naturally merges into the series, along with the decision of the Stortinge of 1937 and 1977, and hopefully will prepare the basis for the Nobel Peace Prize to maintain its status as the world's most prestigious prize. I will return to other aspects of the setting in a later article as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e244	Let me first say a few words about the Riksrevision, which is also mentioned in this setting. I still believe that it would make sense to also look at how the Riksrevision is conducted. It's a bit old-fashioned that the head of the college is at the same time the Executive Director. I think it would make sense if you had a board, like the college that is now, but that it was hired by an executive director of the National Audit Office with a relevant background, in a goal position. However, if a new sample is reduced to look at the Riksrevision, it is one of the themes that it would be natural to address in the context of the Riksrevision Act. As far as the Nobel Committee is concerned, there may also be a question of whether legislation should have regulated it rather than through plenary decisions or practices – as Martin Kolberg mentioned earlier was introduced in 1977 – that elected gagning representatives should not be members of the Committee. It was a practice that all parties agreed on and that everyone loyally followed. At the time, there was never any discussion at all about alternates. It was those who were elected representatives in a decision-making process that should not be electoral – and that practice has been followed. At the same time, there has been a rule – and it continues after this setting and the current sample – that the distribution of seats follows the turnout of the party groups at the time of the election of a candidate or a member of the committee. In the 31 years I was a member of the Stortinget, it never occurred that other party groups would interfere in a party's nomination of a Nobel Committee candidate or in other positions that were equally distributed. It was never a theme. It would have been entirely unheard of that another party disagreed with the appointment of a candidate from the party who had the right to have a member. The first time it was mentioned that alternate representatives were also to be mentioned was when my name was launched, in view of the membership of the Committee. Only then did the discussion of alternates appear. At that time, Stortinget decided that alternate representatives should also be exempt from being able to vote for the Nobel Committee. It was given retroactive effect in the process that was already in progress. At that time, the Labour Party or other opposition parties were not concerned that decisions should not be taken retroactively, but today, when a new decision is to be taken, it is explicitly stated that there should be no retroactive effect, so that Thorbjørn Jagland would have had to resign from the Nobel Committee. This is a remarkable principle, which in particular the Workers' Party and its leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, must stand for. When it hits a political competitor, it can give a retrospective effect – that's all right. However, in the case of one's own party member, no retroactive effect shall be given, even – as the prime minister said – in the future, if one is given a leading position in an international organisation, he will have to resign from his membership of the Nobel Committee. I think this principle discrimination is sad, even though it is never so populistic in the Labour Party and Jonas Gahr Støre's eyes. Let me also mention that Abid Q. Raja said that anyone can be elected under the current system, I think it's a little unreasonable – if we look at the Nobel Committee and what it's done. I will also be allowed to remind you that once a party group has been assigned an office and given it to a member of another political party. That was when the party's big group gave its membership in the Nobel Committee to the Christian People's Party fighter Kåre Kristiansen. We don't regret that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e263	The matter we are dealing with today seems to me to be particularly important. I myself have been on the committee that has tabled these proposals, and I myself have formulated some of the proposals that we are adopting today. I'm not going to repeat them, because they were presented by Grand President Wilhelmsen Troeen, and I also think her reasoning was very good. It's important to emphasize at the beginning that I'm going to talk more about the Nobel Committee – and I've been involved most in it – and that the changes we're going to make today in the Nobel Committee, in fact, are not about Carl I. Hagen, but about something far bigger than that. The aim of these changes is to strengthen the peace price. It is to strengthen the reputation of the Peace Prize and the authority and integrity of the Committee. The Peace Prize shall be a real tool in a global struggle for peace and human rights. The purpose of the Peace Prize is not to promote Norway. It shall not be an extended part of Norwegian foreign policy. Nor should it be a place to promote Norwegian interests. That is why it is absolutely essential that the Nobel Committee be genuinely independent, but also seen as independent. This has been the core of the problem. Some peace prizes, both for Obama in 2009, for the EU in 2012 and not least for Liu Xiaobo in 2010, asked whether the Nobel Prize was independent. The peace prize of the Chinese human rights champion aroused enormous reactions. There was a serious concern in Norway, and the Norwegian authorities tried to stress to the Chinese that the Nobel Committee is independent of the Norwegian authorities. It did not listen to China, and it may not be so strange, because if you look at the history of the Nobel Committee, the Nobel Committee is elected by the Stortinget. In the Nobel Committee, there have been a number of standing and former staging representatives over the years. There have been former prime ministers and foreign ministers. There has been a central part of the Norwegian establishment that has had a long foreign policy heritage, which has been in the Nobel Committee for years. Then it might not be so easy to accept, from China, that this is a committee independent of the Norwegian authorities. The changes we are making today make some very concrete formal and real distinctions, which make the Nobel Committee really and formally more independent from the Norwegian authorities. It will be a strength to explain different prices over the years, and it will prevent the Nobel Committee from feeling a kind of anxiety about, for example, the situation. to nominate a dissident in Russia, for fear that it will damage the relationship with Russia, or a warning in the United States, for fear that it might harm our relationship with the United States. We will make the formal distinction between the Norwegian authorities and the Nobel Committee. Then, in addition to the media today, I have made a small invitation to the Nobel Committee. The big deal has nothing to do with how the Nobel Committee promotes the prize or how it puts up the ceremony. My challenge has been that when the Nobel Ceremony itself is broadcast on television to the whole world and the government and the royal family sit in the first row, and it is very difficult to understand, from China, Nigeria or the United States, that this is a price that is independent of the Norwegian authorities. So the dramaturgy itself around the ceremony creates the impression of a bond with the Norwegian authorities. My proposal, my invitation, to the Nobel Committee today has been that they should consider whether the government and the royal family should have a somewhat more withdrawn role during the ceremony itself. I think that is the basis. Such an adjustment could help to strengthen the Nobel Committee and the independence, independence and legitimacy of the Peace Prize.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e278	I'm just going to make a few brief comments about the Central Party's position on the work that has been done. First of all, we think that after last year's discussions on representation in the Nobel Committee, there has been a good and thorough work by the committee, which has also dealt with things other than the Nobel Committee, and which we seem to have made some good assessments relating to future representation. We share the majority of the presidency's view that as a member of the Nobel Committee, one cannot combine it with senior positions in international organisations or international positions, and we also share considerations about a maximum period in the Nobel Committee, which means that one cannot sit for more than a maximum of twelve years. We can't see that lifting the decisions on who is to sit in the Nobel Committee, out of the Storting through a sample, would give some particular added value, and we also believe that when none of us, as was quite rightly pointed out by the representative Kolberg, can really interpret why it says it in the Nobel's will, it's a bit of a funny device to make the kind of selection, which is actually standing a little outside of the Storing itself. So I see that there may be a lot of considerations that one wants to raise in this debate. As regards the background to last autumn’s debate on the representation of the representative of the Storting, one of the topics of discussion was, among other things, that of: that a good could be called up as a meeting representative, which we have also experienced in today's magnificence, and that was something some of us were concerned about in that context. As far as the representative Eide finally said, about the invitation to the Nobel Committee, I would just like to stress that the Central Party does not at all share that call and does not believe that the Storting has anything to do with making such calls to the Nobel Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e291	It is good that we have had a thorough debate on Stortinget's responsibility to respect Alfred Nobel's intention of the Peace Prize. The Nobel Peace Prize was intended to support and promote the peace fighters and their efforts to promote what he called peace congresses, disarmament and the crime of nations. Unfortunately, it is clear today that the Storting does not follow this intention sufficiently. For while people who have fought consistently for disarmament and peace, as Nobel provided, have been ignored, a number of power politicians, who have in practice faced the opposite, have been premiered with the prize. One reason why the Peace Prize has moved so far away from Alfred Nobel’s intention is that the seats of the Nobel Committee have in practice been regarded as a party political exchange and a thank you for the long and faithful service of the major parties, and not a position that should be reserved for people who have both relevant expertise and commitment to peace and disarmament. Therefore, Red joins Abid Raja's proposal that the Presidency establish a committee that recommends to the Presidency who should be elected as a member of the Nobel Committee, so that it is not just the party-political meat weight that determines who will be on the committee in the future. The National Auditorate is an important institution of Norwegian democracy. The Court of Auditors shall monitor the sound and proper use and management of Community funds and in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Board of Governors. Red proposes that the Stortinget ask the Presidency to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend the Bill of the Riksrevision stating that the head of the Riksrevision could not have held the position of Minister of Finance. This proposal is not a criticism of the current head of the National Audit Office, but it is necessary to make laws for the choice of samples to oversee the state in view of situations far more difficult than those we have today. In fact, no department has more direct responsibility for the management of Community resources than just the Ministry of Finance. This responsibility is also affected by the control of the National Audit Office, and therefore, in the future, it will be safest if former finance ministers do not lead the Riksrevision. We see that several national auditors have had a very independent profile in relation to governments based on their own party, but the law must ensure that this independence exists, even in situations with a completely different cooperation climate than we have today. Ensuring that the parliamentary term of the Riksrevision does not coincide with the parliamentary term of the Storting would constitute a barrier to a possible premature interrelationship between national audit and government. Therefore, Red proposes that the Stortinget ask the presidency to return to Stortinget with an amendment to the Bill of the Riksrevision stating that the National Auditors and personal alternates are elected by the Stortinget for six years at a time. So, to the EOS Committee. The committee that controls intelligence, surveillance and security services has a very important job in any democracy. We need intelligence and security services. It is necessary for Norway’s security, but they also do a type of work that can affect the rights of individuals, in the worst case, also democracy as a whole, if there is no strict control. Today, people who have worked in the intelligence, surveillance and security services are excluded from the role of the EOS Committee. In our view, this should also apply to ministers responsible for the political governance of these services. Red therefore proposes that Storting's presidency return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend the EOS Act ensuring that former defence and justice ministers cannot be elected as members of the EOS Committee. I will deal with the proposals that Red is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e304	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the suggestions he made. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e312	The representative Carl I. Hagen said that there was no order in our understanding of the term «retroactive force». I think it is wrong to understand how he puts it. The reason is that Carl I. Hagen at that time was not chosen for anything. It was a process that led to the decision that was taken, that alternate representatives could not enter the committee. It was a decision that was made before Carl I. Hagen or, if any, others were elected under this provision, so retrospectively, there was no current issue in that context, as Carl I. Hagen tries to create the impression. I also refer to what the representative Arnstad said. It is clear that it was a significant argument and an argument which was quite prominent at the time that one can be called in as a fixed meeting when one is an alternate. And we see that today – the representative Hagen is in place, not as a permanent representative, but at least he is quite permanent here now, as I understand it. These two arguments I mean Carl I. Hagen has to pay more attention to than the philosophy he has about the background to why it became like it was in 2017. The second thing I think is very important, and which goes a little under the radar here in connection with the fact that we mostly discuss the Nobel Committee, is the following issue, which was attacked by both the representative Raja and the representative Moxnes: this with the free possibility of nominating the groups. There are expressions here that I don't think they're completely thinking about when they say you can nominate 'anyone'. It is a fundamental democratic principle that the great crowds, who are the elected representatives of the people, have the opportunity to make their own decisions in relation to their elections. I think that is a very important principle that should not be attacked on any point, nor this. The policy is relative, but when the representative Raja believes that a trade committee is more neutral than the Stortinget to believe who is going to sit in the Nobel Committee, I don't understand how he's going to do it. Which professionals are the ones to be admitted? Who's going to decide who's going to take these professionals, and who are they? Are they completely neutral? No, of course they're not. We must maintain the integrity of the national Parliament through the important democratic system we have that the groups have a free basis for promoting their candidates.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e323	Like the representative Kolberg, I felt the need to take the floor and elaborate something at the end of the debate. So, as mentioned in my statement, the committee was unanimous in continuing that the election of members of external committees, selections and names should be based on proposals from the party groups, based on their proportional size in the Stortinget. Then there is some disagreement about the elections of the Nobel Committee. I believe that the Storting is now clearing up and clarifying the rules, including who is eligible for the Nobel Committee. I must also admit that I am responding to the use of the word ‘contact’, for this scheme is intended to ensure that the chosen ones have different backgrounds. That they have a majority behind them, and that these elections are rooted in a democratic process here on the Grand Duchy, in our highest elected body, I believe is a democratic and right process. I just needed to add this to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e330	First to Martin Kolberg, who thought that they had had a proper process: when I'm talking about «retroactive force», it's at the moment a process starts. Then you have a code. But when the party groups are invited to promote candidates, the process is underway. It was only when my name came up that new decisions were taken, and it was actually in the middle of the process. And even though political commentators are often wrong – in this area, the actual consensus is that there was no discussion that alternate representatives could not be elected, until my name appeared as a candidate. Then, in reality, a new rule was created that had retroactive effect. It worked on the process that was already in progress, and it's something completely different. Now it's the same thing; now you're making a new rule that people who have leadership positions in international organisations can't be elected. But it shall not be given retroactive effect this time, for then Thorbjørn Jagland would have to leave the Nobel Committee. So I stand by my assessment of this, that here the Workers' Party has been a populistly led party by Jonas Gahr Støre's side. What the reasons are, we can all just speculate in. If there was a phone from Thorbjørn Jagland, who didn't want me in the committee, we don't know. I will not claim it, but it has been mentioned as an opportunity. I fully agree with Martin Kolberg when he talks about it being better with the current system than with a committee or a selection of so-called professionals, as Petter Eide has suggested, another system. There I fully agree with all the statements made by Martin Kolberg, also underlined by the President of the Grand Duchy. As far as this is concerned with contact with the authorities, I have another experience of the award of the human rights champion in China. I don't think it was the allocation in itself that was the harmful, but the fact that Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and all the leading politicians in the Stortinget cheered on the award. Then it was the officials who made their statement, that was the opinion of the officials, with full support, and that was the official view of Norway on the situation in China and Liu Xiaobo. There's something quite different than what Petter Eide said. There is no reason not to be present during the distribution of the Peace Prize and give them that status, but perhaps leading politicians, and especially government members, could refrain from making comments and thereby make a prize award to the official view of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e341	We have had a fine debate about the Nobel Committee and its composition, and I – unlike what Carl I. Hagen said now – do not stand for this view of having a trade committee. I support the majority position that has been delivered today, and I think it is a fine clean-up. I would warn against this debate becoming a debate on Carl I. Hagen and what happened around him last year. I'm much more concerned with how this feels for a billion Chinese, to be honest. My approach to the debate when we discussed this last year was that the legitimacy of the peace prize should be strengthened, that the authority at the peace prize should be strengthened, that the integrity of the Nobel Committee should be strengthened. Then it was important to take some formal action, so that we made a slightly larger distinction between official Norway and the Nobel Committee itself, and I think that this setting is neatly cleaning up. It makes these distinctions in a good way, in addition to preventing concerns that people in international organisations may have ties to other political processes that make them unable to nominate peace-seekers on a free basis. To the debate on the ceremony itself, for which I have opened a little bit: I fully agree with Marit Arnstad that Stortinget has nothing to do with encouraging the Nobel Committee on how to make the ceremony. No, we're not. Rather, on the contrary – we should stay far away. That's the whole point of this debate. The Nobel Committee shall be independent, so we shall not encourage them to do anything. As politicians, however, we can comment – and I have done so – on the fact that the dramaturgy set up during the ceremony is formally correct, but as it is read from China, and as it is read in the United States and in Africa, it appears that this is the official Norway Peace Prize. It makes it very difficult for people elsewhere in the world – who are not involved in these relatively internal debates we have here – to understand that this is not the official Norway Peace Prize. So it's giving a helping hand to the Nobel Committee to invite them to take a discussion about maybe official Norway should have a slightly more withdrawn role during the ceremony. So there I fully agree with Carl I. Hagen: you should be withholding from automatically praising any peace prize.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e352	Marit Arnstad was concerned and skeptical that a sample could move the decision away from the Stortinget. Then I think you misunderstand what I'm saying. I say the decision will still be in the hall. Setting up a sample would enable the presidency to do, and the sample could propose to the presidency. Then the presidency will be able to give the position to the Storting, and the hall will still decide. That's what I'm proposing. The representative, Carl I. Hagen, was interested in something else in his post. What he was about was that it would be completely unheard of in the past when a party proposed to a candidate that other parties opposed it. I would rather turn it around and say that it is more unheard of that the whole Storting must only accept any candidate proposed by the party groups. It appears obvious that it should not be such that a closed forum in a lot is to be able to decide who is the candidate, and the rest of the Storting must only merge after that. It shouldn't be like that. You have to ask yourself, why should it be like this? Nor did the representative Martin Kolberg and others in the Workers' Party accept this when the Progress Party proposed Carl I. Hagen. That's what we've had in history. Then you wouldn't accept it. Such situations may also arise in the future. Therefore, it is better that that decision is not in the hands of the party groups, but that it is made more independent. It is not natural that this should be within the batch groups and that it should be determined for itself. We're the ones who decided that's the way it should be, and we can also decide something else because now we see that there are challenges to this. So I'm asking Martin Kolberg to turn this case around. I think he sees the principle that this should not be in the party groups. I fear that this is more about the fact that the big parties will have the right to decide for themselves. It gives them the opportunity to choose someone themselves, and they can decide for themselves. Then it's essentially about something else – then it's about power. Then it's about the power to decide, and it's about the prestige. You want to give this prestige to someone who belongs to your own party circle, or someone you find. That's what this is about. Then the parties have their own eyes first, but what they should have in mind first was the Nobel Committee, its independence and its integrity. That is why I ask that my former colleague from the Control Committee, who has had many principal positions in the past, see the principle – that it would have been better that candidates for the Nobel Committee were not appointed according to the size of the party groups, but that it was a selection set up by the presidency, which did a proper job, and who nominated or proposed candidates for the presidency. So the presidency could adjust to the Storting, and the hall could adopt. I think that in the long run would have served Alfred Nobel's will and not least the Nobel Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e363	How little is it possible to do Norway? I come from a pretty small place. I'm used to the fact that the Human Anthropology Association and the 17th May Committee are kind of slipping into each other. But this debate shows how incredibly important it is to have a clear discussion on the distinction between Norway and the Nobel Committee. It's crazy that Norway should be made so small that you can actually use Stortingen's pulpit to talk about your own position in an agency outside Stortinget. That's crazy. We just have to clean this up. I didn't really intend to take the floor in this debate, but it's interesting to be lectured about what is a populist party – by Carl I. Hagen, and I have to ask Carl I. Hagen what he really meant by it. It's not that you can go to the pulpit of the Storting and say that other parties are populist, just because you want to, so I wonder if Carl I. Hagen can come up and define populistism and what it means to be a populist leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e372	I had initially not intended to take the floor in this matter, but the last speaker's posts made me ask for it. I don't think it's – I don't want to use the word 'unwitting' from the representative of Christensen, it may not fit in with the voice of the Stortinge – sadly when she attacks the representative Hagen in such a way as she does. When a representative from the Workers' Party may point out that the representative Hagen has said something about Jonas Gahr Støre leading a populist party or being populist, I do not know whether you should laugh or cry from the Progress Party. Because how many times we've got that accusation, I can't actually count on my two hands. Hagen has given a picture of the situation that arose, how the process was. I myself was central to it as the leader of the Committee on Election of the Advancement Party, and I give my full and full support to the way Carl I. Hagen has perceived and summed up that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e379	No more people have asked for the floor on case No.1.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e395	The president proposed that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each political group and 5 minutes for members of the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e406	The Presidency shall present its position on proposals for information obligations to state councils and state secretaries. In short, the proposal imposes a specific obligation to provide information to communications advisors appointed as state councils or state secretaries. They shall indicate the contracting entities which they have had during the last two years before they acceded to and the tasks involved in the register of duties and economic interests. The majority of the presidency, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Left support the proposal. It is an action that will increase transparency and relevant knowledge of key policy actors. The objective is to help increase confidence in our political system. A similar proposal was put forward in the Grand Duchy in the previous period, and it is therefore particularly gratifying that this time it has been endorsed by a majority of the Presidency. I believe it is obvious that this information has a public interest. It is claimed that the rule makes it difficult to recruit people with a background to counselling for such political activities. I'll say the opposite. By also informing communication advisors openly about their assignments, their professional background becomes widely known, in line with the background of all others appointed. They thus have the same basis for confidence and avoid unnecessary speculation about possible connections they may or may not have. Anyone who has political trust must be willing to stand up with something as curative as what we've been working with, and who we've been working for. In addition, the obligation to provide information is limited to the last two years before accession, and I think it is affordable for everyone. Now it's like most proposals of openness meet resistance, as well as this time. I have noted that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has opposed the proposal and that it is unclear how the rules should be defined. However, I have great confidence that the Department will be able to make the necessary clarifications through regulations. I don't think we should exaggerate the problems that might arise for the communications industry either. The obligation of professional secrecy that protects their customers shall continue to apply. The majority also point out that there is no need to record information on tasks at the level of detail. The limitation against the obligation of professional secrecy, together with this understanding of the obligation to provide information, will ensure that the customers of the consultancy industry are adequately protected against making sensitive information public. It's not essentially a major change in the law we're invited to adopt today, but it's an important change in principle. As politicians, we are about to be open about our experiences, our motivation and other factors that have shaped our positions. A media reality with partly unclear sources needs to be met with more information and more facts. In this way today's proposal is an obvious step in the right direction. I have noticed that there has been a loose proposal for the matter in the Chamber today. The proposal was promoted by the members of the presidency, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen and Morten Wold, saying: «The Government is asked to investigate and, at the hearing, to submit proposals for amendments to the Act on the Registration of Government Members' Roles and Financial Interests. This includes the obligation of information to state councils and state secretaries to record the contents of their former contracting entities and mandates where, during the last two years prior to accession, they have worked to promote political or commercial interests.» The majority is invited here to ask the government to investigate and send proposals for consultation. In principle, it is a good idea to investigate and have a thorough explanation of this, but I would like to hear the motivations of the proposers for this – because this is coming today, and because we have not really discussed it with them. I want to hear what they're adding to this. I would also like to hear the Council of State, because the Council of State has initially opposed this – based on what I can understand. Now there is a proposal on the table for an investigation and for sending it to the hearing. Then it makes sense to know if the council is going to work on this in a forward-looking way, and whether it's going to be a whole-hearted investigation. For example, you want to do this. – it’s important for us, we’ve written some comments on this matter, and I expect the Council of State has seen them, some of them I explained to – taking these comments into account when starting such an investigation, so that we get a broad investigation, and so that we take these comments into account? I would like to hear – as this proposal came to the table now – the reasons for this. I would also like to hear the Council of State say something about the proposal that is now on the table, about investigating and sending it to the hearing, before perhaps I will come back and give an explanation of vote on where the Left will stand in the matter – whether we will support what is in the vote, or whether we will find it reasonable to send the proposal for an investigation to the government, and that it will then be sent to the hearing. I await clarification from the proposers and from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e437	I would like to link some comments to the minority's view in the vote, and I would like to leave it to the Grand President, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, more specifically to justify the resolving of the proposal in his statement. As has already been explained, the proposal for a representative is intended to introduce a special registration obligation for communications advisors appointed as state councils or state secretaries. They shall indicate which contracting entities they have had during the last two years before their appointment and what the tasks have been. Let me first say that we all see the value of openness in political processes. A united presidency determines that openness is valuable in itself. It contributes to increased confidence in decisions taken and in the political system. In other words, when we oppose the present proposal, it is not because we do not value measures that contribute to increased transparency. However, it is not good enough to have a good intention when imposing legal obligations on citizens. Regulatory quality requirements must be set and the action must be targeted and have a clear impact that compensates for any disadvantages. Here, in our opinion, the proposal fails, as the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation points out in his opinion, which is at the time of the vote. In its opinion, the Council of State notes that the proposal has a vague scope, increases the unforeseeability of the advisory industry and only partially targets the already limited target group. The latter is because it is necessary to make exemptions for information subject to the obligation of professional secrecy. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation therefore opposes the proposal, as they did last time, in 2015. In the Right and Advance Party, we agree with the counter performances of the Department. Firstly, a registration obligation which is proposed to interfere with the freedom of contract otherwise in force would in this one, as in other parts of business. Secondly, it is important to point out that in the government there are general rules on stability and instability. This means that if someone has a relationship with a former customer in a way that raises stability issues, it will be assessed on a professional basis and in line with established practice. The registration obligation will not do anything from or to that effect. This is explained in the letter from the department. A third problem is that the law will establish an obligation with unclear boundaries. It's obviously unfortunate in itself. The majority argue slightly against the objections, but refers to the fact that uncertainties can be corrected in regulations. We're going to hope that a little bit along the way is the case, but some random results of the proposal will not be able to be corrected. For example, an adviser who is a lawyer, where client relationships are subject to legal confidentiality, will not be covered by the registration obligation, while advisers with different backgrounds will be included. This is neither an intention nor a desire for discrimination. In summary, the technical objections to the proposal are so important and comprehensive that we, the minority, cannot give it our support. That is why I refer you to the minority's comments in the vote and to the motion for a resolution, as well as to our loose proposal, which calls on the government to investigate and submit to consultation proposals on the law on the registration of the duties and financial interests of members of the government, and invites the Stortinget to support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e462	Member of the Presidency, Morten Wold, has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e467	Of course, I also support the previous speech, by the representative, Mr Wold, but will also, at the beginning of the debate, stress that we should be pleased that Norway is at the top of the world where there is high trust between citizens and politicians and between the citizens and the political and democratic system we have. We should also note that GRECO commends Norway for the efforts made in both the private and public sectors to combat corruption in our country, and for Norway to work to the goal of this all the time. There is also a consensus on the intention behind the proposal – there can be no doubt about that. But there are a number of questions, including: related to the framework of the registration obligation, which remains unexplained. Unlike today's registration obligation, the proposal will not only affect government members and State secretaries personally. It will also affect the advisory, advisory and advisory industries. The proposal to which the representative, Mr Wold, referred, I hope the Stortinget supports, namely that this should be sent to the government with a request for the government to investigate it and send it to the general hearing. It is important that, before Stortinget takes this type of decision, all parties have been heard and all relevant input received. I could imagine dwelling on some of the ambiguities attached to the proposal. It is such that the obligation to register shall apply to members of the Government and State Secretaries who ‘have worked to promote political or commercial interests’. The concepts are not defined in detail and it is unclear which tasks and industries are covered and which fall outside the scope of the registration obligation. Furthermore, it is stated that the obligation to register shall include ‘the content of the tasks’. It is unclear what is meant by the fact that the content of the mission is to be indicated at an overall level and with a brief indication of the theme of the mission, for advisory tasks may be very different in nature also in terms of the complexity of the mission. As the proposal now stands, the understanding and practice of the registration obligation is likely to be shattered. I don't think anyone wants to do that. It is also the case that the obligation to register shall apply to ‘the contracting entities and mandates of the members of the Government and the Secretaries of State have had during the last two years before accession’, but it is not clear how this time limit is to be understood. Could the registration requirement cover missions commenced during the last two years before accession, or also missions carried out or completed during the last two years before accession? There may be a basis here for a broader assessment. Nor does the proposal discuss whether the obligation to register should cover all tasks in the business or only tasks for which the member of the government or the secretary of state has provided advice. In comparison, the legal rules apply to the community — and not just to the individual lawyer. Communication and advisory activities are also usually carried out in a partnership where the economic interests are similar, and then competitive information will often be available to more people in the business. I could mention several aspects of this about which questions will be raised, and where there are uncertainties. Having said all of this, we believe that this proposal deserves a more thorough investigation, which can provide a better basis for decision-making and therefore a more accurate and effective decision. The administrative investigation guide shall precisely facilitate the establishment of a sound basis for decisions on this type of measure taken by the Stortinget. I therefore recommend that Stortinget support the proposal promoted by Mr Wold and signed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e486	First, I want to give the presidency and Abid Q. Raja honor to have gone into this proposal with open eyes. It is no surprise that the parties that support the settings of the majority, in fact, also believe – and have meant for a long time – that the obligation to provide information should be strengthened and expanded. After all, we know history pretty well. In the previous period, we received an expanded disclosure obligation in a number of fields for both depositors and government members in relation to financial interests, incomes, corporate interests, commercial property of significant value, etc. Contracts with previous employers on leave, welfare benefits, pensions, etc. shall be registered. The same applies to contracts with employers for future benefits, etc. There's always a doctor during this work that one should also go into other types of bonds here. The ambiguities identified by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation are ambiguities that are also in today's registration obligation. This is not something that opens now, in this extension of the registration obligation, there are challenges that need to be addressed through regulation and actual practice. This is absolutely crucial for the legitimacy of those who govern the country. Let me remind you that even though we currently have high confidence in Norwegian politicians – we are relatively low when it comes to corruption – it is not a situation that will be forever. We always have to be careful and make sure that we have systems that provide openness, that allow the public to see at any time things that can create bonds, that can create unfortunate situations. Just look at what's happening in Poland and Hungary now: The administration of justice and his administration, they have a completely identical system as the Norwegian one, but all of a sudden, the unmistakable has happened. The question then is whether the undisputed person can happen in Norway as well. It may be, but it doesn't have to happen, but we don't know, so we have to make system for this. This is a term in exactly that. It is obvious that there may be bindings to previous clients and clients that you have had, which should be available in a register and be part of the registration obligation. When it comes to the problem, is this a matter of concern: Should any consideration weigh more heavily than others? Should democracy's need for openness and transparency weigh more heavily or more easily than the consideration of other things? There's a discussion we've had many times, for example. when we extended the registration obligation last. All the time, the concern for democracy has been important. I am now recording that the Left will consider the proposal from Morten Wold and Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen that the government should address this question further. Then, in many ways, comes the big left test as an openness game. If a serious estimate is made that a distribution should be made, it should be made at Stortinget. It should be the Storting that sets the standard in these cases – as the Storing has done otherwise when it comes to registration obligations, and now to the extension of it. It's the Storting that always sets the standard. Why should the Storting give it to the government, so that they can find out about the future for openness about these questions? We know what the government thinks about this question. What can a distinction be made? Let me read from the answer given by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, what the Council of State thinks in this matter: ‘I believe that a proposal that the King of the Council of State may require members of the Government and State Secretaries to register their former tasks and contracting entities, set up against the disadvantages, will not provide the necessary added value in order to strengthen democracy, including the fight against corruption and the promotion of integrity.’ One can't do it any more than this: The government won't have it. That means that if a person seriously considers going into a distribution, one has actually also said that a person doesn't really want it either. I'm excited about what Left lands on this issue, and whether they'll actually keep the tab high as one of the opening parties they've claimed to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e510	The transitions between politics and the lobbying industry, the turnaround between politics and PR, are actually a quite new trend among top politicians in Norway. In a historical perspective, the change is clear. In the post-war period, there was a minority of politicians who went to a profession different from what they originally came from when they left the policy, and among those who changed their pasturage, they tended to move to leadership positions in the public sector. The political elite of the day changed slightly into political capital in executive positions in business or in the public relations sector – but today’s politicians are of second caliber. Those who now leave the political elite are getting high in society, and many are also becoming lobbyists for strong interests. Everyone in this room knows that the power of the ballot shall be a heavy counterweight to the power of the banknote, but the rule of the people is weakened when the leaders of the board are sold to the highest bidder. For what happens to the influence of people most when top politicians are going to be the leaders of the people one day and the next day appear as the servants of the money force, not least when they go back to politics and keep secret what money interests they have recently worked for? This is good news for capital forces that operate outside the public spotlight, but it's bad news for most people. In the book Where Other Tens, who came out in the fall, we could read about how a now-constituted Vice President in the Progress Party went from politics to the PR industry and back through the same swing door. It may be tempting to make a point of how the party for people most replaced an industrial worker from Forest with the career lobbyist Sylvi Listhaug from First House, but it is the Advance Party's choice who they want as their leaders. What is most relevant to the proposal we are considering today is where Sylvi Listhaug is. In the book she writes about when she joined as Minister of Agriculture and Food, and that the speculations were whether she had worked for Rema 1000. Here, Listhaug politely jumps over the fact that these speculations actually voted, that we got an agricultural and food minister who had recently gone through the government platform on a mission from Rema 1000, via First House. It is also known that the same politician had shortly before been bought and paid by the Norwegian Sports Association to influence the party to which she herself was assigned to the central government. This is not to be read in the book, but it underlines why there is a need for regulatory regulation to ensure the transparency of policy-makers in paid capital power and special interests. Let's call it a "Lex Listhaug". It must be allowed to say that the presidency has taken a good time to deal with this proposal. Red promoted a similar proposal almost a year ago. The Labour Party voted against. They wanted a full committee reading first. Despite the fact that a fairly similar proposal was thoroughly reviewed in the previous magnification period, it has therefore taken some time. Meanwhile, we got a new First House minister into the government when PR agent Tor Mikkel Wara took over the staf stick from Listhaug. The party of progress is obvious – more than any other government party – the party of lobbyists most. The best thing would be if today we could put a dot for an era of First House ministers, like Sylvi Listhaug and Tor Mikkel Wara. But Erna Solberg obviously does not care about the turning door between politics and the lobbying industry – on the contrary. If the bulk of population ensures increased transparency in the future, it is at least progress. Where we see that the Progress Party and the Right as usual are calling about the power of money and their interests, it is gratifying that the Left, at least in the setting, breaks with its government partners in this matter. Do we now scan the beginnings of political integrity and openness in front of the positions and the horse dealer? At least we get to hope that this germ of principle doesn't fall already today, just to come to parties that may now lose face, and that disagree with the proposal, to meet. So we hope that the Left sticks to the principles and does not bend the neck of the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e527	When the Labour Party gets the last five-minute post in this round, it's because the Labour Party didn't intend to say anything in this case. And the reason why the Labour Party had not intended to say anything in this case is that Abid Q. Raja from the Left did so well for what is both the vision of the Workers' Party and the vision of the plurality of the presidency in the election. It is true that all of us who have political trust must be willing to stand up with something as curative as what we have worked with, and who we have worked for. The obligation to provide information is beyond the limits of the last two years before accession, and I believe that I am quite superior to all those who are involved in the government. What's going on right now, and we're invited to join today, is not a change in law with a big line, but it's an important change in principle. As politicians, we are about to be open about our experiences, our motivations and other relationships that have shaped the positions we stand for, and a media eye with partly unclear source usage must be met with more information and with more facts and openness. In this way, today's proposal is an obvious step in the right direction. I am a little surprised at the loose proposal now being put forward, for those who have put forward the proposal will not do so. They do not want this information obligation for government councils and state secretaries, and they want you to work out and send something on a new hearing. As the representative of Moxnes just said, this proposal has now had a year to mature – a lot of the time in government, so I can't quite see how much more you can figure out by letting this go on again. I thought this loose proposal seemed very loose. The Working Party and I are in the configuration and expect to have multiples in the room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e534	The proposers believe that there should be a legal basis for the King in the Council of State to require members of the Government and State Secretaries to register former contracting entities where they have worked to promote political or commercial interests. Such a proposal was also made in 2014. However, this proposal goes beyond the previous one, because the content of the mandates must also be reported and published. This means that information will be reported and published on a larger scale. I have previously said that the information can neither alone nor collectively justify conflicts of interest or instability. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is responsible for ethical guidelines for civil servants. These apply to political leadership. It is clear from the guidelines that the main rules for ensuring confidence in general government are the rules on the reliability of the administrative law § 6. For Governments, the rules of the Administrative Act apply directly in their capacity as Heads of State. As a member of the Government, certain non-statutory requirements for stability apply. We have a long and well-established practice for government members to step aside from issues where there can be doubt about stability. We also have rules on beekeeping, quarantine provisions when transferring to other activities and banning gifts in the service. Overall, these rules shall help to ensure that policy-making is not influenced by inconsequential considerations. For many years, there are no known cases of corruption or suspicions of corruption among politicians at national level — and fortunately so. That doesn't mean, of course, that we're immune to corruption, or that the high trust will pass. I therefore share the intention of the proposers that it is important to introduce measures that can help maintain or strengthen trust. Transparency is the main instrument. However, such measures must be justified on the basis of professional considerations and professional needs. So the benefits should be greater than the disadvantages. In a letter to Stortinget, I have shown that the proposal has a number of negative side effects, including: in the form of negative effects on freedom of contract, distortions of competition, unnecessary red tape and, most importantly, uncertainties surrounding the understanding of the rules. Apart from the claim that it ‘has a clear public interest to know about this kind of advisory activity when government/secretaries make important decisions in their fields’, I have not seen so far a single argument that there is a real need for this action. The point of the registration obligation is that there should be transparency about ownership and financial ties exercised at the same time as the depository office or as a member of the government. This is considered to be the source of conflicts of interest, i.e. a «servant of two masters» simultaneously. The applicable regulations and related laws cover all relevant aspects. The duties and financial commitments concluded before accession will be subject, not to a conflict of interest in the normal sense, but more to a question of loyalty. I do not share the view of the majority of the presidency that this is an entirely ‘natural further development of the rules’. I do not see that people coming from the communications industry are different in a way that defends the introduction of specific laws on registration and transparency. In order to increase citizens’ confidence in politicians, measures should be put in place that are effective, neutral and have a broad impact. This proposal imposes a separate registration obligation on those who have promoted ‘political or commercial interests’, as it refers to, in the last two years. It can be seen as a signal that the legislator considers that the risk of conflicts of interest and corruption is higher among some occupational groups than others. It is unfortunate and cannot be justified. The proposed obligation to register is limited to matters covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. The scope of this limitation to legal confidentiality is unclear. The majority assume that business secrets are not covered by the registration obligation. I know no obligation of professional secrecy other than that imposed by Section 13, first paragraph, No. 2nd@item: inlistbox However, the obligation of professional secrecy in Section 13 of the Administrative Act applies only to information that he becomes aware of in the service, and thus not before accession. The present proposal, therefore, is most likely not in keeping with the wishes of the majority for the protection of business secrets. I believe, therefore, that the reasons for the proposal are good, but that there are a number of uncertainties, and I hope that the bill will be sent to the government for further investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e563	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e568	I note that the Council of State says that it has not seen a single argument that there is a need for this bill – not a single argument. I must remind the President that the Right Party and the Progress Party have been against absolutely any proposal to extend the openness and registration of the interests of big business politicians and government members in the last five years, and it is possible that we can draw the timeline further backwards. So it's really no surprise that this also comes from a Right State Council. But if this is adopted, will the government introduce these rules for its members of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e573	I'm not going to answer for the last five or ten years – I've been responsible for this for the last ten months, maybe eleven months. I believe that openness and trust are crucial. I also believe that, to the extent that situations arise, we should, of course, discuss the need for this. But I have replied that we have not seen that there has been a situation where the need for this has been present. That's the background for my answer now. Whether we want to introduce this: it's like a government does what the government requires the government to do, and it's about it. Then, as the representative knows for sure, such questions become a decision of the Prime Minister and not of a Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e580	I thank you for your answer. It's a shame – one should follow the decision of the Stortinget. So a question that relates to a not having seen a single argument that there is a need for this proposal. I think that was approx. the contents of the opinion as we extended the registration obligation in the previous round in relation to financial interests, etc. Does the Council of State still insist that one does not see the need to extend the registration obligation, so that the public can check that there are no bindings of different kinds to the highest elected in the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e587	I just have to stress that I mean trust and transparency is important. But when you put in place rules that have as far-reaching significance as what I have explained, it must be a basis for that, and it must go beyond what is public interest. The fact that you are interested in knowing must be because you see a need to reveal a suspicion of corruption or that kind of incident. We have no such situation. There has been no situation in which we suspect that someone has gone beyond their interests. At least I have not registered it. Then I think it's also striking, as old – very old – lawyer and as a politician for many years, that my experience is that the profession I've met most often in planning and construction is lawyers. They're also doing the exact same job, but they're not doing the same thing. There is one profession and its scope is unclear. Then I think it's unfortunate. Then I think you should take the time to go through this thoroughly and try to find rules that are broad and neutral.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e594	One last line: of course, it's the reverse of what the state council says here. As a very old philosopher myself, I know that the situation we see today can be quite different tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. The systems we create here are, in fact, to ensure openness, to ensure that the public has control and transparency of different types of bonds that politicians have, even in the future, to prevent bad situations from occurring, and not least because there are speculations about these questions. It in itself means that it should be in the absolute interest of everyone to have a system that guarantees real openness. Doesn't the Council of State see the need for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e599	I don't think you'll be able to assure yourself of all kinds of situations. I do not think that is the intention of legislation or legislation. I think it is important to have legislation that has legitimacy, that can be practised and that people understand. My example instead of the lawyers is real. Lawyers meet a lot in municipalities and departments to argue, for example: for construction works. Does not the representative see that we are not going to inform about this profession, but about advisers? What's the difference between that and that? What are we going to do when these rules are as unclear as they are? I think you should take the time precisely because you are not in a situation where this has any urgency. This is a desire to improve the rules. That's good, but then you should take the time to do it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e604	Since the Council of State asked direct questions to the representative of Fylkesnes, the counties must be allowed to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e609	I mean, the confidentiality lawyers have with their clients is an extremely important aspect of our entire legal system. There is a basis for the whole process against the courts and is – it also admits SV – such an important consideration that it should not have to succumb to democracy's need for openness around binding to clients and customer relationships, etc. That's the background for one to go nuanced into this, but to establish as a main principle that there should be openness around customer lists and former clients, think I'm just to prevent things from happening – or that things happen, what do we know – in the future, and to create legitimacy. It should be in the interests of absolutely everyone to have such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e614	This sounds simple, but it's not like that in reality. I have a deep disagreement. A hot defender of the professional secrecy of lawyers – of course I am, but I do not see that this proposal will contribute to the wishes you have for transparency and trust, because it has more problems than it has solutions. We should go through this very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e619	I will soon give an explanation of vote to the Left, so I will ask for clarification, so that I understand this correctly. In the solution proposed here now, the government was asked to investigate this and send it out to the hearing. I just want to hear if the Council of State wants to make this a good and thorough investigation, and that you will take into account the comments that the majority have originally written, which can contribute to transparency. I understand that you can initially have a different political view. There is now one thing, but I would still like to be quite clear, before we give our explanation of vote, that this will be a broad and good investigation where the majority comments will be taken into account, and that you will follow up that bit. Normally, the answer will be that the Council of State will always follow the decision of the Grand Council, but since there are a number of different political views in this matter, it is particularly important to know how the Council of State will deal with this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e629	In my answer I have explained the government’s view of this matter – that is quite correct. But I also record that a majority in this room has a different view. Then I think it's wise to deal with that majority and get a thorough investigation. I understand what is the motive behind the proposal, and then I think someone now sees that it has so many ambiguities that you should go through it thoroughly. It's about getting the best possible legislation, the greatest possible legitimacy and the greatest possible understanding of what you're doing. This sounds very easy to introduce. I think it's going to be hard to practice, and then we're all interested that this is done in the best possible way, and then of course we will.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e634	Those who enter the government manage a trust that is great. It is the highest trust unions in Norwegian politics, and we depend on the fact that there is great trust in them, even among people. When, in the past, these persons have worked for the capitalist forces without indicating who they have recently lobbied, it is obvious to most, at least outside the Right Party and the Advance Party, that it can weaken the confidence of the same politicians when they are in the government apparatus and will deal with matters that may also come within the previous field of public relations. I wonder if the Council of State – given the example of Sylvi Listhaug as lobbied for Rema 1000 before she became a food minister – can see that it is an advantage for the opening up of democracy and the confidence of politicians that we get transparency about former customers, and that it will strengthen the legitimacy and trust of the government apparatus.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e639	To be absolutely honest, no, I don't see it. I see that Moxnes has unlikely little enthusiasm and respect for a profession in society. Well, it's basically just the public servants who deserve his respect. The truth is that the description of the job done in the hidden is quite common in business. Business secrets are very common. It is also the case that lawyers, as I have said sometimes now, have imposed the obligation of professional secrecy on them. There's a job done. You get paid for a job, and customer relationships are secret. That's normal. So the question is, are we going to open up for a profession to have completely different rules for this? I think we should go into that more thoroughly and make a more thorough assessment of it, without having a simplified and simplified debate on it. This matter is too important for it, and I think we need something that is practical, and that has legitimacy and understanding, in addition to these headlines about who you have worked for and not. You could use the exact same example of another, a lawyer who came into the government, who has been charged with private business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e646	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e653	It was the representative of Knag Fylkesnes who made me take the floor. He talked about bindings to former contractors. Then I would like to ask the question: why should you have any interest from former clients, former clients, former customers? I can't believe it's going to be a problem. If you have a bond while working, you have to take care of the interests, because that's what you're paid to do. But when the mission is finished, it's over. I think there's a significant reconstructed situation here. What you might want to look at is existing bonds. The Moxnes talked about the capital forces and the special interests. Then I could find something on the other side. Capital forces are one side, and then we might have the trade movement on the other side. There's always a certain discussion. What about the Workers' Party's real, sustained commitment to the Landsorganisation – where we also have examples that the Landsorganisation has threatened to hold back money if the Workers' Party does not change its political views? It was about the sickness pay scheme, which was a debate about when Jens Stoltenberg was Prime Minister and Gerd-Liv Valla was the LO leader, and she threatened to hold back money for the election campaign of the Workers' Party if they did not stop what State Council Hansen had said in the public room about changing the health pay scheme. I think we could say that you're constructing problems here. Lawyers, advisers, communication staff and others have a job, but when they're done with the assignments, why in the world should they feel some commitment to a closed relationship? I can't understand that. I don't think that's right either. Then we will not have a system where we deprive a large number of people of career opportunities and the possibility of entering into politics, which you will do if the bill that is now on the table is adopted, and if the Prime Minister uses this opportunity that you want to legislate. But at least I'm very happy that it's a "can" and not a "shell".
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e662	Now we have listened and heard objections and advice and good reasons why such an investigation proposal can be correct and why it should be sent to the hearing. When I then gave my explanation of vote and made a recommendation to the Group of the Left, I have stressed just these reasons for what an investigation can answer. The proposal that now comes from the Right and the Advance Party goes further than they have been willing to stretch earlier, and that is to the extent a positive signal. If, through such an investigation and consultation, it can contribute to greater parts of the Storting gathering behind any legislative change in this field, it will also help to give more legitimacy to the outside, so that there will be a greater degree of respect for this type of transparency than if this magnification splits in the middle. If you force the government to implement something, it might help make some noise out there, and maybe you don't fully understand why you're going to help create this transparency. If we are able to communicate this in a better way, we are more united – that a greater part of the Biggest stands together, potentially that there will be a unanimous decision after such an investigation and consultation, I think it will give greater respect to the Biggest's decision when we do this as individuals will be able to experience this as an intervention. Politically, I think you shouldn't experience it this way, but there will still be people who will be able to experience this as intervening, as we just heard from the previous speaker. It'll be a percentage that will represent that view. I have also heard that the government, at the Council of State here, has said that it is wise now to have this investigated, taking into account all these arguments which were partly raised by the Council of State itself and partly by the proposers. I also think that when the government says it would be wise to do an investigation, so that you get all the benefits and disadvantages on the table and get all the sides of this, it is something the Storting will do wisely to listen to, so that you get all the answers before you make a decision. My recommendation to the Group of the Left will be that we wait for further investigation and consultation, and that we vote in favour of this proposal which has been promoted as a loose proposal in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e673	That's how easy it was to tilt the Left of the Transparency Line – a small proposal for a ruling from a government that doesn't want to implement this system, which has been against all extensions of registration obligations and openness in recent years, and for which Left has previously voted against and achieved success, even with hardly any majority. But this time Abid Q. Raja in the presidency, and a little suggestion of a settlement was enough to tilt the left of that stick. It's interesting to look at Left, which has a long, long tradition – proud traditions, I would say – to be the party that promotes greater openness, which has wanted lobby registers, which on every occasion have proposed this on Storting because one thinks it will strengthen legitimacy, and which has been willing to go in scarce numbers to get it through. A user wants to set a default. But now we have in the presidency of Abid Raja, which can be tipped off by a single distribution and release proposal, which this represents. I'm very little impressed with the treatment to the left, but at the same time I have to admit that it doesn't surprise me, it was actually something that was in the air, and that showed that here left could once again go on chords with its own values – once again they leave. And like a philosopher said, when you look down in the abyss, the bottom line looks at you.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e680	I'm neither an old lawyer nor an old philosopher, but I'm an old newspaper reader. I'm going to deal with it that in many ways is the most important thing for us, that we should represent the people, and that the people look at us. I have registered that there have been quite a number of comments about trust in wholesalers lately. We may be in danger of getting a little catchy reputation, and the plentiful rumor can be referred to travel bills, it's been about caves and exceedances, it's been about party budgets – one after the other. Perhaps it's just now a good timing to go in for a suggestion that, among other things. The representative Knag County is behind, and as they – I was saying – the best and the most open parts of the presidency are behind. To the representative Carl I. Hagen: I think it is rather strange that he makes expressions like that past bonds are completely uninteresting and mean nothing – what matters is current bonds. How naive is it going to be? I actually don't think it's right to say that one is naive either, for an old political ring reef like Carl I. Hagen I think I know that past bonds can be absolutely crucial for current bonds. Of course they are. Finally, I have been listening to this debate – without having been in a committee for this debate – and I have to say that it is disappointing to listen to the Left, which falls from the rise. It's like the representative, Knag Fylkesnes, says, "The left has had, and they're sung a little bit, a tradition of transparency, and then you fall off and fall in the rise. I've seen it in other areas too, it's very sad that – I shouldn't say that the table catches, but – the government catches and the participation catches in this way. It's sad to see, and it's disappointing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e691	Abid Q. Raja has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e696	Now a little bit of big words are being used here, "floppy" and "floppy of the stick" and that we're being sidetracked by the government that wants to investigate, etc. Now the Left is well to mark part of this government, so that the Left along with the government will help to figure this out, I don't feel like I'm being tipped off by the stick. We have listened critically to the recordings that have come, and the investigation proposal that has been put on the table, and have heard what the proposers themselves say about this. I have also asked the council here about how she and the government will behave after this. What I've heard is that you have to make a thorough assessment, thorough investigation, of this. So SV calls this a simple investigation, while I heard the council say yes to a thorough investigation. I think we should be wise and wait for this investigation, the hearing, and thus contribute to creating greater legitimacy and understanding for this. I believe that it is wiser than to reject the government itself when they ask to have this investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e701	Torgeir Knag County has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e707	This government has actually settled it already, they've sent a letter to the presidency where they come in with the mean and say assessment of the whole of this proposal. It's all done. The sitting government, which includes the Left, has already said what they think about this proposal. It is not that a sent message is personally from a state council unchecked at all. What goes to the Storing is the entire government behind it, including the Left. That means that here left had the possibility to run a principal race, as it's done for years, decades after decades. So here it's behind Abid Q. Raja, on his shoulders, a proud tradition of people and politicians who have run openness, more democracy, more transparency and more legitimacy in political processes. That's the shoulder representative Raja is now jumping off when he leaves to the government to figure out what they've already given up. They're just saying that this won't provide a democratic added value, that's what's disappointing in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e712	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e730	The background of this interference is serious. The world is experiencing a loss of nature that we have not seen in human history. The worst thing for us is that the natural loss takes place on an equal scale in Norway. Not everyone is aware of it at all. The worst part is that incorrect land disposal is the main reason for this. And even worse: a liberalized expansion and degradation is a wild policy of this government, and I'm going to come back to that. So the world experiences a historical loss of nature. Every year we lose about 2 pst. of the animal life of the world. I ask those who are still in the hall to listen. We lose 2 pst. of the world's animal life annually. Since 1970 — during my adult life — the world’s animal populations have been reduced by an average of 60 pst. It is one of several dramatic findings that emerges from the World Natural Fund's new Living Planet Report. Many have heard of the importance of insects lately, at least the importance of bees has been heard. Last year there was an alarming report saying that even in protective areas in Germany, more than three out of four flying insects have disappeared in less than 30 years. We simply have to take this over. As the populations sink, the species also die out at high speed. Some kind of natural rate, if we can use that expression, suggests that it goes about. 600 years between each time a mammal dies out. Today, the rate of extinction is perhaps a thousand times faster. At the same time, it is becoming less and less wild. 10 pst. of global wilderness areas have disappeared in 20 years. Rainforest shrinks - almost 20 pst. of the Amazon has disappeared in 50 years. The loss of diversity is greatest in lakes, rivers and wetlands. On average, the stocks of fish and other animals surveyed in the freshwater systems have decreased by 81 pst. since 1970. In the sea is the decline of 36 pst., while it is 38 pst. ashore. As if this is not enough: there are also other threats. Today, about 90 pst. of the world's seabirds plastic bits in the stomach, against 5 pst. in 1960. One of the reasons for the species’ decline is our cumbersome treatment of garbage — it ends up in the sea. The 20 Aichi objectives – the sustainability targets – were adopted in Aichi in Japan in 2010 and address everything from preventing the eradication of species to reducing pollution and taking care of ecosystems that are vital to us humans. Most of the Aichi bio-diverse targets are not on track to be achieved by 2020. It is now noted with deep concern, as it states, that most of the UN's sustainability targets cannot be achieved by 2020, in the draft resolution of the ongoing UN conference on natural diversity in Sharm el Sheikh, Egypt. There's our Environment Minister Ola Elvestuen right now. The loss of nature is happening at the same rate here with us. In Norway, at least 114 species have died in the last 200 years. Every five species in Norwegian nature are in greater or lesser danger of dying out if we do nothing, according to the Norwegian Red List of Endangered Species. Enterprise policy, energy policy, transport policy, municipal planning, agricultural and outdoor policy and recreation are examples of policies that affect nature. Not least, thoughtful and long-term land planning is essential for the loss of nature, species and cultivated land. The government's transformations into natural policy were announced. Prior to the 2013 elections, the then Prime Minister’s candidate, Erna Solberg, gave a full interview on land policy and management in the VG. There she made several statements about a notified government policy, and much of it has been implemented. She said, ‘Yes, we want a review of the Natural Diversity Act. It's a big obstacle. That doesn't mean we're not too nature-diversity. But that means that the reasons sometimes have to be weighed better than they do today. There is a need to see whether there are too large powers in the law that can block projects.» In that interview she also announced her grip to make it easier to build into the beach zone and use snowmobiles and helicopters in nature. It is also part of the government's wave of liberalisation and liberalisation. I will promise that these intentions have been followed up with serious grips with the Right in the government chairs. It started pretty soon after the first blue-blue government was formed. The final decision on objections, including: The county has set foot for degradations and expansions, was transferred from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Local Affairs – an incredibly strong grip in itself. Now there is no longer any overall environmental concern; there are others that should weigh more heavily. About the same time, in 2014, circulars and letters went out to, among others. The county, where fewer objections were requested and more according to municipal assessments. A new similar circular came in 2017. In other words, there are clear indications that municipalities should be given greater freedom, less reprisals after adopted laws adopted by this Stortinget. This applies, for example: the interpretation of the Nature Diversity Act. These grips have had the desired effect. It has become more liberal, more open to development and degradation, supplementation and fragmentation of species' habitats, just to mention something. I can mention a few-three examples of this: In 2017, the government of the Ministry of State of the South Trondelag rejected the opposition to the completion of the Gulf of Breckstad and approved the conversion of the spring into a feeding area. The State showed, among other things: that the Bay of Brekstad is of great value as a bird's rest area and that the municipality has good access to other areas of activity, but was therefore not heard. The supplement would affect 75 different species of birds that have used Brekstad spring to find food. I can mention an example from Flå in Hallingdal that is very familiar. Little Få has 1 000 inhabitants and 700 km 2 countries. It's an environmental lighthouse, it's said, but they have 430 km of forest roads, and there are at least 1,700 cabins there today. Then come the plans for the Turufjell construction with 1,800 new cabins and alpine facilities. And it's going to be built close to Vassfare Landscape Protection Area. The county would not object, or protest, since they had done so in another extension case in the municipality earlier. They did not think they could raise any new objections – it had well been rejected again, they thought. But they came up with harsh criticism. They say, among other things:\t\t You ‘On the basis of central and regional leadership on recreational development planning and with a focus on sustainable land management, the State will strongly advise against the proposed development areas of Turufjell.’ Then it goes on, the local community's eagerness goes on, the area is being subjected to excavators, and it's being expanded. That's how it's bit by bit in Norwegian nature today. In Norway, it is now about the same. half a million cabins combined. Statistical central agency said last year that 45 municipalities have more cabins than dwellings. We need an overview planning and a new debate on cabin construction here in the country. Many people experience that it is now that it goes over the stick and stone with Norwegian cabin construction. In the last four years of the red-green reign, 46 psts were taken. of the objections raised. Now, in the first four years of blowing government time, it's 22 pst. of the objections raised. In that case, the question to the State Council is: does the Council of State agree that the measures taken by the government lead to a greater reduction of Norwegian nature? And: Will the Council of State change the practice, or evaluate that practice, in the light of the experience we have seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e781	Norway manages amazing natural values. For the government it is important to take care of Norwegian nature. We want to ensure that the generations that come after us will also benefit from the values and experiences that Norwegian nature offers today. Loss of natural diversity is one of the major environmental challenges of our time and must be addressed by local and national measures. In 2015, the government presented a message to the Stortinget about natural diversity. It was the first time in 14 years that such a message was made. The main actions in the Communication were widely endorsed by the Stortinget, and we are now following up with concrete actions. Forest protection is particularly important to ensure Norwegian natural diversity and to preserve endangered nature. In five years, the government has turned off nearly 2 billion. kr for forest protection and protected 369 forest areas. Of these, 322 areas are voluntary protection of private forest. Since 2013, forest protection has increased from approx. 2.5 pst. to close to 3.4 pst. of Norway’s productive forest area. Forest protection has been proposed to continue at a high level also in 2019. It is in order to follow up the decision of Stortingen on the protection of 10 pst. of the forested area, as also indicated in the Jeløya declaration. However, much of the land in Norway is managed by planning according to the Planning and Building Act. The municipality is the primary planning authority and shall balance the use and protection of the areas. Consequently, the municipalities are responsible for ensuring national, regional and local interests in the planning process. The government believes that closeness between those who decide and those who are affected by the decisions is an important democratic value. The government will therefore reduce state detail management and give more authority to local democracy, including in planning and development matters. Local knowledge is also important in order to balance good interests and considerations. The state has to play a team with the municipalities. Government sector authorities have professional competence that municipalities need in their planning. However, there is not always enough dialogue and participation when different interests are against each other. Objections are therefore a safety valve in the planning system, which shall ensure that national and significant regional interests can be safeguarded where necessary. Various sectoral authorities have been given the opportunity to raise objections to municipal plans within their areas of responsibility. Local government organisation, KS, has been critical of state opposition practices. In a study conducted for KS in 2012, 80 pst meant. of the elected representatives of the municipalities that objections impose too much restrictions on municipal autonomy. Government agencies were criticised for using objections to press the municipalities into dialogue and to promote unwarranted or conflicting objections. It was therefore necessary to take action to preserve the legitimacy of the opposition institute and to strengthen local democracy. Since 2013, the government has been working systematically to strengthen the dialogue between the state and municipalities in planning matters and to reduce unnecessary use of objections, which was also the focus of the red-green government. In August 2013, the Ministry of the Environment issued a circular containing guidelines on objections to planning matters under the Planning and Building Act. The circular was updated and continued by this government by letter dated 18 February 2014. At the same time, it was stressed that the importance of local democracy should be strengthened in the future. The circular states that important interests should be identified as early as possible and that early participation and dialogue should take place. Objections shall be raised only where necessary and justified in concrete terms. In 2013, a pilot scheme was set up in which the State was given the task of coordinating objections from other government authorities to municipal plans. The County shall contribute to the resolution of conflicting objections and may cut off objections that are not well-founded. The evaluation of the experiment shows that it has provided a more effective and better state involvement in planning processes. In the light of the good experience, the Ministry has decided to make the scheme permanent from 2018. The last counties will be incorporated from 2019 onwards. On a proposal from the government, the Stortinget decided to make the Regional Plan Forum mandatory from 2017. Regional Planning Forum is an arena where state, regional and municipal interests are identified early in the planning process. Objections can then be avoided to a greater extent; the Ministry will follow up with guidance on regional planning forums to help eliminate the positive effects. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation is working closely with the Departments of the Sector in order to improve the practice of the Opposition Institute. Departments have followed up on defining national interests within their responsibilities. In January 2017, the Ministry of Climate and Environment issued a circular clarifying national and significant regional environmental interests. The circular provides guidance on the basis of which to object. Clearer signals make it easier for municipalities and the sectoral authorities concerned to follow up national policies. Thus, conflicts with environmental interests can be identified and resolved early in the planning process. Through state planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport planning, the government has provided clear leadership for the spatial planning of the municipalities. The guidelines provide for the development of compact cities and agglomerations – in order to reduce transport needs and to promote more sustainable development. The guidelines help to dampen the pressure to reduce important agricultural, natural and open air areas. The county councillors, county councils and civil society councils are working closely with municipalities to follow the guidelines. The reporting by municipalities to the SSB through the KOSTRA system shows that the share of regulatory plans met with objections has declined significantly since 2013. The last two years are only 19 pst. of the regulatory plans met with objections. However, the proportion of spatial plans at municipal level encountered with objections has remained stable at around 50 pst. for the period 2008 to 2017. I believe this shows that the conflicts are now being dealt with and resolved at an overall level. It is also the arena where the most important decisions for natural diversity are taken. Every year the municipalities adopt lower than 2000 spatial plans. Very few of these – no more than 25–30 each year – are decided by the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation because the parties have not been able to reach a local agreement. These are issues where national and local interests conflict or differing national interests. Under the previous government almost 60 pst. of the objections raised. We believe it was too easy to get through with objections. Since 2013, the Ministry has confirmed the municipality's decision in well half of the cases we have been dealt with. In the rest of the cases, we have taken the objection as a follow-up or arrived at a good intermediate solution. Out of a total of 128 objections cases, this government has dealt with 25 issues in which natural diversity has been the theme of the objection. In eight of these cases, the Ministry has taken the objection into account, in part, in four cases. In the other matters, other interests have weighed heavily. I believe this shows that the government takes care of natural diversity in a balanced way in our opposition practices. It also gives signals to the municipalities and the relevant sectoral authorities to do the same. A few examples: In April this year I said no to regulate a 373 dekar large area for mass reception and nutritional purposes in the municipality of Sørum. Both the NVE and the State objected to the area for reasons of natural diversity, ravine valleys and watercourse nature. This autumn I addressed an objection from County of Oslo and Akershus to the municipal sub-plan for the Lysaker and Sørkedal watercourse in the municipality of Bærum. The objections concerned six areas of natural diversity of national value within existing residential property. Four of the objections were raised and the areas were allocated to green structures. I believe that the government's work on improving the planning processes has been successful. We see that state and municipality now cooperate better and can come up with good solutions without going the long way to object. The work has led to a greater focus on solutions both at local and state level, and overall treatment is both better and more effective. I think that benefits local democracy, natural diversity and other social interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e823	I thank Melande for answers and comments, although I do not hear that she answers my question and my challenge. The question and the challenge was whether she sees the liberalisation that the government has implemented, because we must agree that the regulations that have been implemented have led to liberalisation, faster procedure, less governance, less planning at the local level. I never got an answer to that. I described the situation and how serious it is, with both an international and national rug, in terms of the loss of nature, cultivated land and species. But there is little evidence that world leaders, and especially the right-wing populistic leaders, are concerned. Brazil's newly elected President Bolsonaro has said that he will make it easier to breed rainforest in the Amazon. President Trump's vision of oil and gas until national parks, for example, are well known. And we know that in Poland, the government has permitted the highest in the Bialowieza forest, which is Europe's last large natural forest area, and which is listed on UNESCO's World Heritage List. That's what I could still have. So we have our own right-wing government with the populist Progress Party well inside. But it's also a big blow to the government. Minister for Climate and Environment Ola Elvestuen said to the evening post this weekend that he wants a new global agreement that is as important to nature as the Paris agreement is to the climate. It's important to nature, he says, and to meet the climate goals. Almost 30 pst. ‘Amongst things to stop global warming of 1.5 degrees can be arranged with better natural management,’ says Elvesuen. On the question of why the world has not managed to do so much after the Rio Conference in 1992, Elvesuen answers: ‘There are many reasons. Bad governance, a lot of corruption, environmental crime and strong economic interests. In many countries, including Norway, we see a bit-by-bit reduction that destroys and that we have not been able to stop.’ In June next year, Norway is organising a global conference on bio-diversity in Trondheim. That's good. The government's objective is to be an international driver for an effective agreement to be signed in 2020, says the Minister for the Environment. What does Minister of State Mæland from the Right say? Is it possible to crack more in a government? Is it possible to manage Norwegian nature when one hand is to protect flowers that the other hand is to dig up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e837	I believe that in a matter of almost ten minutes I answered the challenges the interpellant raised. I have therefore said that we are taking this work seriously. We believe that our practice is successful. We believe that we are balancing this in a good way. Then I think it must be a misunderstanding that the more objections and the longer the procedure, the better the natural diversity. It's not like that. It is not that the state level is so much better at taking care of local interests than it is at local level. Some people think that only national politicians can do that job. It's not like that. It's been a good cleanup, it's been a good collaboration, we have fewer objections, you've become more solution-oriented, and you balance this in a very good way. I believe that my statement and the number of matters I have explained show that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e844	Human influence on nature causes us to eradicate species a thousand times faster than normal. A nature with less diversity of species and habitat types is more vulnerable to natural environmental changes such as: climate change. Several species in nature increase the chance that there are species that deal with the warmer and wetter weather that comes with climate change. These species may compensate for the extinction of other species. More indirectly, constant interventions also cause us to break up nature in such a way that it becomes smaller and less coherent. It makes species more vulnerable to extinction. Although we have laws and regulations, yes, for that matter communications, which are intended to ensure that we take care of our most endangered species, unfortunately, often happens that they do not. Sabima often sees that it is sloping to see if these species actually exist. There is a lack of control as to whether sufficient consideration has actually been given to the species or whether other societal considerations are more serious. Municipalities play a central role in land management in Norway. In order for municipalities to help stop the loss of natural diversity, they must have sufficient capacity, good natural competence and knowledge of the natural environment in the municipalities. Municipalities must have staff with competence in biology and nature, so that each municipality has clear and long-term objectives to stop the loss of natural diversity. Finally, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important matter in Stortinget today. The Labour Party believes that the State should continue to have a strong role as its local administration of Norwegian nature, so that we can see all natural interventions more easily, thus preventing bit-down of Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e857	Nature conservation is important, despite the fact that it often gets a little bit into the background of the environmental debate, where we usually talk about climate policy. Climate policy is incredibly important, so we should talk more about it than we do today. But it's a little strange that nature conservation comes in the back row, because also in a climate perspective, nature protection and natural diversity are important. The more biodiversity we have, the better rusted nature is to meet the weather changes that we know will come, anyway. Then, of course, nature protection and natural diversity are an important value in themselves. It's about the generations that are coming after us having the opportunity to enjoy and experience the amazing natural values our nation has to live on. That is why this government has an effective policy to preserve nature, both in Norway and globally. It is simply a mistake that the interpellant tries to say: nothing is happening in this area in Norway. I will claim that it happens more now, and is higher on the agenda now than when the interpellant's own party was put in government. Let me do some examples. Together with the forest industry, this government is working to protect important forest values. Why is that important? It is important both in a nature diversity perspective and in a climate perspective, because forests bind carbon. The scheme of voluntary forest protection has been boasted by all teams and is something this government has been offensively committed to. Since 2013, we have rejected no less than 11 energy issues because the protection of nature has weighed more heavily. One example I can mention – which I know is that the interpellant party has engaged in – is the East Pacific. We rejected the applications, and now it's going into the protective plan. We are also working to determine how we can best take care of those types of nature that are most threatened. I understand that one can be impatient when such investigation is going on, but it is important to do it properly, because nature protection and natural diversity are too important to spend time on what can be symbolic decisions. You have to do a thorough job to get to it. Globally, we have the rainforest bet. I heard the interpellant's concern about what's happening in other parts of the world. Norway's attitude is quite clear, and it may be worth adding that this government is betting far more on the world's rainforests than the red-green government was ever able to do. Another important global issue of nature protection is plastic pollution in our oceans. What government has taken the initiative to put something really in place there? Yes, the sitting government. The sitting government has ensured that the UN has zero vision targets for plastic in the sea. The current government believes it is important to use large sums from the rich countries — including Norway — to build good waste management systems in countries that do not have waste management systems, because it is where most of the plastic pollution in the sea comes from. We also do a lot at home. I think the interpellant notices that when the red-green government crashed, we spent a few hundred thousands on plastic pollution. Now we're using hundreds of millions for the same purpose. Then there's a discussion about local autonomy. In the Committee I sit on, the Committee on Energy and the Environment, we have dealt with some issues on what should be allowed to be decided locally, for example. in extension matters, etc. There we are concerned that local authorities will be able to make good decisions, and that there are already tools that local authorities can use to preserve their nature. Some of the problems are that some of the instruments are not well known. We're working on making them more familiar, but we also have to take care of local autonomy. Whatever – the sum total – the interpellant speaks against better knowledge in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e878	I want to thank the interpellant for addressing some of the most important issues we can address, both for our time and not least for those who come after us. Finally, I would like to say that perhaps one of the most dangerous things is bathing in the sea in these matters. Here we all have a lot to go on. The government has done something, but not enough, and it's important, because these are processes that are not reversible, neither in terms of climate, biodiversity, nor the loss of food soil, for example. I miss that the Council of State has the big picture of what this is all about. It is about irreversible interventions that can destroy the natural basis on which future generations will live. I think we all have to take it seriously over us, and that we have to do this better than what we've done now. It was just to be lacking that the government, which has never had as much money at its disposal as it has now, did not do any more with this. Forest protection is important. It is important to review it – if it is allowed to say so. But I'm travelling around and taking part in debates where the Right Party and Advance Party representatives from this room ridicule the forest protection goal that the Stortinget has set, and strongly argues against it when the industry is present, so I miss it a little bit. Yes, local democracy is important, and that is an important point. But what I miss from the government is that you take what is absolutely necessary if local democracy is to be able to do these jobs properly: the necessary skills at all stages. It is a research project called EVAPLAN, which was launched in 2014. This harvest must be completed. It is clear that climate, environmental and nature protection is very often lost in local planning processes today. They're taping. They have interviewed those who are responsible for this in the municipalities. They were asked to what extent climate and nature considerations were taken into account in planning. It's connected. Biological diversity and climate are closely linked; I agree with the representative Heggelund. The answer was very discouraging. That's just 29 pst. which corresponds to the fact that it is largely or very much taken into account. There are other considerations that win. Is it that we think it's okay that the other reasons win? That's what we're going to talk about right now. Is the local discretion too large, so that biodiversity, soil protection, nature protection in general, the national perspective, loses too much? Why will the government not participate in and demand that there be relevant competence at a high level in these areas in all municipalities and county municipalities – which will now also have some more such tasks – and that we ensure that the professional communities that are left of the county officials do not become so narrow and small that they are not competent enough to carry out their control tasks in the future? In the past, Stortinget called for municipalities to have environmental protection managers with the relevant competence. There are some municipalities that have such skills, but there are too few, and too few that are so sharp that they have enough weight to go against some of the heavy development interests that also push local politicians. It is important that you have the skills to tell when these are values that are national and that you cannot intervene without harming national values. I'm absolutely sure local politicians are very busy doing this, but I don't think they're now getting good enough advice and good enough help to be able to stand up to where it's necessary. I miss a greater commitment from the Council of State to take care of these basic issues if this is to be handled safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e897	We are witnessing today the extinction of plants and animals that humanity has not seen in its life history. Scientists estimate that extinction occurs at a rate that is a thousand times faster than what is natural. Extermination is to compare with what happened 65 million years ago, when the dinosaurs disappeared. I won't stand here and say it was man-made, because it wasn't. But it's an extermination that's very serious, and we know what's behind this. It is the constant decline of plants and animal habitats, not only in Norway, but also in the rest of the world. In the 1960s, Rachel Carson came with the book "The Silent Spring". There is a danger that the world will experience a spring of silence with a significantly weakened diversity of species on the globe. What does this mean for us humans? One thing is that we lose beautiful natural areas to go for a walk in. Something else is that we weaken nature's ability to give us the services we depend on every day in our daily work: clean air, clean soil, clean water, clothes, building materials. The eradication of plant and animal species is a threat to our prosperity and our civilization in line with global climate change. In this picture, the government says that the statesmen will raise fewer objections, fewer objections from the statesmen will be taken into account, and it will be easier to obtain permission for reduction. The submitted state budget and also the budgetary unit with Christian People's Party cutters in important nature conservation efforts. It was cut for the first time in many years in the effort to preserve forests, where half of the endangered species live. But when we hear the post from the representative Heggelund, we would think that what we were really talking about was an NM or the World Cup in self-interest. If it was, this government won with glory. Finally, I want to challenge the Council of State in a matter, and there is a question of a bypass on Karmøy in Rogaland, fv. 47, Field South-Veakrossen. It has become a testament to the government's respect for the nature diversity law. The County Government raised its objections for the second time, but the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation approved the plans in 2016. A statement by many nature protection organisations points out that the controversial road case at Karmøy is a school example of the issues between local and liberal land management, faced with overall consideration of natural and legal values. The Civil Ombudsman has recently delivered his opinion on this matter. In that regard, he considers that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation must re-examine the matter and then, in the light of the fact that the decision does not meet the requirements of the procedure laid down in Section 7 of the Nature Diversity Act. My question and my challenge to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is whether she will now see to it that the devastation that is about to happen is stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e910	I call for some honesty and honesty in this debate, and I call on the representatives to recognise the seriousness of the issues raised. Of course, the government has taken several objections. It was just supposed to be missing. The councils mentioned two to three, she could probably also mention more – it should just be missing. The representative Heggelund boasted of a lot of measures, and that, of course, should just be missing. There were many good single measures, the fight against plastic in the sea, etc. It's very, very good, and a total accumulation is behind such measures. But there has been a development in society, and it is clear that there are a number of things that are gradually becoming more and more urgent, which the government has to deal with. I don't think Einar Gerhardsen was so busy with plastic, to say it like that. Internationally, we have the Rio Convention, we have the Aichi objectives, and we have the new UN sustainability objectives. In Norway, we have, among other things: the Natural Diversity Act, which is an essential tool in the extension of the UN objective. It is responsible for actors in all areas of society that affect nature. It was a groundbreaking law that came in the count's time during the red-greens. But the crucial thing is, of course, how the law is practiced and interpreted. It had, among other things, The County and the Ministry of Environment are responsible for the past. Now everything indicates that the County has been clipped. We have left much more to the municipalities to interpret these laws. There are municipalities that want new jobs, they want new roads and new industries, etc. There are often municipalities with low levels of competence in the natural sciences, such as: The representative, Andersen, pointed out, but with a great need for tax access and growth. Is there not then a need for an authority a little higher up, perhaps, which prevents it from becoming a bit-by-bit reduction, and which is careful that the overall legislation and regulations adopted by the Storting are followed? I think so. I have to ask again whether the Council of State can say anything about the liberalisation that has been introduced, among other things. with the circulars that I referred to earlier, with a transfer from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Local Affairs, has resulted in more nature and more cultivated land being built.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e924	I want to thank you for an important interpellation, simply because it's an important topic, but I have to say I'm very surprised to be accused of lack of honesty and honesty. It does not, in fact, deserve this important debate. I've explained the government's policy, so I started with the generation perspective. We want to ensure that generations after us can also benefit from the values and experiences of Norwegian nature today. Loss of natural diversity is one of the greatest environmental challenges of our time, I said. If it's not to understand the seriousness, I don't really understand anything. It was not like this either that I explained a few things, I explained all the issues that have been raised about objections in the light of natural diversity. I also explained that half of the cases were resolved to meet, in whole or in part, the objection. That's the government's policy. Then I agree with the concerns you have internationally. That's all there's to it. Therefore, Norway's commitment is greater now than it has ever been. Karin Andersen asked if the room for action is too large in the municipalities. No, but the municipalities are too small, and that's what you don't understand when you keep pointing out that small municipalities lack competence. We answer that then we have to get larger municipalities, but you don't want that from SV. A lot of municipalities are struggling with their skills. If the answer to this is new laws, new regulations and new regulations, I think it's the wrong way to go. And I obviously have a lot more faith in local politicians and their knowledge and eagerness to take care of their own environment than what SV has. I understand that Haltbrecken would like me to deal with the matter of Karmøy in the storeroom. I'm not going to do that. I am going to do what the Civil Ombudsman said, namely to re-examine the matter. We do that in a proper and proper way in the department, and when we have an answer, we're going to tell it. It is only in the UK that the more objections, the longer the processing time, the more chaotic conditions we have in the area, the better the natural diversity. It's not like that. It is very good that the statesmen have the power to coordinate the sectoral authorities, it is very good that we spend less time, it is very good that we become more predictable. It's good for those who build up, it's good for the municipalities, it's very good for the state, and it's good for the natural diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e937	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e953	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, seven lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e960	Like the whole Storting, I think I can say that all the things that are about our veterans are important, and I also want to use the expression'sensitive'. The matter we're going to deal with now is an important matter, because it's about closing what I want to call a hole in the security network for our veterans. It is the parties SV and Red that profitably, I would say, have promoted representative proposals on this topic – on the same topic, to extend the right of appeal in matters of compensation for psychological damage to veterans who have served in international operations since 2010. At the same time as the Stortinget decided in 2009 to introduce a separate protection for veterans from international operations, a specific compensation scheme was also established for veterans with psychological damage from international operations between 1978 and 2009. For this particular compensation scheme, a separate complaint subject was established, which everyone knows. However, the permanent compensation scheme for veterans with a foreign service after 2010 has not had any such remedies. From the Department of Defence team, it has been argued that after 2010, veterans do not have the same challenges related to evidence as veterans with service as far back as 1978. However, the majority of the Committee is concerned that the time perspective applies to all types of veterans, because all knowledge and experience now shows that it can take many years before psychological damage appears, including for veterans who have been in service since 2010, of course. The Minister of Defence has, in a letter to the Committee, outlined the subject of the financial complaint as a possible appeal body for this type of action. However, the majority of the Committee rejects this model. There is a difference in substance, I have to say, between, on the one hand, veterans who have served for their country on behalf of war zones, and, on the other hand, private-law disputes between individuals and banks or insurance companies. The majority of the Committee therefore asks the Government to draw up the necessary amendments to the law and regulation to introduce remedies also for veterans after 2010. Finally, I just want to clarify one detail, an important detail in the majority proposal for I. As you can see from both my comments and the comments from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the psychological damage involved here is the introduction of legal remedies, not all other types of harm. I'm cleaning it up now. In order to clear up what may arise from doubt, therefore, there has been a loose proposal to replace I, where no changes are made but to clarify the psychological damage involved in this matter. So it's going to come out from the setting that what you can say is the shade in it, is that other parties, especially the government parties, want to investigate this. I have to say that this matter should we be able to reassemble in the hall now. There is no need to address this issue. This matter has been resolved. It's a matter of closing a hole in our law, so that we create equality for all soldiers who have served on behalf of Norway after decision and conclusion in this hall, and it's necessary that we seal this hole effectively. It is not necessary to investigate this matter at all, in my opinion. I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e975	The representative Martin Kolberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e980	The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has examined two different representative proposals, one from Bjørna Moxnes and the other from Audun Lysbakken, Karin Andersen, Nicholas Wilkinson and Petter Eide, on the veteran appeal rights in damages cases. The first proposal, from Mr Björna Moxnes, is as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a proposal to the Storting for the amendment of Section 55 of the Defence Act in order to ensure the right of appeal in actions for damages also for those who have served in international operations after 1 January 2010.’ The second proposal, tabled by Mr Lysbakken, Mr Andersen, Mr Wilkinson and Mr Eide, is as follows: ‘The government is asking for a complaint for a decision to compensate for damage resulting from participation in international operations, including for those who have served since 1 January 2010. The Government is requested to propose to the Stortinget the necessary legislative and regulatory changes to enable such a complaint to enter into force as soon as possible.’.» I believe I am speaking on behalf of an overall committee when I say that a good and proper treatment of the veterans must be a high priority. Those who have served for the country deserve our respect and our support back. There's been a lot of discussion about the situation of veterans lately. We can see this in the broad outline of St. Report. No 34 for 2008-2009, From Protective to Veterinary and Action Plan I Service to Norway from 2011. Both representatives' proposals address the right of veto to bring actions for damages. Veterans who have served in international operations and who subsequently experience mental damage as a result of the service may seek compensation in accordance with given criteria. Those who have served between 1 January 1978 and 31 December 2009 may seek compensation through the system regulated by the regulation on a separate compensation scheme for mental injury. This special compensation scheme provides that decisions taken by the State pension fund may be appealed against by a specific name designated by the Ministry of Defence. However, such a remedy is not possible for those seeking compensation for damage when the service abroad has taken place after 1 January 2010. The two recommendations of the Committee are in practice consistent. Equal access to justice will now be granted to all veterans, irrespective of the time of service. The Committee has come up with two recommendations by a different majority. These two recommendations are consistent in substance. The first recommendation, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, is worded as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for the necessary legislative and regulatory changes in order to introduce a right of appeal for compensation decisions also for mental damage caused by service in international operations after 1 January 2010.’ I refer to the proposal to which Mr Kolberg referred. The Council of State announced earlier this year that the Ministry would set up a working group for an overall review of the rights of Norwegian veterans. A majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, want to take into account the recommendations and conclusions of the working group in the further work of establishing a system of complaints for veterans. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party shall then promote the following proposal for a decision: ‘The government is asked to establish a complaint procedure for veterans who have participated in international operations since 2010 and have suffered mental damage in international operations. Veterinary organisations are involved in the preparation of the complaint mechanism. The establishment of such a complaint procedure is assumed to be part of the mandate of the externally managed working group set up by the Ministry of Defence.’;» Finally, it does not appear that SV’s proposal to create its own name has a majority in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1018	The representative of Haarek Elvenes has then referred to the committee's recommendation – that was not necessary, but he did.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1023	It is good that the Storting can gather on decisions that reflect a clear willingness to take responsibility for our veterans. It is something that should be of particular importance to us, because the Stortinget has asked so much from the people who are being sent out on military missions on behalf of Norway. And it's a responsibility that I think it's important and good that we can get together about, even in those cases where there's political disagreement about the particular missions and conflicts in the world. When it comes to caring for our veterans, we're going to stand together. The starting point for the SV proposal was concerns raised by veterans and veterans’ organisations related to the disappearance of the remedies. I believe that the change of course which took place when the complaint disappeared must almost be characterised as a political accident at work. There was at least nothing that there was consciousness around the Storting at that time. I believe that the Committee's review of this matter clearly shows that both the arguments for not having a right to appeal of the kind we have had for veterans who have been injured before 2010 do not meet the objectives, and also that the proposed option with the Financial Complaint Study is a poor alternative. Firstly, I think that the committee's procedure makes it difficult to make a fundamental distinction by the year 2010. Although the follow-up of veterans has improved much, after good efforts by different governments, it is nevertheless the case that, first of all, there is a complicated picture because so many of these psychological injuries occur after a long time, or show up only after a long time. Secondly, all the reviews we've seen show very clearly that the veterans are struggling to meet the understanding and competence of the civil auxiliaries – naturally, because these are challenges that few other Nordics share and can relate to, and that the civil auxiliaries rarely meet. This means that the proposal to use the Financial Complaint Study as an alternative complaint subject is obviously not appropriate. What is of objection to leaning too much on the civil auxiliaries in general, must apply in particular to a name that is created for a completely different purpose, and that has its competence in completely different things than what we are talking about here. Therefore, I believe it is important to state that the setting now puts the idea of death. It is the majority in the UK that the Financial Complaints Board should not be an alternative in this process. SV believes that we should adopt here and now that the model with a specific name designated by the Ministry of Defence should continue – or be reinstated – it is more appropriate to say. This is simply because all of the feedback we have received indicates that it has been a good model, and that will make it possible to get this system started again in a fast and efficient way, with a model we know will work. However, I believe that the decisions we are making are a very important step in the right direction. There is a political consensus that a complaint mechanism should be reinstated. But I agree with the representative of Kolberg that ordering an investigation of this seems to be an unnecessary use of time, simply, all the time the question is not very complicated, and the political will is present. And the experience of giving the government in order to investigate instead of acting – and it's not a special charge against this government, I think it's about any government – is that it can quickly mean that things take a very long time. The human costs of Norwegian military participation in war, conflict and peacekeeping in the world have been great, greater than the Norwegian social debate often reflects. We owe the veterans a lot. The size of the population cannot ask for anything greater than to go into the armed conflict with Norway. That's why we owe the veterans to follow up the way we're doing now and we're going to have to keep going forward. With that, I will address the proposal SV is on its own in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1040	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1045	I want to start with something that the representative Lighthouse picked up. I think that, in particular, in matters related to our veterans, we are doing well if we get broad political solutions, and I think that the contributions from the representatives of Kolberg, the Rivers and the Light Basin show that we are happy here. I would like to give a special thanks to the case spokesman for taking new and important steps in this matter. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to preserve and ensure a good supply for the veterans and their families both before, under and after the service. Here is a good compensation scheme for those who have been injured as a result of the service, very important. Our veterans who have served in international operations have struggled with life as an effort for other people's right to live a life of peace and freedom. The veterans have practical experience in demanding assignments, often under time pressure in complex situations in the face of difficult value issues. Some are young, and many make up something of the backbone of the Norwegian defense with their experience and competence. At the same time, we find veterans up in all ages and life stages. Some have injuries and trauma that affect the quality of life. They should meet a system that gives them the help they need and that also has the competence to understand the situation of the veterans. I think that the proposers are making an important point and are pleased that one has managed to achieve this broad consensus in the Central Committee, and that is that today's legislation is to be reformed, and that there is to be a complaint procedure for veterans who have participated in international operations after 2010. The Christian People's Party supports the setting up of a non-ministerial leadership working group to look at the best possible way of running veterans' dishes. We also support the fact that this group is working out and assessing the closer design of the complaint. It is important that the veterans' own organizations are well represented in this work. At the same time, some of the leaders who have already been clarified by this proposal from the Stortinget’s side, where there is a clear majority saying that there should be a separate complaint mechanism for those who have participated in our international operations since 2010, that the Financial Complaint is not an own complaints body for veto cases, and that these complaints should be addressed by a body competent for war damage. With these clarifications, the Christian People's Party will vote for Decision II of the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1062	Red shares the pleasure of the veterans that we are getting an impact on our proposal that even those injured in war operations after 1 January 2010 will be entitled to appeal in damages cases. This right of appeal is important for several reasons. Everyone understands that watching soldiers comrades get killed, experience intense fear of death, or live by having killed or injured others can cause great mental damage. But often the psychological reaction comes only many years later, and then it can be difficult to give waterproof proof that the traumas are due to the experiences of the war. Veterans, who are often in a difficult economic and mental situation, need, when they are denied the claim, an appeal which does not involve insurmountable legal costs and costs. So for those that apply, today's decisions could make an important difference. Then it should be said that the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has unfortunately not supported our intention to continue today's system with the same professional name that deals with veterans' anchors that were damaged before 1 January 2010, even for those who are injured since that date. Instead, the majority of the committee asked the government to come up with a solution to secure this right of appeal. Fortunately, the majority of the committee rejected what seemed to be the government's preferred cheap solution, namely that the Financial Complaint Board should deal with these appeals. With that in mind, there is still hope that we can end up with a good solution, but I would like to stress that this case also has an important principle side, namely the use-and-cast mentality towards the country's soldiers and veterans, who unfortunately have become involved in Norwegian policy. I believe many of us first and foremost link war veterans who end up with ruined lives and left to themselves, with the United States – with the great coals that were sent out to war in Korea, Vietnam and Iraq – not with Norway. Fortunately, Norway is not the United States, and most Norwegian veterans get a completely different treatment when they come home from war abroad, than the United States. But the reason Red made a proposal on the Storting to secure the veterans' right of appeal is precisely that this American use-and-cast mentality in terms of military life, unfortunately, is more present in Norwegian politics than we like to believe. For those politicians who willingly send our young women and men into war when NATO and the United States ask for it, are often less willing to provide a dignified treatment when they come home with damage. Perhaps the worst example of this is the defence law, which the government got through in 2016, where the veterans were deprived of the right of appeal that we are now fighting for them to get back. Another sign of this mentality is the network of healthcare professionals – or the lack of this network – that should have been established by 2014. No veterans have seen anything special since then. In addition, probably the problem of injured veterans is greater than many think. Since 1999, changing governments have sent soldiers into a number of U.S.-led warriors and have gladly misjudged the shift from peace nation to war nation with words such as ‘humanitarian operations’, ‘presence’ and ‘peacekeeping’. But for the soldiers who experience the brutal reality of the war, the rhetoric of the warlike political elite is of little help. Red is against US-led war adventures, which create more problems than they solve. But when the politicians who send soldiers into war are going to save money to cut off the rights of those who come home with trauma and injuries, yes, then the veterans are going to know that Red is on their side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1084	As a former foreign-service soldier, I have been involved in the vetting from the time I entered this house, in the autumn of 2009. I am very concerned that our veterans who have participated in international operations are given the recognition they deserve, and are well cared for. This is particularly important when damage occurs during service. Over the last few years, we have established good financial benefits for the veterans who are injured during the service of international operations. I still believe that we are not fully in line with this work. It is important that we constantly look at how we can improve the existing arrangements. The establishment of a compensation scheme in 2010 for veterans with psychological damage due to participation in international operations was a powerful measure to ensure that serious action was taken on those who returned with injuries that are not necessarily equally visible to the environment. For veterans who had served in foreign service all the way back to the first quota in Lebanon, there was a cross-political agreement to establish good arrangements for those who suffered psychological damage. Although the special compensation scheme is limited in time and applies only to veterans who have suffered a mental injury before 2010, we have also put in place good arrangements for veterans who have served after 2010 and who are mentally struggling after the service. Therefore, both our older and new veterans have the same financial compensation for the same damage today, even if this results from different legislation. Claims for compensation and financial compensation for damage arising from international operations are dealt with by the State pension fund. For veterans with psychological damage who have served before 2010, there is an independent appeal subject dealing with complaints against decisions of the State pension fund. The background was that there was a very unknown area we were going into, and we were going to fetch stories all the way back to the middle of the 1970s, treat fates and stories from then on. Psychiatric sensitivities are complicated. In Norway, we have learned — we do not need to use the United States as an example — that this is complicated, from the time we got our first home after staying in concentration camps. Then we thought for many years that PTSD came from hunger and hunger. So a few years passed, and then the health care system suddenly discovered the same symptoms of our war ropes, which had not necessarily starved out in their years, but had had strong experiences. So they concluded medically that this might have to do with strong experiences -- that's what's burning down, and that's what's leading to this kind of suffering. So we went a long time into the trap that we thought that peacekeeping operations couldn't make such a strong impression on people, and we got many young people home from, among other things. Lebanon with psychological damage that we did not see. That is the job we have taken seriously; it is the job that was available for the particular complaint subject. Yes, we're going to have an appeal mechanism in place for the veterans who have served after 2010. I fully agree with that. That's why I started a job. But my reason to look at the entire scheme, pick up all the experience we now have with the compensation scheme – we have released around 1.8 billion. kr in compensation for soldiers after we established the system, the need is clearly there – my reason for saying that we should look at it completely is that we should draw experience from the work that has been done now, so that we are absolutely sure that as we proceed, we should be able to change the arrangements in the light of experience we have done. That is why I am very pleased with the decisions to be made here today. In view of the rhetoric on the subject of the Financial Complaint: yes, it is also a point that we should have a compensation scheme and a complaint procedure that is normal and similar to the other compensation schemes that we can get, because it is going to be normal to be a veteran and tell it if you get psychological plagues. There has also been the background for us to have a health care system that understands that this is more normal than it is abnormal. The Financial Complaint was a request to the State pension fund: how do you do this? Well, some of the issues that come through the State pension fund's schemes are the Financial Complaints Board dealing with. That is why it was presented as a proposal. We've looked at that, and it's been rejected a long time ago. We are looking at a better complaint mechanism for these veterans. It is quite right, as it is said – and fortunately, many people say it from this pulpit – that the defence personnel involved in international operations do so on behalf of the Norwegian state. They do it on behalf of us, and they are sent out authorized by the government and this house. That is why we are concerned about the provision of these personnel, and that is why we are going to put this system in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1103	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1108	There seems to be a very large consensus in this matter, and that is very good. I heard intensely what the Council of State now said as an argument that, after all, there should be an investigation round about this. He said it's to look at the whole thing. I believe that the whole of this issue is quite clear already. We already have the experience, we have a complaint subject that applies to them before 2010. We agree that mental retardation occurs, and we know what this is all about. What, then, is the content of the term ‘the wholeness’? I think that needs to be clarified as an argument that we should go that round and not be able to adopt the proposal that exists to propose the necessary legislative changes directly to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1113	There are two things that are important. Firstly, I believe that we should gain experience from the compensation schemes we now have. There is a lot of good knowledge about how matters have been handled. There have been cases that have been taken through compensation, they have been taken through appeals, and there have been cases that have gone through the judicial system – where we now also have valuable experience. I think that's the one thing we should be looking at. The second thing I think we're going to see is that in doing the civil health service and the civil support apparatus too, paying attention to this kind of problem, it's important that we normalize this type of damage as much as possible. That is why I believe that we should be able to create a system that is as similar as possible to the compensation schemes we have for other psychological and physical injuries in the workplace. It's been the idea of picking up all of the other elements. I'm open that we're going to have a right to appeal, and then I think we're going to use the experience we've gained over the last few years in this type of case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1122	It is not necessary to polemise so much around this here in the main hall, I think frankly, because the matter is really decided. It is also clear from the proposal made by the Government parties that this system should be implemented. Why, then, can we not carry out this matter? You have experience and are based on them, the experience is already there. Why do you have to have an investigation round before you actually follow up this case, when the Stortinge says practically unanimously that this will be carried out? I do not understand the bureaucratic idea, because I assume that the Minister of Defence and the Ministry of Defence will ensure that all the knowledge and experience of how to deal with the experience of the veterinary devices are continuously acquired, and that no new investigation is needed after the Storting says so clearly that this will be carried out. Can't you just do it first, and then we can get the experience? I expect that the department will take responsibility for it on an ongoing basis. So I don't understand the logic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1127	I'll try to explain it. I am not pointing to a new investigation that will come after the landfill treatment. When I say investigation, I talk more about the work we started with in January, just because I saw that there is a problem here, we have to solve that. But there were more problems here. That is why we set up a group to look at the compensation system at large and also to arrive at the right remedies, so that we are absolutely sure that we are dealing with people correctly. One of the important principles here is that we have equal treatment for veterans from before and after 2010, and we gain experience and take them further. There is no new investigation, this is a work we have already started, simply because we saw it already in January.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1132	I just want as much as I can, urge the Minister of Defense not to translate the broad consensus that is here, into an insidious investigation process. That is why I really have one question, and it is whether the Minister of Defence can promise that this will go quickly. And if the answer to that is yes, can he suggest anything about how fast it can go?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1137	I can promise it'll be quick. No, I can't tell you how fast it's gonna take. I can't. I told you we're looking at it. This is a work I am very busy getting in place, so I can answer a clear yes that it will go quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1142	I want to follow up on what the representative of Kolberg challenged the State Council. It is fine with a comprehensive review – it is always – but what is not quite easy to understand is why the Minister of Defence will not continue to harm the same veterans appeal body after 1 January 2010 as for those who have been injured before that date. In response to the representative, Mr Kolberg, the Minister just said that the review was about ensuring equal treatment before and after 2010. Then it is remarkable that you should not have the same appeal body for veterans damaged before and after 1 January 2010, if the aim is to ensure such non-discrimination. What is the reason why the Minister does not want to continue the same appeal body that has been in force until 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1147	I replied to this also in my post. The renown we made when we established the arrangement was to take a quite large area, from the mid-1970s, when we first traveled to Lebanon, and forward. There were many fates and many stories, and we had little experience with this. We've now had a lot of experience. One of the work I've done is to look at these experiences and see how the compensation schemes are now. The second is that we want it to be a simple system, it should not be insurmountable. It was said from the chair here that it should not be necessary to know countless lawyers – it came from the representative of Moxnes, if I am not mistaken. No, I won't. It shall be as simple, clear and clear as possible. I also believe that we have something to earn by creating a replacement name that is as similar as possible to the names that we already know works. The independent replacement class that was created was created for a very special purpose. We have legal remedies that are perhaps simpler and better than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1154	If so, can the Council of State guarantee that the body responsible for handling complaints from those injured after 1 January 2010 will have at least as good professional competence as the subject of today's appeal? Can the Council of State say anything more about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1160	Yes, and I am also very concerned that such an appeal should have a good competence in the right to compensation. It's also important. One is the health part of this, and the other is to be good at the right to compensation. It's also about being simple, possible and manageable for a veteran to deal with this system. I think we're going to be able to make it easier and better with the experience we can systematize and arrange now, after we've had such a system for quite many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1165	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1172	It's not just those who have been involved in war and have actually shot someone, who comes back with load damage. When the conflict between Israel and the PLO peaked in 1978, a Norwegian UN battalion was mobilized in an impressive short time. At Trandum, the soldiers were met by Palestinian activists. They illegally entered the military area to demonstrate against the Norwegian UN intervention. On 1 April 1978 the Palestinian flag passed over the Trandum military camp. The Palestinian Committee was well known in Southern Lebanon before the defense got there. They had recruited many Northmen to serve the PLO and some of their fractions. The Palestine Committee sent so-called solidarity workers to the Middle East in 1976. The conditions were very inconclusive and demanding for the Norwegian UN soldiers. Various Palestinian militias belittled Norwegian soldiers and put them under a great physical and mental pressure. When the fighting was over, the Palestinians retreated to their own camps, where there were Norwegians from the Norwegian Palestine Committee. Several veterans have told us how bitter they felt to be protected by groups supported by the Nordics. The Palestinian Committee and the later Palestinian Front were based on ACP and SV. [[m-l]] This year it is 40 years since Norway sent the first soldiers to Lebanon, and much has changed – fortunately for that. It is therefore particularly pleasant that the successors of the ACP, Red, and now also the SV, have made their own proposal to take care of veterans who are struggling with the aftermath. Norwegian soldiers have participated in several operations, until recently, where they have not experienced support throughout the Norwegian population. A nation that contributes with soldiers and other personnel in international operations and in war and conflict situations must have a solid support system for those who come home with injuries and challenges after service. The current financial safety net for injured soldiers is perceived to be complicated and unpredictable. Many veterans have to go through long and challenging processes to get their damage approved and to be awarded financial compensation or compensation. The proceedings may take several years, and veterans may take several rounds of investigations, documentation collection, contests and judicial rounds in order to uphold their financial rights. Several veterans say that they can be supported by Nav, but that SPK, the State pension fund, is denying the same decisions. It cannot be that the Nordics who make an effort for their country should be treated in this way. The Minister of Defence has set up a working group to review the compensation and compensation schemes of veterans. I hope this working group will find good and worthwhile solutions for this very small group that has not come home completely, those who are mentally struggling to land at home after the end of the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1185	I just want to distance myself from the very special post we heard right now. I think it's a little sad to try to use this debate to make a polemic about who supported the Northmen in the UN service in Lebanon. As far as I know, there was broad political support in Norway for the participation in Lebanon, and the Nordics belonging to all political camps have been there and served. I would have asked myself to write such a story and the kind of accusation that came now. That's a sad way to end an all-out debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1190	There was a remarkable civil intervention at the end of the debate. The interesting thing about the post, and really about the case, is that the Lebanon veterans are just an example of how from official Norwegian teams – from defence teams and also from shifting governments up through – unfortunately the plight of the veterans was not taken seriously in retrospect. I was not familiar with the left-hand side of the government at this point in time. So there were other parties who were responsible for things like this. Harald Stanghelle in the Evening Post – which is also not a newspaper very far to the left in Norwegian policy – sees as a shameful treatment of veterans over very many years. The fact that we are now being corrected in something, on a proposal from Red and SV, should be a pleasure to everyone and not be made – what to say – subject to simple and innocuous polemics from the Right. They should rather take a look in the mirror and think about how they themselves have been responsible over the decades for the inadequacy and – even Stanghelle’s words – the shameful treatment of soldiers from foreign operations. And not least the parties that, even without great treatment, send out young Norwegian women and men in war – without even calling it war, but operations and commitment, contributions, etc. – should also think about how they have treated these veterans in retrospect. So they were sent out to war for Norway, without the politicians responsible for it admitting that this is war. So here, maybe the Right should take a good and long look in the mirror, rather than making these obscene remarks to those who have now actually wanted to do something about a problem that I think many – far beyond our party ranks – seem to have to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1199	It's sometimes hit by a great wonder. I will comment on the situation we now got at the end, saying that for my part I can't imagine in my wildest political imagination that Right, or the representative of the Harek Rivers, or the Council of State, for that matter, is behind the post that we now heard. This, I think, was a post that accounts for the representative's own account and just that. Because if not so, the situation has suddenly become different in this discussion – not in terms of the facts of the matter, of course, but the culture of it. For here it was about gathering around the handling of a concrete and important matter. So I agree with what the Lighthouse said. He used the expression "trist" about this ending. I would say that it was completely unreasonable – and incalculable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1206	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1222	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1231	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Global and regional development of defence and security policy has been thoroughly addressed in Norway in recent years through various investigations, communications and policy processes. Key developments in the defence and security policy situation have been highlighted and discussed several times as part of these processes. Tematics has been thoroughly elucidated in cross-political terms, in the press and in the public vocabulary. Investigations, communications and political processes include: highlights global and regional security policy developments, developments in Norway’s neighbourhoods, Norway’s military capabilities, further development of defence, total defence and civil-military cooperation, and cooperation with allies and their further development. An open debate in which the country's citizens, the press and political parties have been actively involved has given a broad recognition of the changed security policy situation. It is the majority of the Committee's opinion that the implications for Norway have been fully addressed. The public debate has contributed to increased awareness of the importance of defence and broad consensus on the long lines of Norwegian defence and security policy. Important investigations and policy processes highlighting the development of defence and security policy have been carried out between 2014 and 2018. I allow myself to name the Expert Group on the Defense of Norway in 2015, the Defence Chief's Professional Military Council in 2015, Prop. 151 S for 2015–2016, Prop. 2 S for 2017-2018, Meld. Art. No. 10 for 2016-2017 and Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. This has provided a good basis for Norwegian policymakers to understand and manage developments globally and in Norway’s neighbourhoods. Several aspects specifically mentioned by proposers have been addressed in the Notice. Art. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The country's leading defence and security policy environments have been heavily involved in these works and in these processes. In the light of what has been done in various investigations and analyses of the most competent professional environments to which we have to draw and which have been carried out to such an extent, the majority of the Committee cannot agree with the proposal of the proposer to set up a new Norwegian Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1246	We are experiencing dramatic changes in the world. Multilateral cooperation is under pressure in many different ways. We see it in respect of respect and the will for cooperation in the United Nations, we see it in Europe, we see it in NATO, we see the major acts choose greater levels of isolation, and there are new challenges for small countries like Norway. We see dramatic changes associated with growing uncertainty about NATO's future. Not least we saw it during the summer summit. NATO's relevance to the future is uncertain because there is reason to ask questions about the American will and the ability to follow up Europe in the future. We see it related to the whole geopolitical situation and the emergence of several states with major and superpower ambitions. We are no longer in a world with one unique superpower, but in a world where several countries compete for influence, and where China grows as a potential second superpower, and the geopolitical center thus also moves towards Asia and the Pacific. Europe is like this to a greater extent than before in the process of becoming a fringe of the world. We see it through increased distance between Norway and the United States on trade policy issues, on climate policy issues and on how we deal with human rights and international conflicts. There is no reason to believe that «strumpism» is linked to one person. The trends in American policies that seek nationalistic isolation are stronger than before. Fifthly, we see it in the political, economic and military consequences of climate change. Climate change will trigger more conflict on scarcer resources, will trigger new refugee crises and will also contribute to a whole new security policy image. One could have added several things, such as the instability of the world economy and the danger of a new financial crisis, but the picture is clear: a great many of the things that have been obvious prerequisites for Norwegian security policy for a long time are now changing. Things are more uncertain than before, and it is of great importance that Norwegian politicians and Norwegian society are able to understand what is going on in the world around us. We have a long tradition of setting down a broad defence commission at a time of great change in the security policy image. It happened in 1908 after independence, it happened in 1920 after World War I, it happened in 1946 after World War II, it happened in the mid 1970s in the wake of Vietnam and Watergate, and it happened in 1990, of course, after the wall fell. We are today in a situation comparable to some of these situations, where what has been taken for granted turns out to be uncertain, and where the future is more unclear than before. It's not a time for water retention, it's a time for reinvention. Then someone would say what the case rapporteur pointed out, that we have plenty of investigations and plans in Norwegian defence policy. I agree with that – it is not the lack of plans and investigations that are the problem. But the defence's long-term plans are about something other than the mandate of a broad defence commission. A commission has to be asked to try to analyze the broad picture and the long lines in a different way than what we can do with the usual tools we have. It is about the role Norway should seek in an altered security policy landscape, it is about identifying threats for the future — and opportunities for the future — and it is about discussing how Norway should deal with a changing alliance policy: simply our understanding of the world around us. Water retention is the greatest threat to our ability to be prepared for the future, and we see today an increasing distance between what is discussed in meeting rooms and newspaper columns, and it's a willingness to say when one comes in official contexts, like here. Officially nothing has changed, but everyone knows everything has changed. This setting is the triumph of water retention, I think. It just means that we're losing time, and this proposal we have to come back to later. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1271	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1276	First to Martin Kolberg that I am making an article on behalf of myself: I understand that he was surprised instead that there was a representative who did not make contributions on behalf of the Council of State. This post is not on behalf of the Council of State; it is an entry on behalf of myself as a representative of the great crowd and elected by the people. The challenge to SV with this proposal is not that there is necessarily something wrong in what it says. When we heard the Lightbaking on the pulpit, he had already drawn the conclusions and consequences of the five points he noted and mentioned. There's no point in a new defence commission if you've decided in advance. There is something in this proposal that says: Let's look at the world completely new – with completely new eyes – and then we see if we can draw any conclusions, and then we make new policies. That's not what's lying there. It was a proposal that we know where the world is going, we know what we have, we know what they're caused by, and that's why we need a new policy. Then you don't need a new defence commission. In Norway, we enjoy a broad consensus on Norwegian defence and security policy, it is one of the things that strengthens our country, and such a defence commission as is now proposed will create division at a time when we actually need broad consensus. It is not certain that all these issues mentioned should be debated – an open debate on whether the United States is moving away from Europe. And if we conclude that the United States is doing it, well, then there's a self-fulfilling prophecy that it might not be necessary to process in transparency. This is discussed in all sorts of contexts in the United States. You discuss it in NATO, you discuss it bilaterally, trilaterally and multilaterally, and maybe that's where such a discussion should be, whether it's President Trump, or whether it's for others in the future. When one is concerned about setting down a defence commission and knows that the discussion will not create a broad consensus, but a distance between the parties and between the different political solutions, it is not necessarily a strength. We also see – back in time – who has proposed to put down a new defence commission, and so there are basically people on the left who want to create the rift that SV now also add up to, and create a real split. The world is changing very quickly, and you also have to react very quickly. It's not sure it's like the old days, where you sat down and made a commission, and then it applied for the next 15-20 years. That's not how today's world works. You need to react quickly, and we see that from day to day, not least in the last movements to Russia. Then you can't read in a book what you're actually going to think about this, but that's something you have to react to quickly and work with our partners about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1289	The current long-term plan was examined and adopted by a broad majority of the Stortinget in 2016. The backstop was the development of security policy, while shortcomings in the ability of the defence to solve the most demanding tasks were revealed. The government took the situation seriously and presented a long-term plan with a view to increasing defence capabilities. We are now two years into the implementation of the current long-term plan. The plan has a long-term perspective and, at the same time, a continuous development of the defence sector is necessary in order for it to be as equipped as possible to meet its tasks. The government has now started work on a new long-term plan and intends to present it to the Stortinget in the spring of 2020. Creating a long-term plan is a major task. Initially, we have chosen to carry out a basic work. This includes, inter alia: a review of developments in the threat picture, of other international developments and of the importance of technological developments. In this way, the development of the defence sector will be assessed in the light of an up-to-date understanding of global and regional developments affecting the security and defence policy situation we are in. Once the government has defined the political leaders and the framework for the work on a new long-term plan, the Defence Manager will be given the task of providing professional military advice in areas that the government will further develop. When the long-term plan is presented in spring 2020, the Storting will be able to address the further development of the defence sector in a coherent context, including the key developments in our environment. The government has been involved in a broad public debate on the development of the defence sector. We will continue to do so in the work on the forthcoming plan. In line with previous years, the government will facilitate a good and open process, where the professional military advice from the Defence Manager will also be made publicly available. Once the government has submitted proposals for a new long-term plan for the Storting, there will be a good overall basis for the broad public debate on the further development of the defence sector called for by the representative Lysbakken. I do not agree with the description of NATO and the United States. NATO is not facing an uncertain future. Cohesion is strong, and the relevance of the alliance as a guarantor of our own and European security is significant. No later than the summer summit, there was broad agreement on measures to increase the ability of Member States to defend themselves. The United States is committed to NATO, and the reality is that they have increased their military involvement in Europe. By drawing up a new long-term plan, the government will facilitate further development of the defence sector, including: in the light of an updated assessment of international developments. The size is given the opportunity to deal with this in a thorough manner. I believe that this takes account of the points in the proposal, and I do not see the need for a defence commission of my own. The time has not come to stop, as the representative Lightbaking recommends. Continuous development is important for the defence to be as equipped as possible to solve its tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1308	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1313	I bring with me the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde's call for broad agreement with a certain wonder, for Tybring-Gedde is indeed among those who demonstrate at regular intervals that the consensus is not as broad as everyone should have. I have from this pulpit before defending his right to both be here as himself and to think anything other than what the so-called broad consensus should say. I guess that's what we have in common -- even though we're on each side of the so-called broad consensus. I believe that broad consensus in foreign policy has been eroded. The most important thing for Norway is to be prepared for the future and understand the time we live in. Wide agreement understood as a need not to speak out about things that are difficult, can be dangerous, because it makes us unable to think ourselves. I think most people should be happy that there are people who dare to break their watering, including in foreign policy. Maybe it's just that field has extra need for it now, instead of one later acting like a consensus that cracks, is going to be there forever. The history of countries that get into trouble is very often about a failure to change their way of thinking, not being able to understand the big changes that happened in time. It is absolutely right that my post is coloured by my and SV's views on the world. Of course it is, but our proposal is still about getting into a broad process of trying to agree on what the common challenges are. I believe that there is no problem if we are to end up having a common response to them, but it is an advantage, not least for a small country, to have a continuous and good debate and try to get a common understanding of what the major challenges of our time are. I'm a little disappointed that no more parties have shown the will to move. The working party spoke nicely about this proposal in the paper, but there is no trace of it in the setting, and that is the setting that counts. Finally, I think the Minister for Defence illustrates the need for this debate. Because when we really get into the central changes of our time, for example. The changed role of the United States in the world through the new president, comes such ritual assurances that the cohesion of NATO is strong, despite the fact that all this summer has been able to see that the cohesion has been put to a serious test. This is a good example of the watering we want to live in. This setting is, as I said before, another example of the triumph of water retention in the Norwegian foreign policy debate, but it will have to change gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1326	I'm going to be pretty short. No, representative Lysbakken, it's not like that because I disagree with you in the experience of the NATO summit this summer, I'm driving and concealing things. I attended a meeting. We made a lot of decisions that unite the alliance. We made a lot of decisions moving the alliance back to the North Atlantic, to the old mission of securing the supply lines across the Atlantic, securing Europe. Trident Juncture is proof that the alliance is united on the mission we agree on. So I disagree with your description that we have an alliance that is confusing. I also disagree with your description that the United States does not stand up for NATO. We can discuss many other things in this particular case. We can discuss Brexit, which also gathers NATO – paradoxically – because it becomes important for the United Kingdom to have another arena to talk to its closest friends. So now they put a lot of muscles into being reliable Europeans in European-American cooperation. It's not to conceal anything to disagree with you, Light Hill, it's to describe my experience of having participated in a NATO summit this summer. That you have a different view of what happened, I respect, you should be allowed to say that, but also respect my experience of the political craft we did down there. It's different than yours, but I don't conceal it. I've always been open about what we achieved down there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1337	The President reminds the Council of State that he must appeal through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1343	Excuse me, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1348	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1364	I wanted to have a discussion today about the framework conditions for the big shift that Norway is going through. Here's a lot of things to deal with, but what we're going to do today is what parts of the Norwegian economy we're going to produce, and what parts of the Norwegian economy we're not going to produce. Then I will refer you to a matter from No. No. 23 January this year. The title was: ‘The billionaires consider housing purchases to be too favourable’. Here it appears that billionaires like Stein Erik Hagen, for example, believe that the tax system around ownership and housing is too favourable today and attracts too much investment. «We have invested too much money in cabins and houses and property. We should definitely get more to create jobs," says Stein Erik Hagen. Several others also agreed to this, including Jens Ulltveit-Moe. He thinks this is a big problem, and says, "Owndom is grossly undertaxed. It is a major structural problem and leads to too much money going into property." Furthermore, there are several other billionaires who underline the problem of ownership having such favourable conditions, while industries or industry do not. Firstly, the vast majority of players in the Norwegian debate, from the Scheel Committee to most of the public-speaking economists, recommend modernising the tax system and smoothing the imbalance between property taxes on one side and income on the other. Lower taxes on ordinary and low incomes, a lower tax rate in general, and more taxes on property are the way to go both to get a more well-functioning tax system and not least to create a more demanding tax system, which also creates a more stable housing market and thus also to increase financial stability. SV is alone in the Stortingen to propose to introduce a property tax to tackle this, which almost every economist in the Western Hemisphere recommends the Stortingen to introduce, but which none of the politicians in the other parties dare to propose, even though they know that it must be. Furthermore, we want to increase the value of property within the wealth tax. It has none of the other parties to suggest, and if you want to treat property and property in the same way, it is clearly the most unsocial way to do it, to lower the taxation of axes, because it then targets the richest. SV was first out of proposing to lower the corporate tax in the previous period. We were first faced with a proposal to seal the tax leakage that multinational companies represent, to the rest of the world, and we are strong followers of much better depreciation schemes to introduce those who invest and convert through a tough time for Norway. The government has several rounds, e.g. the Green Competitiveness Report, which they ordered, has also received a clear recommendation to reduce the favourable ratio by investing in ownership, so that capital can be moved towards industry and industry, or else. If Norway is to cope with the big green shift, we have to look at capital flows here in the country. We cannot have it so that the framework conditions for investing in petroleum and property are very favourable. Blowing up the real estate market creates social problems and causes a missing capital, which could otherwise have gone into building industry, building new jobs. If we're going to have a real green shift in this country, one must also get a shift in where the capital is going. This means I have to be one of the central discussions in Stortinget in the future – how are we going to get a real green shift? Norwegian industry has experienced a decline in the last two years. It is only within the food industry segment that we have seen growth, while other branches of industry are going badly – despite the fact that we have had very lucrative currency situations in Norway, with a weak dollar, which means that we are better able to sell Norwegian goods on the foreign market. So one has not been able to produce the crop that should have occurred when the prices of petroleum have fallen. Furthermore, the government has removed the favourable depreciation scheme introduced by the red-green government in its time to meet the challenges in the Norwegian industry. They have removed the scheme, which was a scheme of 1.8 billion. kr, which made it lucrative for industrial start-ups and for investing in Norwegian industry, which made the country take some of the risk of investing in new machinery. So we're in a situation where all the arrows would point towards building a strong Norwegian mainland industry, building new green industrial jobs, which can take over for the lost income we know will occur when the activity goes further down in the petroleum sector, but the government is passive. They don't meet this in an offensive way. They maintain the status quo when it relates to the tax system, making investment in property still significantly more favourable than investing in industry and other industries. So the big question for the Minister of Industry in this is, why should it be so, why should it be more beneficial to invest in ownership when we actually need it is to invest in new jobs, new industries and new industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1404	Thank you for the interpellation and for the opportunity to say something about an important theme that the government has been working on for a very long time. Access to capital may seem abstract, but it is simply about money put into jobs, about money put into businesses to grow, and about money put in to ensure Norwegian well-being. It is important for business, for job creation and for value creation, and therefore also important for our well-being. A lot of relationships depend on how advantageous it is to invest for those who want to place the money they have, or the capital. The expected profitability and risk are two key factors, and they go hand in hand. Increased risk may lead to increased returns but also greater losses. To look at where it was profitable to invest is after-sales time. Different events and risk factors will then play out. If negative events occur, it may have made investments unprofitable — and vice versa. It is therefore important to make the best possible choices when making the investment decision. Investment in property has some fundamental advantages compared to investments in other features. Property is a good mortgage, and it is usually a well-developed second-hand market for purchase and sale. Much of the bank's lending, both to households and to industry, is just given with real estate. It creates lower risks for the bank and cheaper loans to the borrower. These conditions increase interest in investing in property. It can also help enterprises in industries other than real estate companies to find it attractive to invest in property. In addition, property value developments have been good over a long period of time. It's the most beneficial thing for people, and it's also made it an attractive investment object. Many factors affect investment decisions. Both tax conditions, different types of regulation and market conditions lead to a shift in returns between industries, including between investments in different sectors within each industry. The interesting thing in this context is, of course, what can be affected by political decisions. We're elected people who decide the taxes. We are the ones who decide whether to have a competitive international tax level, whether to have a tax level that goes up or down, and we are the ones who decide – at least to a large extent – whether to have a tax debate that links tax levels to well-being and jobs in the private sector, or whether to have a tax debate that only looks at personal consumption. It is true, as the interpellant says, that some tax rules have contributed to making property investment more advantageous. For Norwegian private owners, it becomes particularly clear since Norwegian investors, unlike foreign investors, have to pay property taxes. By raising loans, usually secured by property, property taxes can often be reduced. This is one of the things that we see most clearly, for example. when the tax lists are provided. It can be seen that the combination of high taxes on capital — in and of itself a rather strange tax — which is again often placed in jobs, and a slightly more favourable tax regime for property can, along with tax planning, result in the outcome described by the interpellant. As I will come back to, we have reduced the differences in the taxation of various investments in this period of government. Therefore, it is now more tax-effective to invest in business than before. In other words, we have made it so that for a person who has money to place, it is taxably a little more favourable than before to place them in e.g. an enterprise, and a little less favourable for tax purposes, to place it in property. Financial regulation is also involved. The requirements imposed on the bank’s equity and on lending affect the cost of borrowing capital. Other policy decisions through multi-level regulation also affect investment, e.g.: municipal and state property development, availability of land ready for construction, etc. The profitability of investments is also affected by market conditions. Markets act as meanings and information providers about what is too little and what is too much of it, and therefore about what should be produced more by and less by it. Some industries may experience increased demand, positive prospects, increased prices, increased profitability and increased returns, while others may experience the opposite. The oil and gas industries and the supplier industry have experienced both in the last few years. Large variations have also been experienced by the shipping industry over and over again, and they have learned that the perceived risk, which in practice is linked to any investment, varies the realised profitability. Expectations for the future are important. Many believe that the risk of investing in property has been, and is, low. Positive expectations and increased demand, together with favourable taxation, higher income, low interest rates and limited new construction, have helped to boost prices. Some will probably be able to claim that capital has accumulated into property. In any case, as a political point, this government has repeatedly stressed that it is an objective that more of our money should be invested in jobs in Norway, and then directly in enterprises and a little less in property. At the same time, there is reason to believe that property will be an attractive investment object in the future, too, but that it will be as attractive as it has been in recent decades is not certain. Because although it has been beneficial for many to invest in property in recent years, it can change quickly. The level of interest rates is of great importance, especially for investments that require a lot of capital, and it makes property. Higher interest rates may help to flip the image. Negative expectations as well. Households’ high levels of indebtedness and population trends can generally be recorded. Therefore, investing in housing is not risk-free. The development of housing markets in the United States in the last financial crisis is an example of this. Of course, the corresponding things can affect commercial property. Increased online trade can do something about the profitability of trade in goods. Digitalisation, artificial intelligence and robotization can do something about the need for office space. Nor is it risky to invest in commercial property, an example of which is the banking crisis in Norway in the late 1980s. As I have already said, the government is concerned that we have to spend the money and the capital we have, where it can make the most of it. The tax system is not only to determine this, but the tax system can stimulate or dampen something else. We've lowered taxes and taxes by 25 billion during the period we've been sitting. kr. The company tax is reduced, making it more profitable to invest in business, plus making us competitive compared to other countries. Income taxes have been reduced, it makes working more profitable. The tax on wealth has been reduced and the deduction is increased, it increases profitability and reduces the risk to private Norwegian owners by investing in business, and it facilitates the establishment of new businesses. At the same time, the provision of taxes on wealth has also gradually changed, making it more profitable to invest in enterprises and a little less profitable, relative, to invest in property. All of this contributes to job creation and value creation and helps to improve some of the issues addressed by the interpellant. The fact that taxes on different investments are more equal is good for individuals and for society. As I said, it is therefore important that it becomes less tax-friendly to invest in property rather than in other industrial activities. It can also provide more jobs in the long term. To sum up, this government is committed to facilitating the creation of value in private business, because it provides jobs and well-being. We are concerned that resources are used where they create the greatest values, both for individuals and for society. It will increase the profitability of investments in business, create more jobs, and create more total value creation, which in turn provides a basis for higher well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1447	First of all, I would say it is positive that the Council of State recognizes that one should reduce the favourable regime that one has for ownership, so that one can use the capital better. It is a fact that there is no shortage of capital in Norway, but he is only misplaced, as these billionaires point out, as the Scheel selection points out, as the Menon analysis, which the government ordered when they carried out green competitiveness, concluded, and which basically claims what can creep and walk from economists. One has to do something about the extremely asymmetric, the imbalance in taxation, between ownership on one side and job creation on the other, in industry, etc. This asymmetry means that every time the government comes with new tax havens, the gravity is so that it is overturned into the property market. 25 B.C.E. The Council of State said that one has cut taxes, and one can still not see that this has led to new jobs. Well, in that case, it's our It's quite well done. Today, property is subsidised indirectly by several tens of billions a year. There are tax deductions on interest on debt. There's no national housing tax, and then we have the municipal housing tax, which the government still wants to remove, with the result that placing money in property becomes more profitable. In addition, the valuation of property in the property tax is very low and not equal to other property items. So you get an extra asymmetry there. I think that if Norway is going to be able to go through a green shift and actually get the capital used where it needs to, with the enormous possibilities we have within the new industrial regime, the amazing possibilities Norway has with a highly skilled workforce, access to a lot of cheap power and large natural resources – if we're really going to make it change, we have to start looking at how the tax system is going to favor what we want more of. As everyone in the room knows, we won't be able to do anything green over the next decade, which we have to, if we don't get anything done with the way this is organized. Finally, in Norway today, industry represents 8 pst. of gross domestic product. It is very low in European context. Our Nabolanda has the goal of coming up in 20 pst. It's considered to be a sane economy. If we're going to be able to get Norwegian industry up at the level in Norway, one has to do something about the asymmetry that one has created and under which the government builds up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1458	As I said, this is an important discussion, but I am probably not quite convinced that the Socialist Left has the solutions to this. It was a serious understatement – I am convinced that they do not have the solutions to this. So some comments about the interpellant: it is quite right that any economist – almost without exception – would say two things: they would say that first of all tax has some consequences. The second thing they're saying is, it's much better to tax property harder and, for example, working capital or other type of capital lessen. SV's solution to tax only capital hard, both property and housing and everything else hard, is not a contribution to Norwegian business. It's rather the opposite. So to the second point: that's why we who sit in this room, not just are economists and not just listen to economists. It is obvious that the debt deduction that most people in Norway benefit from also has the consequence that it will be easier to invest more in housing, pay more for housing, take on larger loans — obviously. At the same time, it is also obvious that if you had had a government housing tax, which most people in Norway paid, it would also dampen the desire to invest in Norway. Those are purely economic points. At the same time you can ask yourself the question: what would it do to ordinary people's wallet and the economy in Norway? It's the way that a lot of economists, precisely because they only use economic perspectives on this, are blind to, for example, the value of housing ownership in Norwegian history, the value of the fact that most people, including as a social cohesion measure, own housing in Norway and do not have to rent housing, that we have relatively low thresholds in the real estate market compared to many other countries, and that things such as these are. The deduction of interest is an important contribution to middle-class welfare in Norway. That means that I think it is entirely possible to do something about this without either starting with introducing a government housing tax for everyone or starting with removing the deductions of debt. The rational thing is to do what the government does, to do something with the property tax, both lower it in total and at the same time increase the value of property, so that all in all it becomes a little less favourable to investing in property compared to investing in other objects. It will largely be in shares or jobs or directly into enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1469	I would like to thank the interpellant for travelling a completely necessary discussion. But I think the discussion is even wider than that interpellant and the Council of State now comes to mind about the taxation of property. I agree that if you ignore the home you are going to live in, it's a matter of doing something about the tax system relating to property, and it's an advantage to turn tax incentives more into forward-looking and secure jobs. Six years ago, the Right Mantra had the fact that there was a two-part division in the Norwegian economy that was quite serious. They even attacked the red-green government with the fact that there was a two-part division in the economy, where the oil and gas activity was what was the driver. Then we got a government change, and we got the mantra about conversion into Norwegian economy. Converting to something other than oil and gas was the mantra both from Erna Solberg and from the time Minister of Industry Mæland. But there has been very little, there has been no transformation, there has been no transformation into the Norwegian economy in the five years when the Right has been in a significant managerial position. It has not given the results that you might expect to come out of the changes that the Minister of Industry is now presenting. It should be a cause for concern that no more will be created, that there will be no more investment in forward-looking jobs from a Minister of Industry. I'm deeply concerned that one really minimizes a little bit of the problem, like one does through the answers. Last year the NHO was very clear, and they had a headline on plans, which they traveled around preaching when they were at conferences, that we in Norway were building road and housing, not businesses for the future. This year they have moderated this somewhat, but last year they were very clear that there were errors invested in Norway. This year, LO has taken up the same thread. I think it's essential to notice that they're saying, ‘The economy has had time to adapt to a historically low level of interest rates, weak growth in household purchasing power and social dumping in the labour market. The consequence is that money has been channelled into the housing market and jobs created, low productivity and low robustness when setbacks occur in the economy.» I think there's a basis for listening to what NHO said last year, and what LO says this year. How can we make sure that we appear to be a more attractive country to invest in secure future jobs? I think, among other things, that we need to find more unitedly in this room some basic foundations for how we are going to deal with it. The Workers' Party has contributed to this through, inter alia: its approach to consensus on significant tax issues. But I also think it's absolutely necessary that we look at other influences to have a greater attraction than what we have. We were at the Zero Conference recently. Alcoa must invest in a new aluminium melting line, and they do so in Canada, because in Canada the prerequisites and framework conditions for that kind of new work are more competitive than in Norway. Why are we not a preferred country to invest in the type of technology that Alcoa will introduce? We got the Hydro investment on Karmøy thanks to the red-green government establishing a fund scheme under Enova to go to that kind of support, and today's government has continued it. Is there any number of such instruments, which will make us increasingly invested in forward-looking and secure jobs, or is it the one-sided belief that it is the tax and tax discussions that have actually proved to be debatable over the last five years, which will be allowed to take hold at the top of the political debate on this in the future? I believe that a much larger number of instruments must start to discuss that are specifically geared towards the different industries where we actually have the advantage of succeeding – it is within the maritime industry, within the marine industries, within renewable inputs such as hydropower, wind power, fisheries, etc., for which we can facilitate to a much greater extent. I also believe that we have significant opportunities in the health industry and other types of new – to say – exciting future industries, but some of the problem is that much of the device on capital, including from the state, the public, has too short-term perspectives in relation to what the ideas, creativity and opportunities have seen as demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1489	In Norway, we have skilled workers, we have companies that are now taking initiatives and looking at how to be involved in this phase by using the renewable natural resources we have to create greater values in Norway. So there's an incredibly good thing going on in the individual workplace. But the question that we are invited to discuss today is: What does development look like for Norwegian society as a whole? Then it's interesting to go in and look at the actual numbers, for example. from the SSB. On 7 September this year, the SSB could tell us that the development of industrial production in Norway looks very weak in view of the ambitions we are discussing today. It had only increased by 0.4 pst. – 0,4 pst. - from May to July. We know that there are great opportunities for better development when we look at the countries around us. In Sweden, investment in industry is rising at the same level — something that says about how much work and value creation it will be in the next few years — as before the financial crisis, while in Norway it is flat. So what was going to be a green shift in Norway seems to be a gray stop. That means that this must be something that we can really tackle together in the Great Britain, in order to reinforce and improve the social development that we have chosen to do something with. That is why today I want to challenge the Minister of Industry whether he sees the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, with over 2 billion. More on value creation and new jobs, is the right step to take in order to raise industrial investment in Norway. We believe that it is very important to give priority, because as mentioned, we see that there are things that need to be done to ensure the welfare state of tomorrow. Just think about this: if we had had the same share of work today in Norway as 10 years ago, it would have strengthened the state budget by 50 billion. kr – 50 br. kr as we, among others could have been spent on even larger investments in new industries. We could have used them to develop new technologies for climate-friendly transport, we could have invested in hospitals and better schools for our children. That's why the theme we're discussing today is a question of what our country will look like in the next few years. For the Workers' Party and the Labour Movement, the part of the policy that is about the Creator's side has always been important, because we know that it is a prerequisite for also distributing values. During the period of strong industrial policy involvement in Norway, it was important for workers to ensure that we backed up all the forces that wanted to establish industry, because we know that there is a way to distribute values. There is also a need for this, because at a time when industrial investment is weak, we also see that the economic differences in Norway are increasing. So there's a context here -- there's a clear context. And when the value of what we produce in Norway falls, as imports increase, it means to a large extent that those values have to be financed differently. That is why there is also a link from today's theme to the increased debt that we see in Norway. I welcome the Minister of Industry's response to the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, with over 2 billion. For investment in value creation and work, a place to start is to improve social development in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1508	The Securities Association had a survey of issues on the stock exchange in recent years to see what kind of capital it was that participated in issues, that is, when the share base of an enterprise is expanded. They found that almost inconclusive was Norwegian capital in the company, which expanded with a value of 200 million. kr. So what we're talking about here is Norwegian capital. And when you've made it so lucrative to put money into property versus industry that we have today, you can run on as much as you want with tax bills and with different types of schemes here and there. But the force of gravity goes where it's most lucrative to place the money. It becomes a black hole, with both major social effects, by inflating a sector that makes it hard for young people to come in, and it gets big business effects, by using capital completely incorrectly, based on what's the big challenges of our time. So either one is blue, yellow, or green -- or red -- one has to see that we have to do something with the distribution here if one is to get a wider shift. Property may, for example: did not escape. The right-hand side and the left-hand side are all a few that tax evasion is a bad thing, but taxing property is kind of an ideal taxing object because it can't move out of the country. On the other hand, industry, like the Aasland representative, can do. They can choose to establish themselves completely elsewhere, and so do they. That means that if you don't do anything about this asymmetry, you won't get the big shift, where we're getting industry stronger and we're getting new, green jobs for the future that can replace what we have today from petroleum. It's simply impossible. And then it's the public dimension of this. Yes, the public can do something about depreciation rules, for example. public take more risks when purchasing more equipment. We can do something about the innovation system, the Research Council, etc., but this is, when it comes to the problem, only a small part of the job. One must also do something about the general framework conditions set here. That's what I'm missing from the Council of State, which I hope he can finally answer: how can a few move – the great move – of capital from a much more passive position in ownership, with the great social consequences it gets, into active industry and other industries, the great green shift put in a metaphor: the property industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1521	So we have a full toolbox. Only for the purpose of taking the upper hand, which applies to all industries: a massively historically high commitment to transport – it is directly favourable and good for Norwegian business a level of research now in excess of 1 pst. – away from cross-section, a doubling of nutrient research; All of this is directly relevant, important and crucial not only for established Norwegian businesses, not only for industry but also for new jobs. In addition, we have instruments that go straight into the industry. The first industrial communication since 1980 was presented by this government. What are we launching there? Indeed, direct action against industry, such as the catapult system, e.g., the test centre both for the large, established and for the new ones. We are expanding the guarantee arrangements, so that large Norwegian industrial companies, such as those on Her Island in Grenland, where I come from, and where the representative Lien Aasland comes from, who has a high export share, can just get a guarantee for large investments in Norway. All of this is the sum of an overall policy that works, but also a targeted industrial policy and a maritime policy towards the marine industries, which in combination has given us an economic situation where Norway is doing well. Then ask a representative if I believe that the Workers' Party's alternative state budget is a good solution to the problems we are facing. I didn't intend to mention it on my own, and I have to admit that I don't know why the representative wants to hurt himself so much, because the answer to that is obviously no. Just let me take one illustrative example from the Workers' Party's alternative state budget: we need capital – that's what we're talking about here – into jobs, into growth businesses. Then we need capital from the state – the Workers' Party is pretty good at it. They write generously and well about how important it is to have capital for business, especially for growth industries. But then they stop at the moment it's about someone other than public capital. There we have also contributed, with Nysnø, for example, who otherwise must invest both in climate and have profitable investments, but then 2 billion. kr on various measures part of public capital. But in the case of private capital, i.e. individuals who are going to go in and invest, the Workers' Party is turning the other way around. Then it's an increase, as far as I remember, of 5 billion. What is the premise for this debate? Well, it's that capital that's taxed makes you get less money to put into jobs, emerging industries and growth businesses. So the first question of very many to the Workers' Party's nutrient profile in their alternative budget is, where has it become of the three billion that you spend on something completely different? If you are so deeply concerned that companies need capital, why are you then only occupied by public capital, not by private capital? Otherwise, I can say that a good contribution to converting Norway into an emergency and in a bad way would be to close down all new search drilling.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1546	Then this interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1564	All the honors of Dagbladet, who have chosen to run this case. What happens at sea often goes under the radar of Norwegian publicity, so the newspaper has done a serviceful job of discovering just the inhumane conditions at sea. So there are companies that are willing to go beyond what we can to get profit for themselves. They exploit low-regulated sea areas with rich fish stocks. They make the most use of workers in order to get the most income from slave-like contracts and miserable working conditions, where we have been warned that workers are not allowed to land, that some have been thrown to the sea because they are careless, that there is not enough food or water, that people are given great mental and physical stress. We've read about individual ships like Dimitri Kravtsjenko, the great-grandfather of Ukraine, who had been looking for hire on one of these ships to secure the poor family income, but who described the conditions on the boat as a hell before he died abruptly, following the rudder layer because of neglect. We've read the history of 50 Indonesians who had received an entry visa from the U.D. on the basis of what might be called slave contracts, with 18 hours working days and 6 hours of sleep for a monthly payment of $4,000 and a carton of smoke. Norway's most famous human trafficking lawyer, State Attorney Rudolf Christoffersen, my contracts indicate that there may be a violation of the human trafficking paragraph. The fact that a practice like this has been performed with the base in Norway is totally unacceptable. And it hasn't been any well-hidden secret either. Russian seafarers have called Båtsfjord ‘pirathamna’ and ‘pirat village’. In 2016, the Russian Maritime Federation received fifty messages from Russian seafarers who had worked 16 hours a month without sleeping days, on broken ships, under dangerous conditions. The reveal must have consequences. Norwegian authorities must take the initiative to put an end to this situation effectively. But what we haven't read is what the government thinks about this. That's where it's very quiet. Originally, I am sending this interpellation to the Minister for Fisheries because this piracy is undermining the entire fishing industry. It is quite contrary to Norwegian interests that this business exists. It is in Norwegian interests to bring her to life. It also represents large loss of income, as dumping of wages and working conditions directly affects the prices of berths and the world market for Norwegian catches. The interpellation could be addressed to several Councils of State: the Minister of Foreign Affairs is responsible for issuing visas on the basis of slave contracts, the Minister of Justice is responsible for police and Coast Guard, the Minister of Industry is responsible for the maritime regulations at sea, the Minister of Fisheries is responsible for fisheries. What the newspaper has highlighted is not new to the government either. We know that there are signs to the government – from the police, the Coast Guard and the Coast Guard. They've been sent up the system – to the government. Why has the government not done more to prevent these inhuman conditions? What does the government do to strengthen regulation in international waters? What is the government doing to strengthen control in the Norwegian economic zone? Why does one sleep an hour when it comes to social dumping? And concretely: what is the reason why the U.D., when they see that contracts open up is social dumping, as it is described – with a pack of smoke in payment, etc. – provides visas for transit? Shouldn't control make sure it stops there? Should one at all allow entry when applying for slave contracts? Should one just let it go? What is the reason why the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for the police and the policeman and the Coast Guard, has not given clearer instructions on how police authorities should handle this type of labour? When the Coast Guard, who performs checks on the field, comes across unworthy conditions, which they still do away with, what should they do? Have they been instructed to follow up? Have other authorities been instructed to follow up where they are based – that those who work on the boats actually live in Norway? E.g. etc. In addition, we have the broad, big political issue of snow crab fishing, where the EU has allowed snow crab fishing, but without – must be a faith – to check who is behind these routes. Does the government have EU alerts on our alerts? Has the government made the EU aware of the unworthy circumstances of the boats? There are a lot of different questions coming up here. I am pleased that the Minister of Industry takes responsibility for this, knowing that there are many others in the government who are responsible. One could have called them in rows and rows, but I expect that the Minister of Industry is in good dialogue with the rest of the government and able to answer some of the questions raised by this tragic case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1587	Thank you to the interpellant for an important interpellant. It is absolutely right that these are responsibilities for several departments involved. The reason why this interpellation ended up with me is that there are the safety aspects of shipping and international rules around what is the most important part of the interpellation, and not necessarily the fisheries policy aspects of industrial policy, although they are obviously there as well. This did not start with the public debate. The public debate started seriously with the series «Crab War» in the newspaper, but it is not that this was completely unknown or had not been problematised in the past. This series of articles paints a gloomy picture of the working and living conditions of seafarers on board the Latvian fishing vessels ‘Valka’ and ‘Kalmar’. This is not working conditions or living conditions that we accept on Norwegian fishing vessels, nor is it what we want on foreign fishing vessels that participate in Norwegian fishing and fishing activities, or on vessels that supply catches at Norwegian reception. It is important that the newspaper focuses on the matter, and I want to praise them for it. In Norway, one of the main tasks of the Directorate for Maritime Affairs is to supervise ships in Norwegian waters. For Norwegian ships – i.e. ships registered in the Norwegian register of ships flying the flag of Norway — relate to a comprehensive national safety legislation, with regard to the construction, construction and equipment of the ship itself and not least to the working and living conditions of those working on board. By virtue of being a flag State, the Norwegian authorities carry out regular inspections and checks on these ships. For foreign ships, the starting point is that the country of origin/flag State of the ship concerned — in this case Latvia — certifies and controls the ship. At the same time, it is important to stress that this does not exempt us from also controlling foreign ships located in Norway. This is primarily done in the context of port State controls, which means that Norway, as a port State, controls security on board non-resident ships calling at Norwegian ports. The requirements of the Ship Safety Act also apply to foreign ships, and in cases where there is a risk to the lives and health of seafarers, there is no doubt that Norwegian authorities can and should act. If the Maritime Directorate suspects that the conditions on board a foreign ship are as serious as those described in the present case, for example: because they have received notices of concern, they will carry out supervision of the ship at calls to Norwegian port. The Directorate for Maritime Affairs may also request assistance from the Coast Guard. The Coast Guard has both control and police authority, they can board the ship, or they can bring it to Norwegian port for possible criminal prosecution. The Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs is working systematically to detect conditions on ships that could endanger the safety of life, health, the environment and material values. Work also focuses on carrying out a risk-based supervisory activity. This means that analyses are carried out to identify the main hazards to maritime safety and to organise controls and actions. In addition, it is important for the Maritime Directorate to receive concerns or otherwise be made aware of critical circumstances, which enable them to deal with specific issues. The story of Dimitri Kravtsjenko makes a very strong impression. Once again in Ukraine, there's a wife, but also one now four-year-old boy growing up without his father. It clearly shows the importance of the work of the Maritime Directorate. Unfortunately, there were no comments of concern in the matter that could be followed up, and no supervision was carried out on the ship. As the representative refers to, Norway is one of the leading ports in the world, and it is obvious to us that we are to safeguard the well-being of seafarers. For seafarers on board fishing vessels, I would like to highlight in particular the ILO Convention 188 on working conditions in the fisheries sector, which has been ratified by Norway and which entered into force on 16 November 2017. The purpose of the Convention is to ensure that workers in the fisheries sector are better at work, safety and health at sea and that sick and injured fishermen are treated ashore. The Convention also lays down rules on adequate rest, protection by written employment contracts and equivalent social protection to that of other workers. I would also like to stress that over several years, the Maritime Directorate has worked specifically to improve the safety of Norwegian fishing vessels. Including, in 2015, larger fishing vessels were required to have a certified safety management system, the ISM Code, which clarifies the company’s responsibilities and duties in all aspects of operations. In addition, major regulatory changes have been made to improve safety on board smaller fishing vessels with a view to reducing the number of accidents. Norway has a strong focus on the safety of fishing fleets and shipping in general. It's valuable knowledge that we're taking with us into the work on international regulation. The government wants Norway to remain an active driver in the bodies that produce global legislation – we have to be – such as the UN Maritime Organisation, the IMO, and the ILO. We need to work for greater uptake of international conventions, and not least we need to work for effective implementation. In this specific case, I will, as the interpellant was also inside, ensure that it is addressed in our meetings with the EU on shipping matters. The European Commission needs to address the issue more clearly. This must be done by encouraging Member States to ratify the international conventions, but above all it must be done by ensuring that the protection of seafarers on board European fishing vessels is strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1612	I would like to thank the Council of State for taking matters seriously and assuming a co-ordination responsibility on the part of the government in this matter. It is obvious that it is necessary, so it does not fall between two chairs and no one takes it over. I would also like to thank the Council of State for taking us through the legislation and the various actors' responsibilities in this matter. At the same time, the Council of State, as far as I see and hear, does not announce an escalation of control and clearer instructions in the situation we have today. It is open to all who have read the case in the newspaper, that something has happened quite openly, in a port like Båtsfjord, without anyone having done anything about the matter. Here has opened a single single sleep per hour. The Marine Association has repeatedly warned of unworthy sea conditions, and rarely will it be properly followed up. But we can't make ourselves dependent on the Marines' Federation alone to do this control on ports to board ships. They do a very important job, but we need police, coast guard, directorate, etc. to do the main job in this matter. We can't sleep in the hour when we see this happening. Not least when UD drops 50 indonesians into the country for transit, based on slave contracts, it must be seen as a problem and a problem. It shall not be possible. Is there anything the Council of State would like to raise with the Minister of Foreign Affairs? Whenever one can board boats where the employment and work contracts are miserable, or when Coast Guards in the field border ships where it is revealed that there is a breach of the law, does a clear enough instruction for the police to do so? My strong impression is: No, it doesn't. Thus, this enterprise continues in daylight, as it does, and one can call boat fjord a maritime port, a pirate village. The Council of State says that one has a strong focus on this. But this case must have been a real trigger for the government as well – one has actually not had strong enough focus when this is allowed to take place. It should be a real wake-up to everyone that something is happening at sea that undermines Norwegian pay and work conditions, and not least human dignity, at the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1623	To some of the questions raised by the interpellant: Let me first just repeat that we have, take – and will have – a responsibility also to control foreign ships operating in Norway, I'll say more about it. But at the same time, it is also important to balance it against the obligations of shipping companies, because we have to be very clear that shipping companies have a duty to provide good employment for their employees. We have to supervise the detection of infringements, but it does not in any way relieve employers of their responsibilities. It is important that we also give clear information when we raise this issue internationally. I described how the Maritime Directorate oversees foreign ships, how they cooperate with the Coast Guard. That cooperation they themselves believe – I am told – works well, but they depend on getting tips on possible breaches of the rules and irresponsible employment. That is how the inspection scheme has been set up, and in this specific case – as I mentioned in my introduction – I was not aware of any specific tips about it. But when that is said, it is quite natural that both the Ministry of Food and Fisheries and the Directorate of Maritime Affairs use this matter and the whole problem complex for further awareness and to see if there is anything we can learn. When I used the words "strong focus," I referred to what we do internationally. I mentioned ILO 188, which unfortunately few countries have ratified. Norway has an interest in — and we also believe that it is good for industry — working for better conditions internationally and lifting, among others. security, environmental issues and HMS issues on the international agenda. So let's do that. We're going to keep going. And as I mentioned in my article, we are also going to – on the basis of this specific case – lift it up into our conversations with the EU. With regard to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Foreign Affairs must respond specifically to the practice they have there. However, as I understand it, the embassies receiving the visa applications do not have the opportunity to refuse. At the same time, as I understand it, there was also contact between the embassy and the Norwegian authorities, i.e.. police authorities. But, as I said, when questions get so detailed, it's under the Secretary of State – she's the one who has to answer for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1636	I have to say that I was a little upset to follow up on this discussion that has been – both the questions from Knag Fylkesnes and the answers. The reason for this is that this is something that has almost gone under the radar. There has been little progress. We know that the Coast Guard and, among other things, The Orion flights to accompany in the Barents Sea have been greatly reduced. We have a few helicopters on the coastguard boats. Just having a helicopter makes it possible to get on quickly into a vessel that you want to have checked. It should not be that it is only when you get tips, you should check these boats, but also when you see that there might be a need to do so. It's important to focus on what the coastguard helicopters actually are. It is the Barents Sea law and order tool – nothing less. Now we see that maybe you're about to take these helicopters away from the Coast Guard, or you're about to risk getting a good weather guard with a civil helicopter, and then this billionaire of community resources will continue. Is there going to be a sustainable management of the community's resources with the way we're doing it now? No, I think that is completely wrong. Back to the fishermen who are on these boats and who often do not have insurance for damage should happen: they are not organized in any kind of fishing team either. I have been in contact with fishing teams today who say that people often get damage, including. a. that people get damaged teeth or what it should be, and not get this repaired because you don't have good enough arrangements for it. Safety courses for these onboard fishermen are often lacking. But there is no danger that this will be controlled, because the Coast Guard and those who are to control it rarely do so. What we also see is that some Norwegian vessels, coastal boats, etc., have crews from abroad. They often move to Norway and become Norwegian citizens, and that's good. I want to say that SV's interpellation is important. Genderism and greed often prevail on such vessels. Here we have to look at how to control fishing vessels that harvest in Norwegian waters, and how we want it to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1653	The only reason to be happy in this case is because we have media that actually reveals this brutality – because that's what it is. It's a terrible brutal story that we can't in any way be acquainted with. There are issues and responsibilities that lie there, which should have made everything really right, but it is not. I think it's some time one actually has to go to the pulpit and admit that we haven't done enough, that's right now. We cannot accept, as a port, a fishing nation or a significant international voice within the maritime environment, that there are actually such conditions out there on the sea. We need to find out to a much greater extent how we're going to be able to stop the brutality that's been revealed. It is good that the Minister of Industry goes through and refers to what is there, but the recognition is that it is not done enough. One may not be able at all times, either, to do enough as to how some will exploit other people to make money. Whether it is at sea or on a construction site, we often see that capital and participations take precedence. We have to constantly make sure that we are able to connect a system that prevents this kind of relationship. I am pleased, like the inter-pellant, that the Minister for Industry assumes a coordinating responsibility. I think it is absolutely necessary that this be followed up with stronger supervisory functions, better reporting, reporting, reporting, tips on these kinds of issues, and not least that we make sure that the various agencies work together to a greater extent to identify these kinds of issues when they happen in Norwegian waters or in Norwegian ports. I hope that the recognition of the Minister of Industry is actually that this case shows that we need to do much more to bring this brutality to life. If he can admit it, I think this interpellation has brought something good with it, because you've got the recognition that we need to focus on how we're going to avoid it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1666	First, thank you to the interpellant who has raised this important matter. It is almost disastrous to say that everyone knows that social dumping is taking place on board foreign fishing vessels fishing in Norwegian waters, which deliver in Norway, possibly in international waters and deliver in Norway. It is unacceptable for employees, whether on land or at sea, to be treated in the way we have read about in the media. The working party has always been aware that those who do work in Norway will have Norwegian pay and employment conditions, and we have had pay conditions in the fishing industry generalized. Six to seven years ago, we had a tragic example in my municipality of home, Másøy, where a Lithuanian youth of about two and a half years was born. 20 years, who were employed in a Lithuanian company and rented to a Norwegian fish processing company, lost two fingers in the cape machine. He was not entitled to Norwegian sick pay, so he was asked to receive Lithuanian sick pay, which at that time was approx. 2 000 kroner a month. You could ask yourself, ‘ Is it really that two fingers are so small? ’ It's tragic, and I hope that publishing makes things that can't happen on land today. Return to the situation of foreign seafarers. I believe that if we are to gain control of social dumping, control in the port must be intensified. It's clear that if we also had a helicopter and could have a ship out there, we could have a much more effective control. But we don't have enough control in port. There is one thing that is needed, and that is that the Labour Inspectorate must be given more resources. I think we need to prioritise this, everyone, whether we're in government or in opposition. And we have to give priority to the foreign ships that deliver in Norwegian ports. We cannot accept that this is happening either in Båtsfjord or in any other Norwegian port. I think it shrinks in the stomach of the boating fjords when they hear characteristics like that boating fjord is a pirate port. There is no fisherman who wants to have a stamp like that on him. I am pleased that the Minister of Economic Affairs said in his statement that the conditions revealed in the Newspaper articles are not acceptable for boats that deliver in Norway. I think that's good. That means that we have a common political approach to this: that this is totally unacceptable. If we don't do anything about it, it's about national propriety, and we can't close our eyes to these unworthy relationships. I think the broad perception of this makes it possible for us, if we want to do something, on a broad political level, to intensify controls and overcome the unworthiness of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1679	I would like to thank you for a good discussion and for some good articles. I think there's one very important question that says here, an important admission from the government that's left, so that this is an interpellation where we actually get one step further. But before I formulate that question, I just have to stay on some things here. I think we're all a few that this is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that people are treated in such a terrible way by cynical operators at sea, that some people are thrown at sea because they are anxious, that they have to eat bait to keep themselves alive, that there is too little water and food on board – these are the worst cases – that they get pay and work conditions that are hair-tracing, and that we don't do enough to control this and stop it, that it can go so openly, so in the daylight, that the actors escape – every day. This is so undermining for everything we stand for in Norway. We build our society on a Norwegian model, where people will be treated properly no matter what one does. One should get decent pay and working conditions, to live off, there should be no big difference between high and low. We have done so on land – and at sea. But this undermines everything, everything we have built on, and it also challenges the fishing fleet otherwise. There is a need for pressure on Norwegian wages and working conditions by allowing this, or by not controlling enough, that we are not doing enough to stop it. Norway has historically been one of the transit countries with a view to ensuring an internationally good code for this. It has been our international role. Despite the size of our population, we have had a big role in defining how the rules at sea should be. When Prime Minister Erna Solberg is going to be part of the United Nations Maritime Panel, I argued that this is part of the question she wants to raise there. There's a unique situation to do that. But then back to the big question, the big admission that I hope the government takes inward: does the government mean that one today does enough? For so far, the government has not gone so far as to say that one does not do enough. So far, the Council of State has referred to the legislation, which actors are responsible for what, the importance of alerts, etc. But when this enterprise is allowed to continue under the radar of Norwegian authorities – so far that Båtsfjord is called a “pirat village” – then the big question is: Will the Council of State admit here and now that we have not done enough, that we must do more?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1692	Thank you for an important and good interpellation and discussion. Let me start with the big picture internationally. It is quite right that Norway is a small country, but at sea we are a great force. We're a maritime power, and when we travel into the big world, when we accept the big world here, we do it based on not just strange values and views, but in what we think is right. We think it's right to have good conditions at sea, we think it's right to have good conditions for seafarers. To the fact that there are differences in countries based on living standards and where you are in your economy: of course. But that it should be at the expense of fundamental security, fundamental security, we believe it is wrong. That is why we need to continue our efforts internationally, because it is about committing other countries to common standards – not always at Norwegian level, but common standards that ensure, among other things. seafarers. So the cooperation between the Maritime Directorate and the Coast Guard is good today. As two representatives have mentioned, it is also such that the helicopter availability of the Coast Guard is somewhat limited. At the same time, the Helicopters of the Coast Guard have been ordered, the delivery is in progress, the phase-in must be completed by 2022. It's solid. It is also important to stress that the Ministry of Defence has given clear indications that the Coast Guard should give priority to active presence in the northern sea areas, and they have done so over several years. So for the summary, is this unacceptable? Yes, there's no doubt about it. Is this something we need to learn from? Yes, there's no doubt about it. And then the question is, do it enough, or have we done enough? I have one starting point, and that's that when such things occur, it's never right to say that we've done enough. So the starting point is always to say, what could we have done more of? Is there anything that could have been done better? I must again stress that we do not have evidence to say that there have been specific practices that have failed, or that it is due to resources or something like this, in this specific case. But the starting point must always be: what can we learn? What else should we do? That's also why the answer to the question of whether we've done enough: No, we haven't done enough. It will also be my starting point for further follow-up – not on this specific matter, but further follow-up of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1705	So the debate is on case No. Seven done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1723	The main objective of the Left's education policy is to provide equal opportunities for all children, regardless of background. Then we have to ensure that all children have access to kindergarten and high-quality school, regardless of their place of residence and the economy of their parents. The biggest educational revolution we've had in Norway in recent years is about the smallest children. From being an offer to a few children with two working parents at first, kindergarten has become an offer for everyone, and development has gone fast. In 2000, 62 pst went. of all children between one year and five years of age in kindergarten. Today it's over 91 pst. There are many reasons for this development, but in any case it gives us a unique opportunity to balance differences from an early age. Kindergarten is potentially important for the development, learning and future of children. We know that kindergarten is the most important thing for those young people who get little follow-up at home – a good kindergarten can have a bearing on how they succeed at school and in the workplace, and thus have a great smoothing effect. The general opinion is that Norwegian kindergartens are good. The vast majority of parents are very satisfied, showing parental studies. Compared with other public offerings and funding, kindergartens actually come to the fore. I think most parents share the experience I have, both when I'm around the country visiting kindergartens, or when I deliver and pick up my own children in their kindergartens, namely that you meet engaged and safe adults and educators, that they have good routines and exciting arrangements, and that the kids thrive, evolve and feel good. Nevertheless, research shows us that the quality is fragile, and that the differences are too big. A little over a year ago, the results of the research project ‘Blick for children’ were presented. The researchers found here disturbing conditions in some of the Norwegian kindergartens. Most seriously, researchers find that the safety of the children is too poor. There's also a lack of hygiene. Many kindergartens have poor handwashing practices, and this leads to a lot of disease. Nor is it good at all places when it comes to the interaction between adults and children, the very core of what gives good quality in kindergarten. Nor are Norwegian kindergartens good enough to irritate children’s curiosity and exploration, showing the study. In general, kindergartens are very sensitive to care and the participation of children, but lower on what helps to stimulate the development of children. One study does not give us the fascination about how Norwegian kindergartens are, and several researchers have asked questions about whether the indicators used in this study are the right ones. But many years of kindergarten researcher Berit Bae says that this research confirms the individual studies have shown before, namely that the quality of Norwegian kindergartens varies. She believes that there is a strong link between framework conditions and quality, and that in many kindergartens large groups of children and not enough qualified staff have been present in a developing way for the young. This has recently been done by Stortinget by adopting a recruitment standard for all Norwegian kindergartens. It shall ensure that there is one adult per three children under three years of age and one adult per six children over three years of age. In addition, there is an enhanced standard of education. There shall now be one pedagogical director per seven children under three years of age and one pedagogical director per fourteen children over three years of age. These are important measures to ensure a minimum standard of crew and competence in all kindergartens. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that it is important that we follow developments when this norm is introduced, and look at the adult density towards the children throughout the day, to ensure that the norm is adhered to, and that we achieve what is the intent of the norm – that the children get more time with adults. Long opening times, low temporary use and more planning time are factors that can make staffing still not feel good enough, and it is important to stress that the norm is only a minimum standard – children’s gardening needs to get at an even higher level of staffing. I think there are also several things we should look at whether we can raise nationally, in order to ensure a smoother and higher quality in all Norwegian kindergartens. We have to make it possible for all children to have a qualitatively good offer, regardless of how large the nursery is, where in the country it is, and what form of ownership it has. Then we need to see if we have put the right conditions for kindergartens today. I invited various actors in the kindergarten sector to a hearing a few weeks ago, including the following: Some of the largest kindergarten chains, such as Espira, Läringsverstedet and Norlandia, Oslo Municipality – which is a large nursery home – stand-alone actors, Education Association, Educational Students and kindergarten researchers Berit Bae. The feedback from such a consultation was unmistakably positive: finally, we get the opportunity to discuss the quality of kindergartens! It was found at the hearing that several of the private kindergarten chains have interesting quality assessment and development systems from which others can learn. Both children and parents are heard, and educators regularly evaluate their methods, and they evaluate each other. Oslo Municipality is now going to set up a system to ask children about their experiences of kindergarten. That's very good, but that's something some of the private kindergartens have done for years already. One of those invited, Skistua Kindergarten, was named the best private kindergarten in the year. The pedagogues from the kindergarten highlighted the importance of a good working environment and low sick leave. Furthermore, they considered that the development of motor skills should be more focused, including natural experiences. Here at Stortinget we have been very concerned with physical activity in school, but it is also important to facilitate that children in kindergarten get to be active and on the go. One interesting point in the debate is that the Skistua, because of its location, is primarily an offer for children in Holmenkollen. It is a very good offer, and they would like to expand to other parts of the city, but with today's policy, where the Municipality of Oslo in practice says no to all new kindergartens, that is not possible. I feel that many kindergartens work very well with quality, and I think it is every nursery that has to be responsible for quality development. We have to use the competence of the pedagogues, and there has to be room to do this differently, so that we don't get too much of either state or municipal detailed control of the contents of the nursery. As politicians, however, we must have a clear expectation that this quality work will be done everywhere. However, an important input from Jørgen Runrven, who runs a recognised natural kindergarten, was that we have too little research on what works. Although he as a kindergarten owner, who is with the kids every single day, feels quite confident that what he does is good, he doesn't know enough about the results of it in the longer term. We know something about the transition from kindergarten to school, but we need more knowledge about the effect of the different initiatives in kindergarten on the outside of school. At the beginning of the 2000s, the children’s garden debate was primarily about the price and number of places, because it was important then. Too many children did not have access to kindergarten, and the prices were many places so high that some children were excluded from the kindergarten community. However, after an extensive effort by both municipalities and private actors, most of those who are now in a position to do so have a place. Now we have a golden opportunity to talk about quality. It's both about our kids having a good everyday life here and now, and it's about getting the best conditions for the rest of their lives. But unfortunately, the issue of ownership dominates the kindergarten debate. For the children, it is irrelevant whether the owner is a municipality, or whether it is Espira, Norlandia, Kanvas or the parents in the nursery. For children in kindergarten, the play and learning environment is the most important, the relationship with adults and with the other children. We have now set up a standard of personnel and education that makes an important contribution to quality, and I am pleased that we are going to evaluate the supervision system for kindergartens. Several kindergartens have good systems to assess and improve the quality of their kindergartens, but I would like to hear what the Council of State thinks about how we can continue to work to ensure good quality in all Norwegian kindergartens. How does the Council of State think we can ensure that all children have a quality kindergarten offer, regardless of whether the nursery is private or public?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1761	I want to thank you for an important interpellation. I agree with the representative of Guri Melby that our responsibility is to promote and ensure good quality in the childcare facilities for the children, no matter what kindergarten they go to. About 280,000 children go to kindergarten, and about half go to a kindergarten owned by others than the municipality. Therefore, it is important that our efforts to develop quality meet all kindergartens, small and large, private as municipal. Quality is important for the well-being, learning and further development of children. This applies not least to the most vulnerable children. Kindergarten is one of the most important common arenas in society. Here are the vast majority of children, regardless of their social or cultural background, and here's an arena where parents meet, and where as a society we have an arena to meet parents, regardless of background. For minority-speaking children, kindergarten is also an important integration area, and kindergarten gives minority-speaking children the opportunity to learn Norwegian and build friendships with other children. The importance of kindergarten for this group is well documented. In the government's integration strategy, we have placed great emphasis on early efforts and the importance of building up economic and cultural barriers in order to have more children from families with a migrant background to kindergarten. The government is now preparing a paper on early efforts and inclusive communities. There we will consider proposals and new knowledge from, among other things: two important reports. One comes from the expert group for children and young people in need of separate organisation, which was led by Thomas Nordahl. The other comes from the selection led by Camilla Stoltenberg, who looks at gender differences in school performances. We know that boys are overrepresented in special education and school drop-outs. Too many people get help too late. The kindergarten is important, even when it comes to early work, including: for the language development of boys. In the Communication, we will clarify the role of kindergarten in creating inclusive communities in which all children, regardless of their background, will have the opportunity to develop their potential. Divergence in childcare services is important. Diversity can contribute to innovation and learning. We need to ensure that our instruments contribute to raising the quality of all kindergartens, regardless of their ownership. The new framework plan came in 2017. It shows what ambitions and expectations we have for kindergarten. It has clear quality requirements and a clear description of roles and responsibilities. The implementation of the framework plan is well underway and shall be evaluated. The Education Directorate makes free support material to help realise the ambitions of the framework plan in all kindergartens around the country. We have introduced a standard of manning and an enhanced standard of pedagogical practice. This is important. Some safe adults and good competences are important for the quality of childcare services. Good transitional arrangements shall prevent small private kindergartens from becoming harmful due to economic difficulties in complying with the standards. The lack of ownership structure and educational profiles gives parents freedom of choice and can contribute to strengthening innovation and quality development. In 2018, we're going to spend 400 million. SEK for increased quality and competence in kindergarten, and for 2019 we propose to increase the allocation to SEK 430 million. kr. The competence of staff is a key factor in enhancing the quality of the supply. The competence strategy for the period 2018-2022 has targeted actions for all recruitment groups. It allows them to update their skills through continuing training. It is the responsibility of the owner to ensure that the nursery is adequately and appropriately competent, but the government also contributes to the provision of facilities to owners who have employees for the provision of skills. Kindergarten-based competence measures covering the entire human resources group have a good effect. Here, we're going to increase our effort in the future. Increased skills are particularly important in the fight against bullying and for a good childcare environment. We have launched comprehensive measures aimed at kindergarten and school, dealing with both legislation, empowerment and practical work against bullying. Many kindergartens are involved in competence measures for a good care and learning environment. The responsibilities of Kinderhagen are made clear in the framework plan, and the Ministry follows up the Stortingen request decision on its own legislation on a safe environment for care and learning. A group of particularly vulnerable children are those who are exposed to care failure, violence and sexual abuse. Kindergarten has a very important role to play here in detecting and preventing. A national strategy of competence in the field of violence is under way and the new digital tool SNAKKE is currently being piloted in kindergartens. The Government has strengthened supervision by mandated the State to independent supervision of single-child farms, and the State has used the opportunity to do so in several cases. The scheme has also led to cases being resolved through additional guidance and follow-up to the municipality. This contributes to better legal certainty for children and parents as well as to enhancing the competence of the municipality in question. The quality of the nursery system is established to provide good opportunities for kindergartens, owners and authorities to monitor quality development. In addition, the Education Directorate provides a range of resources and tools to assist quality development in the individual kindergartens, including: a so-called stand-by analysis. A national parent survey is also part of the quality system. It gives parents the opportunity to express their views on the different parts of the nursery service. It is a strength for both the sector and the debate on quality in kindergarten that there is a common parental survey, regardless of the ownership of kindergartens. The layer around the child needs to get better. Cooperation is not good enough today. We need to find ways to improve cooperation between different professional groups and bodies so that multidisciplinary efforts can be used in the best possible way for the best interests of the child. Kindergarten must be at the heart of this effort. At the end let me say that I fully agree with the representative Melby's emphasis on the need to have both a diversity in the offer and that we are continuously working on the knowledge base. It is absolutely essential that we both have research on what is a good kindergarten, what can promote both care and development in each child, that we ensure an ever-improved kindergarten teacher education, and that we bet on quality in each kindergarten. We now know how important a good kindergarten is for the child's development and further opportunities in school and education, and then it's important that we continuously work on quality, both in kindergartens and in the very knowledge base of how we can further develop kindergartens. Finally, let me also point out that the children decide neither kindergarten nor form of ownership. They are given the choice of their parents, and that we take responsibility for all children meeting a good day of kindergarten, no matter where they live and what kindergarten they go to. That's why I'm glad that this interpellation is going on, so that we have the opportunity – across the partition lines of the Stortinget – to discuss how we can build quality for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1803	I thank the Council of State, Mr Sanner, for a thorough and good answer. In its response, the Council of State refers to a number of measures that are already under way and that will come next year, as we see, for example. through the State budget. It's clear that there are a lot of important processes going on, and many investigations and messages coming, which will give us many opportunities to both discuss kindergarten quality and to bring forward completely concrete proposals that will help to enhance quality. I have full confidence that the Council of State will follow up this area well. But once I have the floor, I would like to take the opportunity to raise some issues that he was not in his post, which I think are important as part of the framework conditions for the kindergarten sector, and which the Council of State can either comment here and now, or at least include in its further work on the development of quality. Today, we have a financing scheme for private kindergartens which is widely agreed on at Stortinget, but which many actors have pointed out may have some unfortunate results. For example, there are large differences between municipalities and municipalities in the amount of money you are willing to spend on kindergartens. This means that we can risk getting a rather uneven offer. The question is also whether we have schemes that give a good deal of premium to those who really want to bet on quality. I wish that we could also have discussed whether today's financing system is well enough to facilitate the development of quality, or whether it could be considered that changes should be considered which would make us more conducive to what we want. Another issue on which the Council of State was concerned was that of competence. We are now demanding pedagogical density. There are quite a few of those who work in kindergartens, who are now involved in different courses of further education, which is very good and very important to increase the competence of the sector. One theme that I think we should also discuss is whether kindergarten teacher training is good enough, and whether it is relevant enough. We have e.g. in the school debate, efforts have been made to strengthen the leadership role. What can we do to strengthen the leadership role in kindergartens? And can we facilitate more career paths for kindergarten teachers, as we have also done for teachers and school? The requirements for physical activity were in my post. Can we be clearer about the expectations we have for kindergartens there? And finally, how can we ensure good quality without introducing systems that are far too bureaucratic, time-consuming and detailed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1818	The representative Melby pointed out at the end of his speech on some of the challenges we face, namely that we are all very concerned about promoting and developing the quality of the nursery, but then we have to reconcile it with the detailed regulation and bureaucracy that it can lead to if we go too far in the requirements we set. That is why I am concerned that we should have some standards at the bottom to ensure that we have a minimum crew, that there are enough adults present – through both crew standards and pedagogical standards – that we have the means to increase the quality of kindergartens through different skills measures, but also, as the representative pointed out, that we are systematically working with the knowledge base on what is a good kindergarten, what helps children to get good care, and what contributes to the development of each child. I think we have to admit that in that area we know too little today. It has been pointed out in the past for the smallest children in school – we also need to improve the knowledge base, and the government is now following up – but I think this also applies to kindergartens. I also agree with the representative that we must constantly look at how the education itself can improve, and what demands we make to the heads of kindergartens. There is a link between the knowledge base, the research we have, kindergarten teacher training and the quality development of the individual kindergarten. We have already established what we call university schools and university kindergartens, and my colleague Iselin Nybø will now also look at the field of practice, how we can strengthen it. I think we need to look at continuous quality raising, and then we need to contribute from the policy side to raising ambitions, but also to focus on research and education and to contribute to quality measures for each kindergarten, so that it leads to development for all children, regardless of whether they go into a public, non-profit or private nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1825	I would like to start by thanking the representative Melby for an important interpellation. I myself attended the kindergarten seminar organised by the Left, and was inspired by the voices of the sector. The votes were quite unambiguous that no studies show that quality depends on the form of ownership. The only thing we know for sure is that good quality in kindergartens, especially the relationship between children and adults, and between children, learning and development, and the play that children experience in everyday life, is what matters. It has previously been asked for a knowledge base in this interpellation debate, and I fully agree that we need more of that. Last week, the University of Stavanger concluded the ‘Stavanger Project – The Learning Child’, and I think it’s a little nice to draw some inspiration from that project, because it’s been doing a very good job over many years. With the foot very firmly anchored in the Norwegian nursery model, the project provides a good insight into the development of the children and shows them, among other things. that children with strong linguistic skills have better social skills and participate more actively in games than those with poor linguistic skills. In other words, it's not like having systematic language work is at the expense of the game, rather on the contrary, they depend on each other. I also think it was very interesting that the project showed that gender differences between boys and girls start very early. It was quite surprising that it seemed that the girls had better developed motor skills, and that it was related to how they otherwise evolved in kindergarten. This is the knowledge base that we need in order to develop new policies and to enhance quality. I am very pleased that the new framework plan, which came into force in the autumn of 2017, among other things. strengthened the leadership of language work. At the same time, as has been pointed out in this debate, the quality of the sector varies. There are also varying competences in kindergarten to meet the framework plan. That is why I am pleased that the implementation of the framework plan should be evaluated and that we can get good points of view in order to further develop the policy. As I said, it is the quality of the relationships in kindergarten that matter to the children. If we are to avoid that the development of children depends on a game of chance, then the key is competence and management in each nursery. One of the most important things we can then point to in the state budget, for example, is the 430 million. kr proposed to promote the empowerment of those working with the children. The reinforced educational norm is also a very good move to build a team of professionals around the youngest, and not least to create a culture for the continuous assessment of pedagogical practices. It's a complicated word, but what it really points to is that good kindergartens constantly evaluate their own practice, and they improve it in line with what the children need. At the same time, I believe it is important that municipalities take more responsibility as kindergarten owners than they do today. I suspect that there is a little difference between how municipalities follow up primary school, how they follow up results, both professional and social, and how they follow up each and every nursery. Being a kindergarten owner is not just about overseeing and granting funds, it is also about having a quality system, among other things. in order to provide the framework for those working in kindergartens that they have the opportunity to work together in a professional community. Then it is important that the kindergarten owners – the municipalities, very often, and the private – ensure that there is sufficient location-based management in each kindergarten and that the nursery boards take responsibility for the professional community. For example, more kindergartens may be available. carry out a stand-by analysis to see which areas of their pedagogical practices they need to strengthen. I think that's what's characteristic of good kindergartens, that they have an ever-critical look at their own practices, and that they observe each other and give feedback. I will end by stressing the importance of a good kindergarten teacher training with increased learning pressure, clear demands for students, but also a better practice than today. Among other things, there is a need for: a better interaction between kindergarten teacher training and the various practical areas. Action at university kindergartens is an example of this. I am very pleased that the Council of State Nybø will look further into the field of practice. If we strengthen kindergarten prophecy, we also strengthen the quality of the children's offerings, and we ensure that it is not so varied in quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1846	Thank you to the interpellant for taking up this debate. If I'm going to put it a little bit on the head, this interpellation debate is at least partly about the government asking the government if the government seems to have done a good enough job. But it's an important topic. I would like to remind you that the Stortinget also held a debate last week that referred to at least part of the same, and the Labour Party believes the same thing now as we meant then. For us, it's obvious that investing in kindergartens is one of the funniest and most important things that politicians can do. It pays off for the line of work, it pays off for equality, it gives our children a better starting point for the meeting with the rest of their lives. In kindergarten, our children should have a good place to be. They shall socialise, integrate, learn languages and skills through play. But we know that there are too many differences and for different offers between kindergartens. It shows, among other things: the report from Blick for children. There are often too large groups of children in kindergartens. This will include, inter alia: the consequence of staff becoming more involved in logistics and becoming less present and present to children. The Labour Party has been committed to resolving this through sufficient staff with the right skills, but we have also been concerned that all children should have the right to a permanent children's group to ensure that all children have the security they need in kindergarten. Some employees with the right skills are the most important factor for good quality in kindergarten, and the responsibility for improving both the skills, the number of employees and the way in which professional development can be ensured, I believe, is primarily the responsibility of the national authorities through the framework to be set up. The Labour Party has been working for many years to introduce a standard of staffing in the kindergarten that ensures that children meet enough safe adults every day, and a more ambitious standard of education. I think it's important that the interpellant mentions it by developing the role of kindergarten teacher. It is important both in terms of education, career paths and professional development in kindergartens and in municipalities. However, in this context I would also like to mention the skilled workers, raising their skills in order to increase the number of skilled workers – from unskilled to skilled workers – and raising their skills also for the skilled workers, who are doing an important job, and are an important contribution to the kindergarten today. To get enough qualified adults, we believe that we need a more ambitious educational norm, so that half of the employees in kindergartens are kindergarten teachers. The government norm is below 50 pst. pedagogues in kindergarten. I think it's good that the Right has stated that 50 pst. is a long-term objective. It's still too diffuse, and it doesn't use as long as the government they're part of, hasn't fixed it. The left has also spoken hotly here in Stortinget about several kindergarten teachers and several trade union workers. Unlike primary school teachers, there is no shortage of kindergarten teachers. I therefore believe that there is good reason to place greater emphasis on competences in kindergarten, with more qualified adults and a more ambitious educational standard. It's time to increase the ambition in that area. Finally, I just want to mention that when the interpellant draws up questions about ownership in its interpellation, it is for the Workers' Party so that good quality is the sovereign most important thing in kindergarten policy. This applies regardless of whether the nursery is owned by the municipality or by private individuals. I don't think most parents have a strong relationship with whether the kindergarten they have their children in is private or municipal, as long as it's good. But when you ask them if they want the money they themselves and the community spend on kindergartens to go to the best possible offer for the children, I think most people will answer a loud yes to it. I think the vast majority of kindergarten owners do too. That is why we have made several proposals in Stortinget to ensure that the money goes to the quality of the children. The reason we've done that is that we're seeing a development that's worrying, and it should call some alarm bells when babysitters almost offer large investors from abroad and inland prospectuses who say that Norwegian kindergartens can make good profits on invested capital. It is a development that threatens the quality of the kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1867	I am very pleased with the contributions of both the Right and the Labour Party in this debate. It was a very important perspective that was lifted by both the representative Tybring-Gjedde and the representative Henriksen. With regard to this with the standard of education, I believe that we should definitely discuss whether the norm we have today is right. What I think we fully agree on is that we need more pedagogues in kindergartens, we need more with relevant education, relevant competence. We see a very good build-up of competence in kindergartens today. The question is whether there is a further tightening in the norm that is the right way to go, or whether there are other things we need to do to ensure that we have good competence. I also think it is worth mentioning that there are many kindergarten owners who have a pedagogical density of over 50 pst. already, both municipal and private. Then I have to say that it strikes me that this debate is quite in stark contrast to the debate we had last week, when we debated a document 8 from SV and Red, on a 'various kindergarten sector', but that was really the most about ownership. It was perhaps a little bit of what was also my point of travelling this interpellation, just trying to lift up a debate that is about quality, and that is not about ownership. Then I think it is a pity to see that the parties that participated freshly last week do not want to participate in the debate today. The pursuit of the so-called welfare professionals by the left overshadows the debate on the quality of the offer. In the examination of that Document 8, SV could not support a comment that private kindergartens are an important part of the childcare provision in Norway and that they are an important part of providing a diverse kindergarten sector in the future. This makes me quite worried. Traditionally, the Workers' Party has been an ally – I believe – in being open to the need for different actors to have diversity and quality in this sector, but I have to say that I am a little worried, both after we see the Workers' Party doing locally, among others. Here in Oslo, and also that the Workers' Party has decided nationally that the fight against so-called welfare professionals will be the main issue in the local elections next year. There is reason to expect new rounds of ownership up to the local selection next autumn. Once again, I just want to say that I wish we could spend more time talking about quality. What are we that politicians can do to ensure that we get good quality? Unfortunately, I do not think the left-hand side has contributed to that today. I'm sorry, but I hope we get new chances later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1880	I would like to thank you again for a good and important interpellation. I don't know if the representative Martin Henriksen tried to be funny when he pointed out that here's the government asking the government. I hope so, because this is an interpellation debate it's important to have in Stortinget: how can we raise the quality of all kindergartens, regardless of both ownership and whether they are located in a large or small city, in a district or in a center? I'd also like to see what other games on the left-hand side had to do with this discussion. We're recording what really makes the blood shower. It's about ownership. But now that we're discussing quality for the children, there's some people glistening about their absence. We're going to keep working on raising the quality. It's about both knowledge and research, it's about teacher training, it's about cooperation between educational institutions and individual kindergartens, and it's about diversity. It is about the fact that different kindergartens can choose different profiles, which can contribute to both learning and innovation, and not least that as parents, we have the opportunity to choose an offer that is in line with our wishes and needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1889	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is going to be equal to-- so 8 is going to be equal to-- 8 is
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1905	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1917	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1926	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from President Abid Raja the proposals No 2-4, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-4, from Red. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Presidency to return to the Grand Duchy with a proposal to amend the Bill of the Riksrevision stating that the National Auditors and personal alternates for them are elected by the Grand Duchy for six years at a time.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Presidency to return to the Grand Duchy with a proposal to amend the Law on the Riksaudition stating that the head of the Riksaudition could not have held the position of Minister of Finance.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Presidency to return to the Grand Duchy with a proposal to amend the Act on the control of intelligence, surveillance and security services, paragraph 3, which ensures that former Ministers of Defence and Justice, in line with those who have previously functioned in the services, cannot be elected as selection members.’;» [[EOS Control Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e1962	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from President Abid Raja. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the election of the members of the Nobel Committee, the Presidency shall establish a separate committee which shall give its recommendation to the Presidency as to who should be elected as a member of the Nobel Committee after the party groups have had the opportunity to propose candidates. The Presidency shall then give its opinion on the matter to the plenary assembly.’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The President assumes that the Left also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2003	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Morten Wold on behalf of the members of the Presidency, Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen and Morten Wold. There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the members of the Presidency Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen and Morten Wold. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:108 LS [[2017-2018]] The right-wing party and the Progressive Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2063	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 2, by the members of the Presidency, Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen and Morten Wold. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to investigate and, at the hearing, to submit proposals for amendments to the Act concerning the registration of members of the Government's office and financial interests. This includes the obligation of information to state councils and state secretaries to record the contents of their former contracting entities and mandates where, during the last two years prior to accession, they have worked to promote political or commercial interests.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2078	As the President assumes, that voting is not in line with the will of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2083	Someone must have voted wrong, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2088	Then we'll have a new voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2100	We're too many who vote in the hall. We just have to be 102.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2105	That's right. We're too many in the room, so the intruders take a new count. A new count was made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2112	The size is then ready to continue voting in case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2125	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2134	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Martin Kolberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a complaint to be lodged for a claim for compensation for psychological damage caused by participation in international operations after 1 January 2010’, cf. Section 55 of the Defence Act. Those who have served after 1 January 2010 shall be granted the same right of appeal as those who served before 1 January 2010 cf. a regulation on the subject of complaints concerning claims for compensation and cheapness compensation for mental damage caused by participation in international operations and the complaints are dealt with in a specific manner designated by the Ministry of Defence. The Government is requested to propose to the Stortinget the necessary legislative and regulatory changes in order for such a complaint to enter into force as soon as possible.’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2160	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal replaces I in the setting recommendation, which then lapses. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for the necessary legislative and regulatory changes in order to introduce a right of appeal for compensation decisions also for mental damage caused by service in international operations after 1 January 2010.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2198	During the debate, Audun Lysbakken put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a Defence Commission to invite to wide public debate on changes in the security policy image, the role of Norway and changes in defence policy as a consequence.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2224	In Case No: 6–8 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2233	Case No. 9 is the second time the law has been dealt with and applies to law decisions 9. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-27.ana.ud234e2352	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
