ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e47	The request for sick leave from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete is made from the Central Party’s large-scale group from 26 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application will be dealt with immediately and be accepted. The Vara representative, Steinar Ness, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e78	Never have so many experienced as much progress as we have seen in recent decades. Every year, every week, every day and every second the world gets a little bit better than it was: The share of the poor goes down. Extreme poverty has halved since 2000. More kids go to school. Polio is soon eradicated, the HIV pandemic is reduced by one-third, more than ever experienced being five years old. And many countries have taken great steps over the last decades towards becoming free democracies that uphold human rights. But the road to a world free from poverty is not without challenges: The world's humanitarian crises are many, they are serious, and they are long lasting. Climate change destroys people's livelihoods and drives them on the run. We see examples of freedom of expression and freedom of the press under pressure. Women's sexual and reproductive health and rights are threatened by forces that will reverse what we've achieved in recent years. Changes in global and economic power conditions in the world create uncertainties and precursors to more protectionism, isolationism and nationalism — danger signals for economic development, security and stability. At the same time, we know that population growth in the world will be strongest in some of the world's poorest countries. Africa's population is likely to double to two billion people by 2050. Most will be under 30 years, and they will have one thing in common: they want a better life – freedom, security and the ability to support themselves and theirs. In the last half century, Western countries have tried to meet this demand through aid transfers. It hasn't given us the results we hoped for. The question is, How can we succeed better in the future? There's no reason to be naive. There are no simple solutions to complex development challenges. However, the 2030 agenda, with the 17 sustainability goals that the world gathered around in 2015, provides a better starting point than what we've had in the past. Through strategic partnerships, the world shall, inter alia, work to: eradicate poverty, malnutrition and hunger ensuring good health and education for all; reducing climate change and inequalities in the world. The sustainability objectives represent a new approach to development. They cover all countries and affect all parts of society. They are a breach of the traditional idea that development is primarily a question of assistance. To achieve the sustainability objectives, national efforts and resources are required. This is an important recognition: if the world is to succeed in achieving its goals, all countries must take ownership of their challenges and prioritise their resources properly. Aid alone cannot create growth and prosperity. Aid alone cannot prevent war, conflict and migration. However, assistance is one of several means of promoting long-term capacity building and national resource mobilisation. The 2030 agenda reduces the distinction between developing countries and developed countries. We are no longer talking about donors and recipients, but about mutual cooperation and real partnerships. It is a shared responsibility to address global challenges, and all countries in the world have a responsibility to contribute to sustainable development – including Norway: We know that war and conflict have consequences for us here at home. They lead to large refugee flows. We know that outsiders can create a breeding ground for radicalisation and extremism – and contribute to increased terrorist threats, including for us. We know that climate change and environmental challenges do not know national boundaries. We know that a weakened acceptance of the international legal order can affect Norway. And we know it's cheaper, easier and less destructive to prevent crises than to deal with them afterwards. Therefore, whether Norway is a driver of the world’s achievement of sustainability goals is not just a matter of solidarity. It's in our own interest. My first trip abroad as a development minister went to Senegal. There I had the pleasure of announcing Norway's contribution to the Global Partnership for Education, which is more than 2 billion. kr over the next three years. At the conference there, I experienced a recognition that it is not enough for donor countries to increase their contributions if we are to succeed in providing all good education. Developing countries also need to mobilise their national resources to achieve development — whether in education, health, climate or job creation. Ghana's president was one of several people who talked about this. He has a clear vision of a ‘Ghana beyond AIDS’. That is the goal of the government's development policy. We're going to work to make the world's developing world one day independent of assistance. This will take time, but the aim must be to ensure that all countries have a system of governance and their own sources of income that ensures sustainable funding of public welfare, infrastructure and security for their own citizens. Different sectors and instruments must play a role — both at home and in developing countries. The private sector, authorities, academia and civil society must interact to enable the countries with which we cooperate to plan for a future without assistance – a future in which their own tax revenues finance expenditure, and facilitate investment, trade, jobs, education and safe health services. In order for a country to be able to invest in, for example: education, health or safety, must be subject to tax revenue. Today, the tax intake in an average OECD country is above 35 pst. In 30 of the poorest countries in the world, the tax intake is below 15 p.m. Developing countries are missing valuable tax revenues that could have contributed to achieving the sustainability goals — tax receipts that could have been invested in schools, hospitals and measures to promote jobs. Aid alone could only form a small part of the solution. In African countries, tax revenue, even at today's low level, amounts to ten times as much as aid. If we are to succeed in national resource mobilisation, the fight against corruption and illegal capital flows must be high on the agenda. And the value creation has to increase. The 17 sustainability goals are important separately, but it's when we see them together that we can really make a difference. They are interdependent, and we need to have an effort in all areas: For example, we want to do this. Never be able to ensure all good health unless we reach the goal of clean water and clean air at the same time. It will be difficult to achieve economic growth in the world if we don't educate the workers of the future. And good education for all presupposes that governments in each country build strong institutions and fight corruption and illegal capitalshed. With the Prime Minister at the head of the sustainability pusher group, Norway has been given a global leadership role. It gives us a unique position to lead in the international efforts and contribute to the sustainability of the solutions to the world's challenges, both in an economic, environmental and social sense. So let there be no doubt: the sustainability goals are, and shall be, the leader of the government's development policy. The Jeleia platform states that we should maintain the assistance on about 1 pst. of GNI in the coming years. There's probably different opinions here in the hall about that percentage. But with a firm ambition, I have a hope that in the years to come, the debate on development policy will be less focused on crowns and more on priorities and content. In order to ensure that Norwegian aid crowns contribute effectively to achieving the sustainability objectives, we need a strategic approach with clear priorities. Spreading aid too much makes us less strategic and less focused. This is why the government has already taken important steps to concentrate assistance: thematic bets, fewer beneficiary countries, fewer partners, fewer actions and fewer agreements. At the same time, it is important to make use of the opportunities offered by digital tools to reach more effectively. I have therefore started working on a strategy for digitisation, the aim of which is to use technological tools to achieve better results in development. In recent years, we have chosen to focus development on five priorities: education health climate, environment and renewable energy job creation and industrial development; humanitarian aid; These priorities contribute to achieving many of the sustainability objectives and are therefore firmly established. Clear priorities mobilise efforts, appropriations and competences that can contribute to even better results. Education is a prerequisite for all other developments. It is the key to working life and to a life of independence with multiple choices. All children have the right to education. Nevertheless, more than 260 million children in the world are not going to school. Many of them are girls, many of them live in extreme poverty and many of them are fleeing from war and conflict. But it's not enough to give children the opportunity to go to school. When I was in Nepal last month, I met some brave girls. They told – in front of teachers, fellow students, parents and politicians – that although they had the opportunity to go to school, they did not feel safe enough to go to school every day. The reason for this is, among other things: that there are no safe sanitary conditions. We can only imagine what it's like to go to school for a teenage girl with people when there's no safe and clean toilets. As a result, too many girls stay home from school. When they get home, they don't get to take the exam. And when they don't get to take the exam, they don't get to finish school. It doesn’t keep up on education alone – students need to be safe enough to go to school. In the last growing-up period, the government doubled its contribution to education. The Norwegian contribution has produced results: From 2013 to 2016, 3.1 million children received annual support for schooling, many of them in vulnerable areas. 11 million students have learned material. 140,000 teachers have gained increased competence. We have helped build or upgrade more than 5,400 classrooms in vulnerable areas. And we've developed the mobile game EduApp4Syria, which helps Syrian children escape learning to read. But there's still too many kids who can't go to school, and even more who go to school without learning. The PISA shock here in Norway 18 years ago taught us that more money does not necessarily produce better results. Norwegian students did worse than expected, and many children lack basic skills — despite record school budgets. In order for students to acquire the skills they need, a robust school system, good teachers, forward-looking education and the ability to capture those outside. It's in the rest of the world as it is in Norway. There is a growing gap between the skills acquired at school and the demands of working life. Up to half of today's jobs are at risk of disappearing due to automation in the decades to come. Unfortunately, the school systems are not equipped for these changes. Later this year, the government will present a plan to step up the professional investment in developing countries. The aim is to contribute to meeting the need for skilled labour. We therefore need to work closely with business and ensure that training is relevant and meets their needs. Good education systems are an investment in the country's economic and social development and can improve the lives of millions of people. There is reason to rejoice that more and more developing countries are showing the willingness to make the necessary investments and carry out reforms in the education sector. And when a developing country shows the willingness to make an effort for better education, Norway shall be there as a safe and predictable partner. Our second main priority is good health. Universal health coverage is an important means of achieving sustainability goals and is a high priority of Norway and the World Health Organisation. Norway has a strong tradition of public health services for all and can thus play an important role in international efforts for universal health coverage. Norway has contributed to the decline in mortality among women, particularly in the context of births and unsafe abortions, by investing in sexual and reproductive health and rights over many years. However, access to sexual and reproductive health services remains a defect, especially in areas affected by crisis and conflict. That is why we need to increase assistance in this field by 700 million. kr for the period 2017-2020. In the current four-year period, Gavi's target is to vaccine 300 million children, which will prevent between 5 and 6 million deaths. Norway’s contribution is to vaccinate 30 million children and to prevent between 500,000 and 600 000 deaths. Following the ebola outbreak in West Africa, Norway took the initiative to set up a Centre for the Prevention of Different Disease Outbreaks, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness and Innovation. The goal is to develop vaccines against both known, unknown and anthropogenic viruses, so that we can stop outbreaks as early as possible. Better health for women, children and young people is important for achieving the UN sustainability target by 2030. For this reason, the Government will contribute to: increased access to medicines, prevention and healthcare more robust health systems and training of several health workers. But we can't see the health sector isolated from other sectors. Studies show that education, women’s participation in society, reduction of fertility, water and sanitary conditions also have a major impact on women’s and children’s health. Cross-sectoral cooperation is therefore essential in order to deliver on sustainability objectives. This is one of the 2030 agenda's core messages. The impacts of climate change and environmental problems are some of the main threats to sustainable development. At the same time, access to clean energy is a prerequisite for almost all sustainability objectives. With power in the house, children can also do homework after sundown, hospitals can accept patients and birthing women – even at night – and street lighting provides increased security. In particular, access to energy is a crucial prerequisite for the development of a modern economy with value creation, growth and jobs. That is why there is reason to rejoice with the Paris Agreement, which has given international commitments to developing countries for the first time. Our aid funding should be in line with the country's own adaptation and low-emission development plans. Climate and forest activities are the main efforts of the government to prevent deforestation and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Brazil has in 10 years reduced greenhouse gas emissions from tropical deforestation by more than 5 billion tonnes of CO 2 – more than 100 times Norway’s annual emissions. Half of Norfund’s portfolio shall be in renewable energy over time. Recently, the construction of Mocuba large-scale solar power park in Mozambique started, which is a collaboration between Scatec Solar, KLP and Norfund. The power plant shall be able to supply 77 GWh of electricity every year at the end of the installation. It will give power to about 175,000 families. For many years we have supported increased production of, and access to, renewable energy in developing countries, often in partnership with the private sector. For example, 53 million people, in 53 countries, were given. improved access to energy through the UNDP from 2014 to 2016. However, energy shall not only be produced, it shall also be supplied to users and it shall be managed in a sound manner. We have therefore shared much of our experience with the development of reforms, legislation, institutional development and capacity building, and in 2018 we have allocated 570 million. kr for renewable energy. Norway is an energy nation, and our knowledge should benefit more. The pressures on the marine environment and resources are increasing in several parts of the world. Most developing countries lack management systems for their marine resources. Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing leads to overfishing. Marine littering, plastic and microplastics are in the process of destroying the enormous potential that lies in the sea. At the end of March, I met a fisherman in Ghana who told me that he got significantly smaller fish than before. For him, it's not just an observation. It is a direct threat to his livelihood and the ability to support himself and the family. Norway is not only an energy nation but also a port. We have strong interests linked to the sea. We know what the sea means for workplaces, food, energy, minerals and transport – for housing, culture and identity. Norwegian business has the competence to provide the world with both healthy food, cleaner energy solutions and climate-efficient transport. Our competence is sought from many of our cooperating countries. We have a broad commitment to sea and marine resources in developing countries, through the so-called Fisk for the development programme. We've supported African countries to define their own continental shelf. And the research vessel "Dr. Peacekeeper Nansen’ helps countries to identify marine resources and thus make sustainable management possible. The ship has become a popular guest along the coastlines of Africa and Asia. The government will increase international understanding of the economic importance of the sea, the sustainable use of marine resources and how good environmental conditions lead to increased value creation. In January, the Prime Minister therefore launched an international high-level panel on sustainable marine economy. The panel shall be chaired by the Prime Minister and shall consist of Heads of Government of a number of coastal States from different corners of the world, including developing countries. They will work closely with the UN and play with other international maritime initiatives. We are also in the process of launching a new programme of assistance for marine pollution. To make the oceans cleaner, we can't just focus on the sea. Equally important is what happens — or does not happen — on land. 80-90 pst. the plastic in the sea comes from land. Lack of waste management may be the main cause of flooding of rivers and seas by plastic and other waste. If we continue to do so now, according to the World Economic Forum, there will be more plastic than fish in the sea by 2050, with potentially disastrous consequences for marine ecosystems and human food chains. One of the key tasks of our marine waste management assistance programme is therefore efficient waste management. We need to stimulate developments in our partner countries that are similar to those we have had in Norway, where waste is a resource in a circular cycle and increasingly an international commodity. We can only succeed if cooperation leads to the development of profitable value chains for waste by developing countries. Garbage is a resource that is being diverted. At the same time, it must be prevented by raising awareness and cleaning. To this end, we need both innovation capacity, technology and private sector capital, public sector transfer of competences, multilateral bank financing instruments and partnerships with both donor and developing countries. Clean and healthy seas are a prerequisite for human life. Therefore, Norway will take a global leadership role in the maritime effort and will use Norwegian experience and competence to promote sustainable use of the world’s oceans. A profitable and responsible private sector that contributes to jobs, income from employees and taxes to society is the key to sustainable societies – both at home and in developing countries. It is in developing countries that it is in Norway: we need to create new jobs to ensure development, growth and well-being. Therefore, industrial investment in poor countries should be the main force of government development policy. Business already contributes significant tax revenue to developing countries. Only Statoil alone pays more in taxes to Angola than Norway provides in aid to the whole of Africa. In this way, Statoil is not only involved in creating jobs through its investments — they also contribute to mobilising national resources that can go to schools and hospitals. Africa is a growing market with great potential. An increasing number of enterprises see the value of investing in developing countries because it is where the growth will come from. And let me make it clear: there doesn't have to be any contradiction between a company's commercial objectives and our development policy objectives. On the contrary, what for some is a big problem can be an exciting business opportunity for others: Sewerage is an option for the waste industry. Poor crops are an opportunity for fertiliser manufacturers. Small access to education is an opportunity for digital innovators – to mention something. Norway’s efforts to contribute to new jobs that produce development effects should be twofold: we must contribute to a safer and more attractive investment in developing countries, both for local and international actors, through cooperation with authorities on the design of laws, regulations and framework conditions that ensure the interests of both parties in a good way. And we need to use our development policy instruments so that the investment companies make can contribute to the greatest possible development effects. Unfortunately, we see that high risk, lack of loan opportunities and unstable framework conditions prevent many companies from investing. In the future, I will consider whether we can set up the business systems we manage, so that they contribute even more to achieving the goals we have set ourselves. One interesting model may, for example: be the risk-mitigation investment of the Climate and Forest Initiative in deforestation-free agriculture. The world will not be able to achieve the sustainability goals without the involvement of the private sector. To succeed in this, poor countries need market access. Therefore, the Jeløya platform states that the government should work towards a fair, global trade code under the WTO, building down customs barriers and offering equal opportunities for development. After all, there are not so many claims in the early 2000s that developing countries were poor because of globalisation. They're poor because they get to a little bit of share in it. Globalization cannot be stopped. People, businesses and countries will in the future interact more with each other. New industries need to grow new markets. As Tony Blair said at the Labour National Meeting in 2001, the question is not how we stop globalisation. The question is how do we use the community's power to combine it with justice. In Norway, we are doing quite well. We have high trust between people, low social inequality and a society that facilitates the realization of one's ambitions. The Norwegian model has made us the best out of globalisation, while managing the shadows better than most European countries. The alternative to participating in globalisation is protectionism – a way of thinking based on the conviction that we are doing better each other than together. History has taught us that this is wrong. Countries that have opened up international trade to others are getting more involved and doing it better than countries that are pursuing a protectionist policy. Take Kenya and South Korea as examples. In the 1960s, Kenya's total value creation was as large as South Korea's. Today, the economy of South Korea is at least 22 times larger than Kenya's. One of the reasons is that South Korea opened up early against the world and trade opportunities, while Kenya tried to hold back, shut out and protect itself from global development. The faithful companions of protectionism have often been increased poverty, lower growth and in the ultimate consequence war and conflict. We need cross-border trade to secure jobs and value creation. Many of the poorest countries already have duty-free access for all goods to both Norway and the EU. Nevertheless, imports into European markets are limited. The reason is that producers in many poor countries are struggling to meet the standards and quality requirements we set in Europe. Therefore, trade-oriented development cooperation is necessary in the form of simplification of border and customs procedures and measures for testing, quality assurance, increased standards and improved security of supply. The World Bank assumes that agricultural investment is one of the most effective measures against extreme poverty. Increased productivity and profitability in agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture can create jobs higher in the value chain through the production and processing of food, both for domestic consumption and for export markets. The government is working on establishing a nutrition programme and, in the revised national budget, the government will launch the food safety and climate-friendly agricultural programme — including fisheries and aquaculture. This will relate to health and climate investment, but not least to industrial development and jobs. The escalation plan will be part of the government's long-term action plan on sustainable food systems, which will be launched later this year. In order to contribute to jobs through multiple investments in developing countries, one of our main instruments is the Norfund Investment Fund. Norfund has over 20 billion. kr in work in developing countries, mainly in sub-Saharan Africa. By the end of 2016, Norfund’s portfolio companies had 270,000 people in jobs either directly or indirectly. And only in 2016 Norfund's investments contributed to nearly 11 billion. kr in tax revenue to Africa, Asia and Latin America. In addition, we know that most of the companies that Norfund has gone out of, still live and pay taxes. An example is Norfund’s investment in the microfinance institution Hattha Kaksekar Ltd. in Cambodia. Access to capital is a major challenge in developing countries. Through Norfund’s investment, the lending institution has been able to offer loans to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in Cambodia. In 2016 Norfund withdrew, but Norfund’s involvement has contributed to the Bank’s growth to reach its customers through a network of branches and ATMs in all its provinces. Customers who have been largely ignored by commercial banks are now being served. Norfund’s recently revised guidelines state that the Fund will invest to an even greater extent in sectors with high employment potential. The government will increase the capital transfer to Norfund by 50 pst in the current major period. from the 2017 level, and in this way we contribute with long-term and predictability to the ownership management of the company. The Government's aim is to contribute to decent jobs and fundamental rights for employees. But there is not only more investment that contributes to development. We also need to use the instrument to maximise the positive impact of investments on the population of developing countries. In 2016, we introduced strategic partnerships to achieve this. The U.D. and the NHO entered into an intention agreement to achieve better development effects and sustainable commercial activities in poor countries. These strategic partnerships also address our strengthened commitment to vocational and vocational training. We have already established some good strategic partnerships in which business, civil society and public cooperation on projects. Yara, for example, invests. now in a mining project in Ethiopia. They would probably have done that in any case, but what contributes to making this investment so important is that the Norwegian authorities, Yara and the Development Fund work together to establish a vocational school in connection with the project. Instead of Yara fleeing skilled labour, we qualify the local population for jobs in the mining project. As a result, hundreds of people get a job to go to, an income to live and skills that will be useful for the rest of their lives, whether they work in Yara or elsewhere. In the future, the government will further develop the concept in order to achieve even more in cooperation with industry. In recent years, we have seen greater humanitarian needs than ever. This year, the UN estimates that 136 million people need protection and humanitarian assistance in 26 countries. About 65 million people are fleeing. Two out of three are displaced in their own country. To meet the major humanitarian challenges, Norway has increased the humanitarian budget by more than 50 pst. since 2013. Many of the humanitarian crises are long lasting. The number of years spent by a displaced person in a refugee camp often exceeds the length of a development programme. This situation requires an overall approach to humanitarian action and long-term development, for example. rates of education for children in crisis situations — because it contributes to long-term post-crisis development. In August, the Foreign Minister and I will therefore present a new humanitarian strategy jointly. In addition to the five main initiatives in the government's development policy, we have selected four cross-cutting themes: human rights the rights and equality of women; climate and environment anticorruption These cross-cutting considerations are, as a general rule, to be applied in all actions and programmes, because unless these considerations are taken into account, we will undermine our own development efforts. It helps, for example: not that we get more business development and more jobs if businesses are at the same time corrupt, polluting the environment, violating fundamental human rights and attacking women's rights. All programmes and actions should therefore assess whether any of these considerations may be adversely affected. Cross-cutting considerations are communicated to all our partners – to authorities, civil society organisations and businesses. Much of Norwegian assistance is channelled through multilateral organisations such as the United Nations and the World Bank. It is particularly important to work for these organisations to have good guidelines and systems to ensure cross-cutting considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e396	When I met the World Bank President earlier in the spring, I was therefore quite clear on one thing: Norway expects such a major player as the World Bank to be more committed to equality and women's rights, without this depending on ear-marked support from Norway and other donor countries. We have a wide range of options in the management of the aid budget. Through many different channels, we are involved in several thousand agreements, actions and programmes. To succeed in development policy, we must choose the channels and programmes that are the most effective and effective for what we want to achieve. Strategic use of the channels is therefore important. In some cases, Norway has professional excellence in an area and long-term cooperation with a country. It may then be appropriate to focus on a country-to-country cooperation. This relates in particular to the transfer of competences through the Knowledge Bank. Civil society organisations are also important partners — whether they are present themselves or work through local partners. A diverse and dynamic civil society is involved in both complementing and correcting authorities and multilateral cooperation. In many countries, not only organisations are able to influence, but also large service providers where authorities do not have the power to deliver. The United Nations, the World Bank and regional development banks are present in contrast to all developing countries. In this way, many countries provide solutions adapted to national circumstances. Furthermore, development banks are at the forefront in terms of cooperation with, and mobilising, the private sector. Together with a number of other donors, Norway ensures that the United Nations system, the World Bank and regional development banks can put their weight behind our common global goals, in countries and in sectors Norway does not have the capacity to follow-up alone. The EU is also a major development policy player. Norway and the EU are present in many of the same countries, and we are working towards the same objectives. At a time of greater uncertainty associated with major aid actors, it is important to strengthen cooperation with peer-centred partners. I will therefore engage in dialogue with our European partners on future cooperation that can deliver better results. Global funds have become an increasingly important part of Norwegian development policy, especially in the area of health and education. In the future, the Funds will play an important role in the financing of climate action and the response to marine pollution. Our global common resources and common challenges do not take into account national borders. The UN is a unique venue for the development of binding international standards and regulations. Here all countries have a voice, and together we have often managed to find solutions to some of the greatest challenges we have faced. And we're going to do that in the future. When Kofi Annan had been Secretary General of the United Nations for five months, he was asked by Time Magazine why he had not managed to carry out a proper reform yet. After all, God had been able to create the world in seven days by comparison. Kofi Annan replied: God had the wonderful advantage of working alone. Because although the UN is a unique arena for cooperation, the UN is also an organisation based on consensus. Then the one that wants the least is the one that decides the most. The need for reform and efficiency is enormous. The legitimacy of the UN depends on successful reform, and the world depends on a UN of legitimacy. Therefore, the world community cannot afford to fail in the current reform process. The goal of Secretary-General Guterres is to get the many UN teams to work better together and deliver results in a more integrated and effective way. The government supports the Secretary-General's vision of reforming the United Nations Development System, and we will work to make local coordinators more independent and more authoritative at country level. Global cooperation and UN reform are important for Norway’s development efforts. The multilateral system, right above power, has served Norway well since it was established after World War II. But in a world that changes quickly, we see that the system is under pressure. Therefore, during the spring of 2019, the government will present a communication to the Stortinget on the role of Norway in the multilateral system. Here we will clarify Norway’s interests and areas of action in international cooperation. We will also look at how we can contribute to reforming and making multilateral organisations more effective. In terms of effort in individual countries, it is better to be able to contribute fully and completely than in part and part. The aim is to achieve better results by focusing on fewer countries and sectors, and to ensure that we make a difference in the countries with which we choose to cooperate. By giving priority to some countries rather than others, we can target those countries where we have the best prospects for success. In Report. St. 24 for 2016–2017 launched the government partner country concept. Partner countries shall be the priority countries with which we choose to cooperate. We're going to have a broad commitment and a long-term time perspective. I have started working on my own big message about partner countries. This message shall be a strategic tool for partner country action. It will preface what it means to be a partner country, what criteria underpin the choice of partner countries, and not least what partner countries we see working with in the coming years. I am concerned that cooperation with partner countries should be mutual, include a broad range of development policy instruments and have a long-term perspective. I am delighted to invite the Stortinget to a dialogue on the partner country concept later this year. Security policy, foreign policy and development policy are increasingly intertwined, and our development efforts in the world are, of course, not unaffected by what is happening around us. The world's climate, trade, investment, tax havens, safety, health and education are affected not only by our development policies but also by the government's work in other areas. That is why we need to pursue a coherent policy, so that the breadth of government's work contributes best to achieving sustainability objectives. It requires that we work together, across disciplines. This is why the U.D. has a close dialogue with the other departments on the impact of our national policies in developing countries. In the context of the budget, the Government will follow up the Storting's request decision on consistency. The context and synergies are great. Therefore, it is important that Norway’s policy is closely linked – and positively that the Stortinget supports the objective of increased coherence. A large aid budget requires a knowledgeable and well-functioning aid management. I'm impressed by our competent and hard-working aid management, out and at home. But if we're going to achieve the sustainability targets by 2030, and if we're going to maintain the willingness and the assistance at a high level, we have to make sure that we get the most out of the 35 billion we spend on development. We have to ask ourselves: can we – and should we – organise ourselves in other ways in order to achieve even better results in the future? The Minister of Foreign Affairs and I have received a clear mandate from the government. The Jeleia Platform states that we should look at the organisation of the assistance management. I'm already well-informed about what works, and what works less well. Gradually, I'll be able to say more about what I think about organisation and responsibilities. But the most important thing for me in this process is to look at how together we – the U.D., Norad and other actors – can contribute to the best possible development in the world. Although we conduct a coherent policy, we organise well and focus our development on selected themes, channels and areas, not all actions and programmes will deliver good results. Sometimes a project has to achieve several objectives. Often, a project has both negative and positive aspects, and the development stage, resources and governance of the beneficiary country are, after all, the main factors affecting the impact of assistance. We often take high risks in unstable countries with limited ability to accept help. If we were to end it, we wouldn't have been able to help those people who need our help the most. The consequence of taking risks is that some measures fail. It's all right that not all projects give the results we hoped for. But we have to learn from the mistakes we make, take the experience further, and finish the actions that don't work over time. It's when we dare to downgrade what's not working, that we get increased scope for action to bet on actions that work better. Norad’s evaluation department did not provide a long-term evaluation of the management of targets and results in Norwegian aid management. I'll be so honest to say that we didn't get very well out of it. I am absolutely sure that anyone working on development – whether in the U.D., Norad or in civil society – wants to achieve good results. And there are many examples of using experience from previous approaches to learning. But that doesn't mean we can't, and we're going to, get better. We have had target and result management in development policy for many years already. However, if we are really to see the impact, the evaluations must interact with our overall policy objectives and strategies. They must be relevant to the choice of programmes, channels and thematic bets. And the evaluations of these measures must once again have a bearing on what we choose to do in the future. Let me say it a little bit simple: when something doesn't work, we have to stop it. When something seems good, we have to do more of that. We're not going to waste good money after bad. To do this, transparency about the results is the first step. Did the measure go as planned? What was successful? Why didn't we achieve the results we hoped for? The availability of the results is a step two. We need more debate on the content of development policy. There is a great deal of information on how much money Norway spends there. What glimmers with its absence, on the other hand, are the results of this work. If we are to create a debate on how Norway uses NOK 35 billion, the results must be both open and accessible. To achieve this, I have started to establish an electronic performance portal. Digitalisation makes it possible to streamline the acquisition of performance information in a completely different way from manual systems. That's an opportunity we have to take advantage of. The performance portal shall provide all those who so wish with insight into projects and the level of achievement of the objectives. I believe that such a portal will be an innovation that over time can have a major impact on both the debate and the overall strategic approach to the development field. Steps are to have a systematic approach to taking in knowledge from previous projects when new projects and initiatives are launched. The evaluations will be used actively, so that we can get even more out of each aid budget in the future. Result measurement on the impact of assistance is a demanding task, and of course no miracle cure. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't. I started this presentation by saying that the world has become a better place, even though we are facing major challenges that we are going to help solve. Progress should be a major motivation for all of us to continue working to create good education systems, safe health services, more jobs, more renewable energy, relieve distress and stand up for democracy and human rights – with the 2030 agenda and sustainability targets as a guide. We'll do that because it's the only right thing to do – in solidarity with our fellow humans and because it's in our own interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e468	The President will propose that the Minister of Development's statement on development policy be dealt with at a later meeting in Stortinget. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e486	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time are given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e495	First, I must be allowed to thank the Cooperation Committee on this matter and not least for the patience as there was a need for more time to reach agreement. It might say something about all of us having a relationship with Christmas service, even though we have different starting points. When I was little, I learned my first psalm: "Make the door high, make the gate wide!" These words have, over the years, become a reminder to me that what was previously conformable and strict, today has become brighter and inclusive. At the same time, when I was a 14-year-old, I was allowed to visit the Ahmadiyya mosque on Frogner. It wasn't a matter of course for someone with a sun background to be allowed to do it. I was allowed to have Jewish friends, which was not obvious either. My father was determined that we had to learn about the faith of others in order to understand other people, and in view of this, it was not unnatural to participate in church worship. The visits to the foreign mosque, to the church, and to Jewish friends were voluntary and wanted. They gave me important knowledge and understanding of inequality, but also important knowledge of what we have in common. The recognition that we in Norway have different beliefs and different views of life must be based on the treatment of such matters as this. Furthermore, we must respect the fact that too many are strictly personal questions that need to be handled with caution. What is unproblematic for some is very demanding for others, and we must have respect not only for different religions, but also respect for the desire for freedom from religion. Today, the school has the opportunity to offer students visits to the church and the opportunity to participate in church service at school, in connection with Christmas, Easter and otherwise this year. Participation in religious service is part of the school's general cultural and tradition media, but the students also gain through the KRLE subject knowledge of how Christianity has been practiced in Norway until now, and the significance of Christianity for society and culture. The proposers want more students to have the opportunity to participate in Christmas service under the direction of the church to understand the content of Christmas and why it is so important in our culture. As pointed out by the former Council of State in his letter to the Committee, the Norwegian School shall be free of public service, in line with our human rights obligations, and a requirement for schools to provide students with religious services when invited by the local congregation may be challenging in terms of this principle. The majority, of whom the Left is part, acknowledges the desire for students to have the opportunity to participate in the Jubilee Service, but believes that this is best resolved through a national guide. That a local community may require a school to attend, will be to go too far. The school must decide on participation. It will be up to the individual school to choose how to organise possible participation in worship. The school must also consider what is practicable to achieve. The majority indicate that the school should be both an educational arena and a learning arena, that it is important for students to understand that Norway has a Christian and humanistic cultural heritage, that the Christmas season with school gods services has a long tradition in Norway, and that they contribute to providing concrete experiences on how the holidays are marked in Norway. The majority therefore believe that it is positive if as much as possible is offered to participate in school god services, and that the schools facilitate this as far as practicable. For some, such participation will provide new insights into and understanding of Norwegian society and its cultural roots. You must not be a Christian to celebrate Christmas, but an insight into the Christian Christmas tradition can equally be fully valuable. Students also learn about other religions and life views at school, about important festivals in different religions, and about different ceremonies. There is also an opportunity to visit different religious and life views. Such visits may contribute to a greater understanding and understanding of different aspects of life. [[President clubs]] However, this proposal is about jubilee services, which have a long tradition in Norway, and the Christian cultural heritage is embedded in our history – literature, art and philosophy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e516	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur and not least the committee for having had time to find a good and balanced solution in the work on this matter, which is presented in today's position. For the right, it is important that the school should be both a learning and a learning arena. In this context, it is important for students to understand that Norway has a Christian and humanistic cultural heritage. It is natural that Christianity in this context has a special position and is part of the teaching, and it is therefore also the central part of this debate that we have here today. The cultural heritage is embedded in history, literature, art and our philosophy. I think it's worth reflecting on, because knowledge of Christianity is therefore also one of the great and important prerequisites we have for understanding society, our habits, our traditions and our institutions. Teaching in our cultural heritage thus stimulates a kind of versatile formation, giving room for the necessary wonder and reflection on important religious, ethical, philosophical and cultural issues. Historically, therefore, Christianity is in a special class in Norway, and the Christmas season with school services has a long tradition in Norway. It thus helps to give concrete knowledge of the experiences surrounding the highlight of the festival in Norway. Our society has become more pluralistic, and knowledge of each other's cultures and not least religions is, therefore, absolutely necessary for us to have a good society with mutual respect, where there is no room for the emergence of extremism. This is why the school’s role in society is particularly important in this context and ensures that students get the best possible insight into just Norwegian culture and tradition. The right is therefore very satisfied with today's attitude, which I believe will help to clear up the confusion that has occasionally arisen around the country. Despite the fact that, fortunately, most people perform school services and contribute to good education and understanding, there have been simple stories with different reasons that have contributed to uncertainty just around legislation, social tasks for schools, and not least the expectations we have. Now I believe that we are getting an up-to-date guide that helps to clean this up. Our schools will now have a clear expectation of how best to make it possible for students to participate in school worship during the Christmas season as far as is practicable, and that the students who want exemption will have the right to a pedagogical alternative in the school system. This thus takes care of the school's social mandate. It contributes to the clarity of practice and ensures the necessary freedom of choice for each student. And not least: this freedom of choice should be met with a good educational option.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e531	My old elementary school, Nylund school in Stavanger, was recognized as they trod a little crooked in a matter like this, when in a discussion about Christmas songs they cut out words like "Christmas" and "Nisse" for a year and would not sing Delicious is the earth. The following year, they repeated some of the same thing when FAU sent out a letter to all the school's parents asking if they could cross which Christmas songs it was okay for the students to sing at school. The history of Nylund elementary school is not really about the reluctance to celebrate Christmas and mark the important modern tradition, but it shows the uncertainty that exists out there, which has already been mentioned, as to how to deal with a religious celebration in modern Norway. Therefore, it has been important for the Workers' Party in this case to stress that Christmas is important. It is important as a tradition, it is important as a Norwegian festival, and it is important in our common Christian heritage. Therefore, it should also have an important and central place in school. And as the representative Gudmundsen so nicely said, this is important because it's about understanding and respect. Therefore, it has also been too important for the Workers' Party, with the proposal we are promoting together with the Centre Party, to stress that the school's job is to facilitate that understanding. We are not fans of detailed governance and believe that it is the teachers' professional assessments of what lies in the curriculum objectives, which must be at the root of it. This is a matter which is also reflected in the discussion about the degree to which a person should direct his or her work at school, and the extent to which he or she should have confidence that the teachers will be able to make the professional assessments that are available to their job. I have recorded in the media that there is some disagreement about how to interpret that decision that the majority of the Stortinget today is going to take. I have recorded that there has been a long discussion with long negotiations between the parties, so I hope that both the parties and not least the Council of State in the Chamber today can clarify a little how this decision should be interpreted, because the history of Nylund primary school, which I started with, illustrates a little of the uncertainty that this might create. That is why I think it is particularly important that it is clear what the guidelines adopted today by the Storting should mean, how they should be understood in school, and what changes are being made to the proposal that the Stortinge now adopts, in relation to what it has been before, so that we avoid new Nylund cases. That's what's been important to the Workers' Party. With that, I take up the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e544	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e549	The Christmas holidays with school services have a long tradition in Norway, but we have noticed that the interest in arranging these has decreased over the years. The Progress Party decided at its national meeting one year ago that we want to have compulsory school divination, just right with exemption, both for those who themselves have a different religion and a different view of life, and for those who just don't want to participate. For that reason, of course, we have appreciated the initiative taken by the Christian People's Party in this matter. Jubilee service for school students is a well-established and good tradition that works well in most municipalities, but we know that almost one in five schools — that is, about one in five. 600 – has not chosen to provide school gods to their students. This may have a lot of reasons, but we hope that with today's decision we will see a marked change in this, and that we will now avoid all the annual, local contests about school worship before Christmas. Both the representative Gudmundsen and the representative Tvedt Solberg were within how important it is to have knowledge of each other's culture and religion, and that it is necessary to have a good society with mutual respect for each other. But we do not get away from the fact that the Christian cultural heritage is a significant part of our history, and Norwegian values and Norwegian culture are part of the core wall of the society we live in. To understand the Norwegian community, literature, language, expression, painting and most of our cultural heritage, knowledge and insight in Christianity are therefore important. For us, it is important that people living in our country learn about Christianity and its significance to Norwegian society, as it is today. Given that there are a lot of different religious backgrounds among primary school students, it is of great importance that students get knowledge of different religious communities, and not least that they are given the opportunity to participate in religious and cultural markers that are important to us in Norway. Jubilee service is an important factor in how we celebrate the Christmas feast itself, and participating in it provides a fine opportunity to gain greater insight into Christmas's Christian traditions. Now we're going to have a national school counselor on how best to make it possible for students to participate in school worship at the time, and for students who want exemptions to be entitled to a pedagogical alternative in school. I think it is positive and good that the majority in this Chamber have found a solution that will provide both those who will experience the service of Christmas and those who want an exemption. Today, we are making sure that far more children will have the opportunity to experience the fine tradition of Christmas service, and that is what we in the Progress Party believe is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e564	I agree with what a large number of speakers have said, that it is very positive that schools have the opportunity to organize Christmas service as a gathering before Christmas, and that it is a long tradition that it is important to keep going. I'm a little uncertain about the 12-, 13- and 14-year-olds sitting under the service of Christmas and reflecting so much on deeper values, philosophy and such, but I'm very happy that they learn Christmas songs. I am also very happy that they get insight into how a Christian celebrates Christmas, and that they also get insight into Christian ceremonies and the Christian Christmas message. That's good and important. That's why the Central Party very much agrees with the comments of the majority, which deal with this to a large extent. We believe that this is useful, sensible and positive, but one must, of course, also organize a necessary exemption for those who do not want to participate in that kind of service. I feel that we all agree. I also believe that it is important, in line with what we have seen in recent years in the equality of faith and life-view societies, that one also facilitates a visit to other religious and life-view societies – if not just before Christmas, then on other occasions during the school year. I think that is also important, necessary and sensible to do to the students. The centre party believes that it is difficult to have an order – I heard the case rapporteur also explained quite well – because it may be something that is getting in the way of schooling before Christmas. There may be challenges in organising an alternative arrangement for those who do not want to participate. There may be distances to the church that bring skyscrapers or other costs, or there may be other things that make one not get organized. That is why it is not the imposition of a directive that is being promoted by any party in the Grand Duchy today. On the other hand, the majority have put forward a proposal for a national school supervisor. I understand that the representative Roy Steffensen believes that this could mean a marked change in today's practice. I'm a little surprised about that, because there's a national counselor today for school gods. It was updated as late as November 13, 2015. So if today's decision is to update the national supervisor every three years, the department and the directorate would like to take that job, but one should not pretend that there is a big and marked change in what one intends to do, what are the grounds for exemption, and what is imposed on the individual schools. I think that would be a strong exaggeration. The Central Party believes that school worship is positive. We want to keep doing that, and we want it to be made right. We hope that there can be good cooperation between the schools and the local communities to arrange school divination. We think of it as reasonable. We do not want an order, and we simply do not see the reason why the majority is proposing a guide that already exists. If that guide is to contain something quite different, it is not apparent from the majority’s observations. I think that's also a little funny. I rather think one should save for that kind of paperwork and something that simply means adding a little more bureaucracy to something that one has already revised, just two and a half years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e585	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Cooperation Committee and the work carried out by the rapporteur. In recent years, there has been a debate every harvest on whether schools should cooperate with the Norwegian Church on school gods, and on the school at all should include Christian songs and traditions in the celebration of the holidays. Some Vice-Chancellors have stood up and been unsure of what they can or should do. For 2016, an overview from the Municipal Report showed that one in five schools, i.e. approximately 600 of the country's primary schools, did not offer school services. This, in the view of the Christian People's Party, is an unnecessary uncertainty and debate. Christmas celebration is part of Norwegian culture and tradition. Norwegian culture has deep roots in Christianity, and our society is strongly influenced by the values, thinking and traditions of Christianity. We see this clearly in our annual rhythm and the celebrations that we mark in our country. To understand our society, it is also essential to understand our Christian roots, which is also underlined in the general part of the curriculum, where it is called: ‘Christianity is a deep stream in our history that still characterizes mindsets, norms, language and art – and binds us together through weeks and celebrations.’ We cannot understand the contents of Christmas and why it is so important in Norwegian culture without knowing the Christian importance of Christmas. This gets students to know about it through school education, but also by participating in school god services. School services give a first-hand knowledge and an authentic experience of how the festival is marked by the Christian tradition. Just as we would like to take students to art exhibitions to experience art in a close and authentic way, so participation in a school service gives a different experience of what Christian Christmas is. That is why the Christian People's Party has been concerned that all children in primary school will be offered school services before Christmas as far as practicable. Possible obstacles may be different, e.g.: that the local community simply does not have the capacity to offer schools in the municipality that type of event. Therefore, we suggest that school worship be an offer to all Norwegian school students before Christmas, with the possibility of alternative arrangements for those who do not want to participate. The current system, where the principal or parental commission makes decisions on behalf of all students, can be seen as undemocratic and contribute to unnecessary conflicts and not least large differences in the supply of pupils from school to school. Then it is important to stress that it is of course the Church that arranges the school divination, not the school. But there have been very many successful cooperation projects between school and church, where school students contribute to the service in different ways. These are good cooperation traditions that should definitely continue. The Christian People's Party will also stress that today's right of exemption is to continue. It is an important principle and, in this context, it is important that good information is provided on the possibility of exemption in advance, in good time before the school service is to be provided, and that good alternative arrangements are made for students who do not wish to participate in the school service. In the reply given by the then Council of State to the Committee, I have noticed that he writes that the proposal promoted by the Christian People's Party can challenge our human rights obligations, as the school will be free to preach. But at the same time he puts himself in the letter in favour of school gods. I find the answer somewhat strange all the time it is also today that it is the Church that invites me to serve as a school god, but that the schools consider this differently, and that this creates differences in the way that some students receive offers while others do not. The proposal of the Christian People's Party only points to the fact that the offer of the Council of State as positive should be an offer that all students can receive. And still, of course, it's up to the individual student to choose whether to participate or not. The response of the Council of State must be perceived, it appears to be little in principle and helps to raise doubts about the arrangement we have today with that about. 80 pst. Norwegian students are allowed to participate in school divine service and are in breach of human rights. I hope and believe that the answer from the then Council of State was not meant to be this, but the wording opens up an interpretation that participation in school worship could be contrary to human rights. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we, together with the government parties, are asking the government to ensure that a national school supervisor is developed on how best to facilitate the participation of students in school worship during the Christmas season. Students seeking exemption shall be entitled to educational alternatives under the direction of the school. We therefore hope that we will clear the way out of some of the uncertainties that have arisen in front of Christmas, and send a clear signal that we want all students to receive the offer, as far as practicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e614	It is only positive that schools offer the students to visit the church and participate in worship. Many parents and students want this, especially in connection with Christmas. It is a pleasure, therefore, that very many schools have this offer. Christianity is so central to our history and thus our present. I therefore believe that we can all agree that it is both natural and good that Christianity and Christian festivals have a place in school and in school activities. I agree with the proposers that at school, religious services can be a fine way to learn about our Christian tradition and cultural heritage. Going to church and attending church service is also a great opportunity to see beautiful churches, experience music, sing together and learn what the Church stands for. There is no doubt that the school can offer the students to visit the church and go to church service at school. This applies both in connection with the Church's celebrations and otherwise in the year. The same applies to other visits to the sacred houses of other religions. Skilled teachers and school leaders can find points and goals of competence both in the general part of the curriculum and in the curricula of the individual subject to visit the church or other sacred houses. The freedom of pedagogical methods is central to Norwegian school, and I trust that teachers use their good professional judgement when they judge whether a visit to the church should be part of the teaching. At the same time, I think it is important to point out that students have the right to exemption from activities that are perceived as religious practice. We must respect and protect this right. It is an important part of the freedom of religion we hold high in Norway. The same applies to the principle that the school should be free to preach. We don't have an overview of how many students are offered religious services in school. We also do not fully understand the reason why some schools do not have such an offer. What we know is that some places can be purely practical, such as the distance and the need for transport that is the cause. At other times, it is the student base or capacity of the local community that makes it impracticable. Since there may be many good reasons why it is not appropriate to offer school divination, I think it makes sense that the school owners are not required to have such an offer. In my view, avoiding an injunction is also the right way to go in order not to challenge that the school should be free to preach and safeguard the freedom of religion of the individual. I believe that today's arrangement, where it's up to the schools themselves to evaluate when and how they'll organize for the students to visit the church and go to worship, is the best and right way to solve this. At the same time, I will not exclude that there are cases where the school and the school owners are in doubt about how best to use their room of action and in the most appropriate way arrange that the students get an offer to go to church. For this situation, I believe that the proposal of a national school supervisor on how we can facilitate the participation of students in school divination in connection with Christmas can be useful. As guidance material on religious services is already available at school, the type of guidance requested by the majority should be both rapid and relatively easy to get in place. In this way, we can get even a little more predictability around local processes in good time before the next season of Christmas services in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e630	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e635	As I said in my post, a look in the media can understand a certain disagreement between some of the settlement parties about how the decision that the Stortinge makes today is to be understood. As was said, there was a revision of the guidelines in 2015, and if I understood the statements of the Council of State correctly, he will now change those guidelines. I would like to ask how we are going to understand what the representative of the Progress Party said in his statement, that one is now expecting a marked change, and how the schools are to understand the discussion and this decision that is being made in the Storting, and what is changing significantly in relation to the guidelines that exist, and what may occur before the next season begins.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e640	The representative, Tvedt Solberg, based his question on a statement in our country on 13 April that there was a disagreement. This answered the four games. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have responded to this and are clear that they agree on how this should be understood. Of course, it would be totally unnatural for me to make my decision before the Stortinget shoots out what this supervisor should look like, but I think that Tvedt Solberg in his main post showed very clearly the uncertainty that is at many schools and at many school owners. Just to prevent that uncertainty, I believe that a supervisor would be appropriate. So the fact that we already have a guide material, that we can get this pretty quickly in place, and then we'll see what the change in everyday life is in School-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e647	I think it is important for this Chamber and for this debate to get exactly what has now been presented as the consensus, precisely, in order to avoid the uncertainty to which the Council of State also refers. I just want to ask, just to get a clarification in this room of what we are now going into, about what the Christian People's Party has been busy about, and which was also mentioned in the contribution of the representative Gruvean, that it is now the principals who decide to have a school god service, but that it is the churches that invite. I think it's an important clarification to get in place, because I guess it's still the way for the churches to invite. If I understand the decision correctly, is it still the case that it is the principal and the schools who are going to decide whether or not to accept the invitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e652	We're not going to make this more complicated than it is. I believe that in these kinds of questions it is important that schools have a good dialogue with their parents and students, and then you have to find good and appropriate solutions. The representative of Gruvan showed in his article on studies that have shown that many schools do not have this type of offer, and I believe that this also underlines the uncertainty that may be present. I showed in my speech that it is both in the master's part of the curriculum and in the individual curriculum that the school itself can see it as useful to visit the church, either in connection with Christmas or in connection with other types of teaching, and that of course it could also be natural to visit the sacred houses of other religions. But we have to come back to this once you have professionally looked at both what is laid down in this setting, and the obligations we have, how the supervisor should be concretely designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e657	Now it seems that there is a majority in favour of a national school supervisor on how to make the best possible arrangements for students to participate in a school goddess service in connection with Christmas, even though I would like to point out, like the representative Arnstad, that there is already one. But what I and my party are particularly concerned about in this context – and in fact have become more concerned during this debate – is that there must also be good solutions for those who, for various reasons, do not want to participate in these collections, even for those who initially do not have religious or life views, but only seem to be a sort of undue pressure from the schools to visit a religious, in this context Christian, ceremony. Can the Minister assure that there will be good solutions also for those teachers and students who feel that this will be a pressure to participate in school divine service?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e662	It is important to find good solutions both for those who want to participate and for those who do not want to or cannot participate. There are probably a lot of people who have experienced pressure from slightly different teams. Some people may have felt a pressure that they have to participate, while others have felt very strange that they have not received such an offer. I believe that with this supervisor we can get good advice to the school owners and teachers on how to facilitate such an offer in connection with Christmas and in other contexts. But I also fully agree with the representative that there must of course be alternative and good offers for teachers and students who do not participate in this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e667	Even I've been a principal at two different primary schools. There we solved this in two different ways. At one school it was quite natural to visit the local church, which was only two meters away from school, while from the other there was ten miles to the church. Thus, there was skyscraping, etc. Which meant that we didn't have school divination at that school, but of course we had Christmas games and other things that made it possible for the students to get the Christian message in connection with Christmas. Then we used the guide that already exists. What about today's supervisor who will be different after this decision, I want to ask the minister about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e672	I think the questioner's line very well emphasizes that wise teachers and wise school owners find good solutions. I also pointed out in my post that there may be reasons why you do not get this offer, precisely because of distances or other. But then we know at the same time, and we see that before Christmas, that there is uncertainty among the school owners and teachers about how this should be handled. Just that uncertainty may indicate that today’s guidance material is not good enough. And when a majority in the Great Britain, with the government parties and the Christian People's Party, has wanted such a guide to give better advice to the schools on how to deal with it, we're going to follow it up. I look forward to many children and students experiencing schooling in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e677	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e684	Norway is a Christian country. Our common Christian heritage has an important place in Norwegian society, also in school. The Constitution also states that Christianity and humanism form the basis of value on which the Norwegian state is based. Christmastime with school service has a long tradition in Norway. Christianity has a special position in Norway, and the Progress Party therefore believes that it must be a central part of the training provision in Norwegian schools. I am pleased that the Stortinge agrees with that, and that it is still to be arranged to offer school divination services in connection with the Christmas holidays. I note that this is an important clarification, because in East-Agder today there is an ongoing debate about school gods, and there the Workers' Party has claimed that there is a discussion about the religious services going out of school. I believe that there is an unfortunate debate if there is to be part of the change of words in the Norwegian community about the school divination going out of Norwegian school. The majority of the population here today now conclude that Christmas services in school are an important tradition that we have to take care of, and the Progress Party is pleased. We must not be so afraid to allow school gods for school students. After all, it is only a pleasant and solemn marking of Christmas that many in Norway appreciate. It is a tradition that we in the Progress Party believe must be upheld. Students who want exemption, of course, will still have occasion to do so, but I am convinced that many students appreciate to follow the Christian traditions of Christmas, and then it is essential that schools offer school divination.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e698	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e716	The border between Norway and Sweden is 1,630 km long, from the innermost part of Iddefjorden in Østfold to Treriksrøysa in Storfjord in Troms. This makes it the longest border between two countries in Europe. A number of municipalities and many of the inhabitants therefore relate to Sweden on a daily basis, in terms of work, trade, residence and recreation. Our two countries are strongly integrated into each other. The amount of commuting between Norway and Sweden is the highest in the Nordic region. There is more traffic between Halden and Stroemstad over Svinesund than there is between Copenhagen and Malmö over Øresund. For a wide range of residents and municipalities along the border, it is quite natural to do more tasks through cooperation, and it is important to exploit the opportunities that cooperation can offer. However, although such cooperation is natural, it is often so that the national border creates both practical and mental challenges that need to be addressed in order to trigger the potential of cooperation and contribute to increased development in border areas. Cross-border cooperation is a daily need and a daily phenomenon for border people, and often encounters little understanding among national authorities. For national authorities, this is a foreign policy. Does the President know how many foreign ministers to change a bulb? The answer is two. On the old Svinesund Bridge there is a lantern with a red and green light. Before a municipal cooperation was established here, the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs had to contact the Swedish to change the bulb in that lantern. Today, we have solved that problem, but there is still a lack of a basic day-to-day close understanding among national authorities, and there are some immediate consequences. The first is a lack of plans. When national plans and strategies are put in place, the area on the other side of the border is white. Either it has to be because we think it's time in the neighboring country, or it's because the area is unknown, or maybe we think it has nothing to do with us. However, the main problem in the absence of plans is infrastructure. In our own national transport plan, there are no structural solutions for dealing with cross-border infrastructure. Different solutions have been proposed, such as: a separate Nordic transport plan, or several joint projects with the Swedes. The OECD has recently carried out a country report, or a territorial review, for the region of Malmö-Oslo. They recommend the establishment of a joint transport commission between Norway and Sweden on a model from Denmark and Germany. Today this does not work at all. Sweden starts work on its national transport plan when we are done with ours. The sections Gothenburg-Oslo and Oslo-Stockholm have been part of the EU’s priority sections through the TEN-T system as long as this system has existed, without any consequences either for Norway or for Sweden. No matter how you solve this structural problem, it's a problem that needs to be solved. Creating operational cross-border infrastructure is crucial both for business and for passenger transport. This is a management responsibility that needs to be resolved at the highest level, with the Minister of Transport – and, more importantly, the Prime Minister – at the head. This has nothing to do with either local politicians, regional politicians or organisations, no matter how many conferences are held. We have to plan as if the border was not there – or as one said at the hearing yesterday about the need for a KVU for Oslo – Gothenburg, Oslo – Stockholm: If there had not been a national border between our countries, we would have had a double track in place long ago. A consequence of living along the border is that national authorities are constantly adding new practical obstacles to your everyday life and to business. The consequences for border relations are rarely included in the calculation when new laws and regulations are adopted. The Nordic Council of Ministers is working on the formal obstacles to the border that need to be addressed by amending the law or regulation, and they are given good help to identify the obstacles of the twelve border committees in which Norwegian municipalities are involved. But the informal barriers are at least equally problematic, and they need to be addressed through more information, training and outreach activities. However, the most important barrier is the mental one. Because there's a national border between, business doesn't think enough about how to increase opportunities by cross-border action. In addition, both language barriers and cultural barriers create difficulties. One of the main tools available to municipalities and regions to address common challenges is the EU Interreg programme. Because Norway is not part of the EU, we pay for the Norwegian part of Interreg ourselves, and it is not possible to get under the chair that this government is not such a big fan of Interreg. The Norwegian part of Interreg has been constantly cut to the extent that this is no longer an equivalent cooperation between two equivalent partners. It makes the program less and less interesting for potential partners, and I fear that this is just the beginning of the end of Interreg, and that the government will use the consequences of its cut strategy to remove the program completely in the next period. This is something I will strongly warn against. There have been a number of evaluations of Interreg which have shown that this is a very good tool both for regional development and for industrial development. It has integrated border cooperation into the system and created a structure for a common cross-border development. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister: what can the government do to reduce its challenges and trigger its potential through increased access to cross-border practical cooperation relations? And how can we jointly with the Swedish authorities establish structures to plan cross-border infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e746	The product representative Siv Henriette Jacobsen raises an important and topical question. Cooperation in the Nordic region is expanding and deepening and includes both the public and private sectors. This is in line with the Nordic Prime Minister's vision that the Nordic region should be the most integrated region in the world, and with the ambitions of the government as the basis for the recent globalization of Nordic cooperation. The government is concerned that Nordic cooperation should be practical, useful and make a difference between population and business. The resolution of border barriers and the strengthening of mobility are therefore an important and practical part of Nordic cooperation. The Nordic Cooperation Ministers established in 2014 the Intergovernmental Border Barriers Council to promote mobility in the Nordic region – for both individuals and businesses. On 30 May last, the Nordic Minister for Cooperation Frank Bakke-Jensen reported on the Nordic border-blocking work in Stortinget. Since its establishment, the Council has helped to clarify 36 obstacles. Of these, 27 are solved. You have been depreciated, among others. because of national policy considerations. The abolition of Norwegian customs and VAT rules for Nordic companies and the approval of certificates for snowmobiles in Norwegian-Swedish border tractors are examples of border barriers that have been resolved by Norwegian side. The Nordic Ministers for Cooperation adopted last year a new mandate for the Border Obstacles Council. At the same time, they decided to carry out an investigation into ways of further strengthening Nordic mobility. The conclusion of the report is expected to be presented to the Nordic Council of Ministers by the end of the year and will hopefully provide a good basis for further efforts to promote mobility in the region. There is also a lot of good cross-border work at municipal and regional level. Proximity and knowledge of local opportunities and challenges are a prerequisite for setting the right course. Through the Nordic Council of Ministers, the government supports the work of 13 border committees. These are membership organisations of local and regional actors working together to promote development, innovation and growth in their regions. One concrete example is the Interreg project Development of the Nordkalotten Grensendienst Business Advisory Service. It provides a network of counselling and counselling services to help companies obtain the necessary information on foreign trade and establishment in other countries. The aim is to increase the share of small and medium-sized enterprises active in cross-border business. As Vice-Representative Siv Henriette Jacobsen points out, as a result of the ever-closer integration, it is natural to assess how some sectoral tasks can be solved in cooperation with our Nordic neighbours. I am thinking in particular of the health, transportation and police and janitorial work. Let me give you a concrete example of what we can do through closer cooperation: suddenly it smacks. On a winter smooth road in Meråker, two buses collide. The site of the accident is only five kilometres from the Swedish border, and on both sides of the border the emergency situations are rapidly mobilized. A new and interconnected emergency network makes communication cross-border and seamless. This is the result of the Interreg project Cross-border Cooperation for Security. Here, the Emergency Cats in Trøndelag and Jämtland have cooperated on joint solutions. As a result, Norway and Sweden, like the first two countries in the world, have merged their emergency networks. In the past, the rescue settings have been dependent on the mobile phone to talk to each other. There is already close police cooperation between the Nordic countries. Part of this cooperation takes place in border areas and is based on the Nordic Police Cooperation Agreement and Schengen cooperation. The European Prüm Agreement also facilitates the strengthening of cross-border cooperation, in particular with regard to the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime. The Ministry of Justice of Sweden has taken the initiative to draw up a declaration to be adopted at the Nordic Minister of Justice meeting in June this year. The declaration could provide a framework for negotiations on bilateral agreements on further deepening police cooperation between the Nordic countries. The government believes that the ambitions for Nordic cooperation should be high. Our long and close cooperation traditions and broad community of interests facilitate the Nordic region's leadership in European regional cooperation. In the case of municipal tasks and services which are neither required by law nor involve the exercise of powers, municipalities are initially free to carry out and organise their activities as they deem most appropriate. In principle, where Norwegian municipalities are to cooperate on tasks involving the exercise of powers, they must use the local authority model of the Local Government Act. It opens up initially only for cooperation between Norwegian municipalities. But it is also possible to find good cross-border solutions in these areas. In the Liern municipality, widespread settlements and long distances are a challenge for the care services. On several occasions, the municipality has used vacant sick homes in the neighbouring municipality of Sweden — when the situation of the user and its relatives has made it possible. There has also been sporadic cooperation across the border on post-care and child protection. These are examples of inspiration that I believe can be further explored, in view of exploiting the common resources available to you in terms of staff and premises in border areas. The transport sector is not part of formalised Nordic government cooperation. However, it is important to discuss current transport policy issues and make use of the good network established between the Nordic countries. A rail link between Finland and North Norway can provide great opportunities for growth and development in the northern regions. The Government has therefore indicated that it wishes to initiate a Scandinavian/Nordic railway analysis. The planning and improvement of roads in border areas is another practical area where Norwegian and Swedish authorities will be able to cooperate at regional level. In September 2017, the Nordic Ministers for Transport signed a Joint Declaration on Cooperation and Organisation for Autonomous and Communicating Vehicles. Among other things, a separate declaration was signed with Finland on such testing on European road 8 between Tromsø and Turku. Complete removal of frontier barriers is hardly realistic in the foreseeable future, partly because the Nordic countries have over time developed different laws and regulations, partly because the development and application of technology, law and politics do not always happen in parallel in the Nordic countries. The government's ambitions are nevertheless high. An analysis of Nordic legislative cooperation has recently been carried out. The analysis examines the challenges and opportunities of Nordic legislative cooperation and contains a number of proposals that could increase Nordic integration and promote Nordic models internationally. The report points in particular to the opportunities for cooperation on EU legislative initiatives, which Norway also gave high priority under its Presidency of the Council of Ministers in 2017. Strengthening legislative cooperation is also proposed on, inter alia: digitisation and health. Closer cooperation on digitisation has been a key element of Nordic ministerial cooperation. Last year my Nordic and Baltic colleagues and I adopted a Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation. The ambitions are high: the Nordic-Baltic region will lead the digital sector – in Europe and globally. Digitalisation is important to promote our common competitiveness and mobility. Norway has been given a managerial responsibility to facilitate the use of personal ID and electronic identification throughout the Nordic region and the Baltic region to facilitate cross-border use of services. For example, it will. facilitate the possibility of obtaining prescriptions and health certificates, admission to schools and universities or the use of banking services. Let me again thank you for a good and timely interpellation. It illustrates the value of Nordic cooperation as a political idea workshop on a number of levels. Through the sharing of knowledge and practical work sharing, the Nordic countries and our local communities along the border can take advantage of their advantages and play good for each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e797	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I can assure him that I am going to study this really thoroughly in my payroll chamber and pass it on to my friends on both sides of the border. Government ambitions and visions were both good and important. Then it remains to be seen whether the government as a whole – and the Council of State – has the will to lift this up to the necessary level. I saw the whole of the Council of State as a defence for the INTERREG programme, but it is also a reality that it has been cut here. Norway has been an unreliable partner; several programmes have been cut in the middle of the programme period, so that the government has been continuously negative to Interreg and expressed scepticism as to whether this creates the necessary developments, such as: for business. But I think the Council of State now showed an understanding of what INTERREG is, what it can do, and of the need for practical cross-border cooperation – on many levels and in many areas. So this we're going to follow up. When it comes to the transport problem, we've been able to build bridges before. We've been able to build the railway before. We've managed to build roads together before. So this just has to be put into system. In particular, we need to have a system for a common CVT system between countries, so that this can be planned in cooperation in order to identify the need, to identify possible alternative funding methods and to identify where the routes are going. Here, I don't think it was entirely in terms of what was outlined, and I want a further follow-up to what the government has actually intended to do structurally to solve common transport challenges, not only in the Nordic countries, but especially in Norway and Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e806	I can trust the representative that I was pleased with this interpellation, because I have experienced both as a citizen, as a politician for many years, as a Council of State in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and now also as a Minister of Knowledge and Nordic Cooperation that Nordic cooperation is of great value. There's a lot of reasons for that. One thing is that in the Nordic region we have some common values. We have a social model that doesn't differ significantly. This enables us to learn from each other across borders — nationally and also locally and regionally. We're doing these problems a little bit differently, and so the transfer value is that big. We travel a lot of places in the world, but I've found that the greatest value is when we visit our Nordic neighbours. Then it is clear that we have also been at a time when both Sweden, Denmark and Finland have been more concerned about what is happening in the EU than perhaps in Nordic cooperation, but I now experience a common understanding in all Nordic countries that we are going to strengthen and revitalise Nordic cooperation. The test of success is whether the population sees it as relevant, whether the business community sees it as relevant, and whether the community along the border sees it as having added value. That's where I think we need to explore the space of action that is, to find solutions, and that's where I invite that if you find obstacles in laws, we need to get it up, so we can figure out if we can actually do something about it. I also showed concrete results of Interreg cooperation in my post and believe that it has a value. So it is that Interreg cooperation is not only dependent on state transfers, but here, too, the states and regions have a great deal of room for action to use their own budgets to find the good cooperation. Also on the transport side I believe that we can achieve more. We know that a lot of our business life is going to travel on roads to the large European market, and then it is clear that there are opportunities across the border between Norway and Sweden — and further down — also of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e815	I'm also happy with this interpellation. I would like to thank the inter-pellant, and I would also like to thank the Council of State for the answer. This is a theme I think we have too little attention on. For one who has grown up on the Swedish border, using both countries is completely natural. But there have been many practical obstacles, both for workers and for business. Governments have pointed to many other important border areas for which it is important to cooperate. I would like to point out, among other things: The border service, which is a cooperation between Norway and Sweden located in Morocco, which is about assisting in the removal of frontier barriers to workers and business. It has been very important, because in these areas there is a lot of cross-border commuting, both by workers and also by different business ideas that find their solution – sometimes on the one hand and sometimes on the other. Finding solutions to this issue is important, also for some workers who have been in very difficult situations in the area of retirement, who have been working gradually to find good solutions. Some of the last councillors said, are of the things I and SV have worked especially with. This applies to transportation. The council said to drive the goods by road. SV says no, we're going to run it on the railway. It's one of the big national projects that we have to get going, which will mean a lot to get goods on the rail, and that's about goods going out of Norway, a lot going all the way from the Nordland and the Trøndelags, through Hedmark and Uppland, and to Sweden and the continent. If you electrify the Røros Railway, you will have double tracks from Trondheim – you don't even have to enter Oslo, because there's a lot to do with the transport – and you can drive the Røros Railway and the Solør Railway and right to Sweden and avoid getting the freight traffic on the road. You get a very efficient transport for those who want to have their goods both in and out. This is an incredibly important project for the climate, it is an important project for business, and it will be a very good initiative if we are to cooperate with Sweden. I have also worked to get a modernised track between Oslo and Stockholm. I have been sitting on Stortinget for so long that I experienced that a former bourgeois government shut down the railway between Oslo and Stockholm. Thank God you've come up with new ideas. The Swedes have partly given us up, because nothing is happening on the Norwegian side. Here we could benefit from cooperation with a country that is at the forefront in terms of railway operations. Projects to both get rail between Oslo and Stockholm and to get electricity on the Rørosbanen would be excellent development projects in cooperation with the Swedishs. Finally, one of the themes addressed by the interpellant, namely the Interreg programmes. I've been a part of it, too, as a state politician. Not all of it was just as good, but it has gradually become much better. Projects have been long-term. Some of them have been about climate and the environment. Some of them have been about e.g. to obtain biogas. Some have been dealing with cooperation between Øresund and Kattegat-Skagerrak on clean coastline. It was supposed to be very topical now, but unfortunately this government cut off the money for these projects. One thing is that you don't get money for this, another thing is that you make yourself an unstable partner. Here we have a lot to learn. We have a lot to contribute, but we have a lot to learn from our neighboring countries, and there are many of these issues that we need to solve in the context. Increasing the effort in Interreg will be wise, but of course it's also wise to make sure that the projects you're involved in are good, and that they give effect. It's important. Then you might also have to look at the regulatory framework around this, so that you do not put any restrictions on the things you can work together on and that will have the greatest effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e828	I feel that the Council of State has a real and warm commitment to the Nordic. It's also one of my absolute greatest capists. I can also say that when we were going to have this interpellation, we spent a long time finding out who was the Nordic Co-ordination Minister. It was thought for a while that it was the Minister of State. So here, the Council of State can do a little job to make its responsibilities visible in the Nordic daily. When the Council of State says that the states can spend their own money on Interreg, I have to remind the Council of State how the INTERREG system is built up. There is one-quarter of own resources, one-quarter of Interreg funds – on both Norwegian and Swedish sides. The government has also cut regional development funds for the counties, so that no funds are available for the proportion that needs to be put in place. This has created a double problem, both by cutting in Interreg and by cutting regional development funds. As far as border committees are concerned, I would like them to be given a greater mandate to be rapporteurs on border barriers. They are present along the entire border, both against Sweden and, of course, towards Finland and Russia, and feel this on the body. If they could be commissioned to be rapporteurs to the Nordic Council of Ministers on Border Barriers, they could also benefit from their experience there. I think the Council of State drew up a dimension that I myself did not quite come forward, namely the district dimension. Many of the municipalities bordering Sweden and Finland are district municipalities that have a lot to gain from working together across the border to meet their challenges. It's important to get out and use. We are left with the really unresolved problem, which is not only the elephant in space, but which has been pulled forward here, and which has not yet been answered: what are we doing with the structural challenge of dealing with transport plans? This has to be solved, and it has to be put into system. The Nordic Council has recently highlighted this and wants ministers to be more involved. That's a good idea. But we need to have commitment cooperation, not just as an adhoc organisation, but ongoing cooperation to solve Nordic transport challenges together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e841	I notice that there is a need for a clearer identification of who is the Nordic Minister of Cooperation. I hope to have something done in the years that are coming. It's an important problem. My experience is that very much of the cooperation goes between those who are responsible. Yesterday, I had the pleasure of attending a meeting of the Nordic Council of Ministers for Knowledge, Higher Education and Research, a meeting that I experienced as very constructive because they kept discussing the challenges in Sweden, Norway, Iceland – and then you can learn from each other. The role of the Nordic Minister for Cooperation also means trying to get the whole picture — and to participate in debates like this. I would like to thank the two who took part in the debate for a good commitment and good concrete input that we will continue to work with. I hope that more people will participate in the discussion when we discuss the big message we have recently submitted on Nordic cooperation. I also showed some cooperation in the field of transport in my article. I showed that our government has signaled that they want to take the initiative for Scandinavian/Nordic railway analysis. This could provide a good basis for further cooperation on concrete solutions. I also indicated that the Nordic Ministers for Transport have a Joint Declaration of September 2017 on cooperation and organisation for autonomous and communicating vehicles. This means that even if you do not have a separate Ministerial Council for Transport Ministers, it cooperates across borders. I believe that is also in our interest. I also agree with what Karin Andersen said about the importance of the effect of Interreg cooperation. You must not just measure it in how much money is allocated, but what results you get. I referred to some examples in my post, and that's something we want to build on and realize more such projects. The example I drew from the Lierne is not an Interreg project, but concerns two municipalities located on both sides of the border. We can give our citizens better services by cooperating more. I want more such initiatives to come from below, and that we, as national politicians, see how we can find good solutions that serve communities on both sides of the border. Finally, let me just point out that in the climate field, a recent report from former Minister for Climate and Environment, Tine Sundtoft, who has experience in both local, regional and national cooperation, and who has now gained experience from all Nordic countries to see how together we can achieve better results through closer cooperation in the field of climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e854	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e870	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e886	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e895	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a very good and constructive cooperation in this matter. It has been particularly important in view of the history that has led to the decision we are making today, and the further consideration of the construction project, which will continue in the Stortinge beyond spring. The Committee refers to the presentation by President Olemic Thommessen to the Stortinget on 6 March of this year. In that statement, Olemic Thommessen Stortinget briefed that the budget framework adopted for the ‘Prince’s Gate 26’ construction project, new postal and freight reception facilities and entry tunnel’ would reflect a new cost framework, estimated at 2 320 million. kr. So this was a new budget after the Stortinget in spring and summer 2017 discussed the Riksrevision's review of the case, as the project had already had an increase in the cost framework. The Committee also draws attention to the review of the project by the National Audit Board in June. The Committee has considered the progress of this case until last June, which has already been dealt with in the Stortingen, and has therefore dealt with the course of events since that examination last summer. However, let me say that the total cost overrun of the project is very serious. The Committee also points this out unanimously in its comments. The Committee has been committed to providing as good a supplementary information base as possible, and we are therefore pleased that the Presidency has committed Dovre Group Consulting to passing the figures in the project. This review has come to the same cost estimate as the project group briefed on in March, including uncertainty analysis, of 2 320 million. kr. The Committee, in dialogue with the Presidency, has complied with their wish for an extended mandate to commit the project of 90 million. kr to keep up the momentum in June of this year. In this way, we will also have time to deal with the full cost of the revised national budget. The Committee also considers that it is more expedient to take this type of expenditure in the normal budgetary procedure instead of in its own cases. The reason why we're doing this in two steps is that the committee first got the figures from the administration and the administration notes on 16 and 18 April, respectively. So there was a very close timetable to carry out a thorough examination of the whole case. The Committee then points out that some of the costs necessary to complete the project do not appear to be involved. This applies, inter alia, to: loose furnishings such as furniture, safety installations, removal costs, modifications of the building mass such as fire windows and sprinklers, as well as the construction of Wessels' space. While the Committee assumes that these costs are planned to be financed under the 2019 budget, we believe that it would be appropriate to obtain an estimate from the administration already now of what these costs will be. So it is that the Storting has a responsibility, we believe, to also take some of the cost gap within its own budgets. It's also signaled the presidency that they want to do. It will be important both to show the citizens of this country, the taxpayers, that we can also set the pace by industry here on the Stortinget, and because, after all, the reporting of costs has to be as small as possible. The party Red has its own proposal on the matter, in which they propose that the Presidency and the administration should come back before the summer of this year with an obligating plan to reduce their own expenditure. The reason why the Committee has not voted in favour of this proposal is not that we do not support the intention that the administration and the presidency should also have to find funding in their own budgets, but simply that the timeframe may be too tight if they are asked to do so before the summer, not least because the Storting should have a new Director, who will join on 2 May. To this end, the Committee unanimously proposes to extend the mandate of the construction project by 90 million. kr, and that the remaining amount is treated in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e922	I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee and the committee for their good cooperation in this serious matter. This is formally a consideration of the presentation by former Landfill President Olemic Thommessen on the construction projects of Stortinget on 6 March 2018. In reality, there is a consideration of another chapter in a very serious, regrettable, unhappy and sometimes dramatic matter – a matter that we should deal with with with with all manner of humility, a matter that has weakened the confidence of the Stortinget, to a collapse that has a particular responsibility to manage the community's money in a good and sound manner. That is why it is a particular responsibility of the Presidency to complete the building projects of the Storting properly. I am also confident that today's presidency will do its utmost to restore confidence in the Stortinget. Throughout this unfortunate construction, the working party has been clear that the exceedances, lack of transparency and mismanagement in several areas have been under all criticisms. I would like to stress that we are not yet done with the matter. All aspects of this matter which are mentioned in the statement we have formally addressed, and of course also the new documents available, Dovre Group Consulting's quality assurance and uncertainty estimates and the administrative note on the construction project, should be dealt with – and in full transparency. But we're not doing it now. The reason is, as the chairman of the committee said, that we have simply had too little time. The documents came a few days before delivery, and it does not give rise to as thorough a treatment as the case would require of us, if we were to do so today. At the same time, the Storting must take the decisions to which an overall committee has joined, an increase of 90 million. kr, so that the project does not stop. It can't wait – because The payment cannot be known not to be a serious payer who does not pay their bills. Stopping the project will impose additional costs and deferrals on the Storing. On the other hand, I would like to assure you that an overall review of the project’s economy will be part of the budgetary process of the revised national budget for 2018. It is revealed in the Dovre Group Consulting report that their assignment is limited to the Stortingen construction project, i.e. the Prince's Gate 26, the mail and goods reception and the coal gate and the entrance tunnel. This means that several things necessary for the realisation of the project are not included. All that's going to be inside these buildings, e.g. furniture and restraint systems are not included. In addition – and I’m even more concerned – the development of Wessel’s site, which I imagine is both extensive and expensive, is not included. It will therefore be reassuring for all of us to get an estimate of these costs, and we ask the Presidency to provide an overview of the planned actions related to the project that are planned to be carried out alongside this. It is very serious that the costs of the construction project exceed the powers granted by Stortinget. In this round, we're dealing with an extension of the 90-million mandate. kr, so that the project will not stop without entering the whole. However, the Labour Party can ensure that the project will be subject to a thorough and comprehensive review of the national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e952	I would also like to start by thanking the Chairman of the Committee and the Advocate-General and the whole Committee for their good cooperation in this matter. Unfortunately, the building scandals of the Storting, which have been mentioned both from this pulpit and from the population, have been incorporated into the ranks of public building projects with very large budget lines. Of course, it is easy to be a follow-up clock and think that a lot should have been done differently. I am in any case happy that today we can go further with the construction project. It is important to clarify that today's Committee is that we cover the additional costs by 90 million. kr, so that we do not get delays and stops in the construction project, which would see the reputation of Stortinget more at stake, if one came into a situation where one could not pay bills and had to stop the work. The thorough review, as many have mentioned before, is to become part of the revised national budget, and it is then natural to come back to the health and to mention it more broadly in the context of the procedure. Nevertheless, it is good to say some words in this matter as well. This is a question that, of course, inspires confidence in both the Storting and politicians on the part of taxpayers and voters. This trust is required for us to travel back. In fact, I believe that the inhabitants of Norway understand that the construction project that Stortinget started has been huge because of the fact that a requirement is for security, and that it is a complex façade. What people don't understand is a constant cost saying and an impression that politicians don't have control in their own houses. It's very regrettable. For this reason, it is positive that the Presidency sends out a signal that the Storting should also take part in spending cuts in the own budget. It is a great responsibility for the presidency to make good proposals in consultation with the administration on how to propose such cuts. For us, it's important that it happens. Red has a proposal, for which the committee leader did well, for which I believe all are some of the intentions. The reason for not voting is that a time limit is too short, but there is no doubt that one agrees with the intention that the Storting should, of course, take part in the responsibility of reducing it as one can reduce it in this house. The cost statement we've now seen, we can't do anything about it right now. At the same time, we need to learn from it for future projects. We all know that the space for action in the years to come is going to be smaller, and Norway is forced to operate more effectively than we have now. We're going to have to do real priorities, and we're going to have to do tough cuts in time. Then it goes bad with billions of phrases in our own backyard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e965	I also want to start by thanking the committee chairman and the committee for a good cooperation in the matter. At the same time, I would like to say that the Committee has not been given the best conditions for good practice in this matter, with documents that have been sent late, documents that have been important for our consideration. It is a very unusual and serious matter we are facing today. I also have to say that it is a fact that we are here to give an additional mandate of 90 million. kr, which almost disappears in the great glare through the great exceedance, which has been the subject of major debates in this Chamber, and major media publicity. The construction has already had major consequences. It has had consequences for people who work here in the house, and it has also had major political consequences. What we are about to deal with today also has great consequences, but it will also have consequences far beyond this house. The 90 million. kr, which is now to be deducted from taxpayers' money for a building project that has been completely phased out and which has exploded further beyond its borders, has consequences for people throughout Norway. The centre party fully agrees that you also need a review of the use of money on Stortinget, and look at where you can save money. At the same time, it is clear that one must now allocate more money from the Storting to the construction project, to keep progressing in it, and one must do so in a completely extraordinary way. It is done out of the way, it is done through an urgent procedure within the Financial Committee, so that the project does not stop and costs increase further. I must say, after following this construction project over time, that one must soon search with light and light for things that have gone according to the plan, for areas that have followed the original budget. It's all sad. It is a scandal that has developed over time, despite clear warnings over a long period of time, among other things. of the Central Party, despite clear conclusions reached by the National Audit Office and despite also unanimous decisions taken by, among others, the Court of Auditors. the Control and Constitutional Committee. In the past, the Central Party has raised the question of reducing the ambitions of the project in meeting with the Presidency and parliamentary leaders, without hearing. We have raised the issue of Stortinget as a builder, without any changes. The information provided by Stortinget has at best been deficient. Not least, it is illustrated by the fact that we are here today with the procedure that the case has received. The centre party acknowledges that even if it is not desirable, it is necessary to grant 90 million. kr now, so that the project will not stop and an additional cost beyond what is strictly necessary. We are also meeting a more thorough treatment in the revised version. I fully agree with the representative Aasrud, who points out that it is important then to get all the costs on the table related to the construction project – related to security measures, related to inventory and related to refurbishment of Wessel's site. We have to get the total bill on the table, so we know that, so there won't be any new surprises after you get the next round, in the revision. The centre party looks forward to a more thorough review of the history of the case, but also of how the construction project will be completed within the new cost framework provided by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e984	I would also like to thank the Committee and the committee chairman for their cooperation, and I would like to stress the seriousness of what we are discussing today and the decision we are going to take. Ninety million. NOK is a lot of money. There is also an additional appropriation for a project that has already had large overruns and challenges with project management. I would like to stress with all possible clarity that today we are not dealing with the whole of the construction project or the final cost framework, but only the supplementary appropriations. It is essential, for neither the Committee nor the Stortinge today, as has also been mentioned earlier, have the necessary knowledge to deal with the whole project. The background to this is that the quality assurance was transmitted to the Committee by Dovre Group Consulting and the administrative note on the construction project only a few days before the submission of this recommendation, and it has therefore not been possible to process the material transmitted in depth. However, it is already possible to note that there is still considerable uncertainty about the costs and progress of the project, and that representative is uncertain as to what independent assessments the builder is now making, and what action is now being taken by the builder to ensure good progress and cost control in the future. However, that said, SV considers it necessary to support the proposal for an increase in the mandate framework, otherwise the construction work might stop. It will lead to increased costs and new delays, and it will be very unfortunate when we are first in this situation. The context in which we are dealing with this is that the Stortinget adopted a cost framework for the construction project, which soon after turned out to be incorrect. There is reason to recall that last year's Stortinge in connection with the processing of the construction project together underlined that the Presidency is obliged to'make it possible for the Stortinge to make real decisions on a sound basis'. In addition, it was established that the Presidency ‘is required to report to the Grand Duchy on the further development of the economy and progress in the construction projects individually and collectively’. It is therefore very serious that correct figures have not been used for the examination of the 2018 budget. The size of the store allows money for itself. This means that we have a special responsibility to manage Community money in a good and sound manner. I fear that the issue of this construction project and the repeated overruns of costs weakens the confidence of Stortinget at a time when confidence should be strengthened. Therefore, it is important that expenditure reductions are now sought in the other budgets of the Grand Duchy as a result of these increased expenditures. Such savings should be looked at in particular in the context of the setting of remuneration to grossing-up representatives and the other good representatives. It is important for SV that savings do not go at the expense of Stortingen’s employees and their working day. That being said, it is the presidency's responsibility, in cooperation with the Administration of Storting, to find concrete proposals for savings in the budget of Storting. I will conclude by stating that we will return to the treatment of the project itself when we examine the revised budget. Then we're going to deal with the final cost framework, after the right number of rounds, and I trust that the presidency is now working to make sure that what has gone wrong is not going wrong again. It involves understanding how we have ended up in this situation and ensuring changes and measures that provide sound governance for this project in the future. Me and SV attend this thorough review and treatment later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e997	We stand here today and deal with the case with the nickname building scandal, with the background in many rounds with a scandalous poor handling of Stortinget's construction project, which has charged the community with a billion bill. In red, it seems very critical that the Stortinget was not informed in the past about cost developments. As we saw afterwards, there was information that could have been submitted to the Stortinget before the last examination of the state budget for 2018, but the parties in the presidency had not taken the necessary steps for proper and timely flow of information on the construction project, despite a unanimous decision by which they were required to ensure this. This may have contributed to the government getting the budget process in port before Christmas. We are therefore here today discussing extra appropriations, regardless of the government's tax cuts for those who have the most from before, and regardless of the too high political salaries, with more. It's a udder. Red will stress that it is Stortinget who is responsible for the project that has been responsible for monitoring costs. The fact that the information base of the Storing has been mildly deficient does not change the fact. The current prime minister, Olemic Thommess, said to NTB on 27 February this year that he agreed with those who believe that the Storting itself must cover part of the cost of its own budget. In addition, Thommessen said that he would ask Stortingen’s administration to prepare and present a plan for ‘significant administrative savings’. Right Henrik Asheim said to Dagbladet the day after it was “important that the Storting shows the voters and taxpayers that we can take some of this bill ourselves”. Now we're here. You can almost wonder if the Right said this just to move the focus when the scandal was revealed, because I am aware that no such plan has been presented, and Red is alone in the Committee's position to demand that this process be abandoned. Once again we are served good intentions in note of note, but with the other parties seems the willingness to oblige the presidency to take the announced steps, something absent. We risk that the Stortinget will also have to increase the appropriations in the future without the necessary saving measures being taken. It is not only the trust of the Right that is at stake, this concerns the confidence of the entire Stortinget. Red assumes that the savings that are subsequently proposed are to be made fairly. Storing cleaners shall not take the noise of the miserable project management of the presidency. That the ordinary employee of the Storting should not be unnecessarily injured is therefore a prerequisite for our proposal. That's what we're counting on, the Storting and the presidency to take on. Therefore, it is a little surprising, we think, that SV is justifying a lack of support for our proposal with something that is so clearly stated in Red's comments. Red promotes a proposal that obliges action and follows up the beautiful words on the right that the Storting should take the bill itself. It is a pity that other parties do not support this here today, but it is good to, among other things, SV announces support for cuts in remuneration for politicians at a later stage. Red calls for a genuine will to take hold. An overall committee welcomes the fact that part of the expenditure increases should be covered by expenditure reductions in the other budget of the Storting. You are all welcome to support Mr Rødt's proposal that the Presidency carry out a critical review of Storting's use of money and draw up a plan for significant administrative savings within Storting's own budget, including for the current financial year. With this I take up this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1018	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1023	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur and the committee for their good work. I think that in such a serious and demanding case, it is important that a person be able to gather around the road as far as possible to get into port with the project. This has been a very serious matter for the reputation of Storting, and it is a serious crack. I will refer to the work of the Christian People's Party in the Committee on Control and Constitution and posts on the matter there. With regard to today’s treatment – there are several people who underline and on whom we are clearly in the setting – this concerns an extension of the mandates, so that you can keep the work going. It is absolutely necessary, and therefore the Christian People's Party naturally ends up in it. With regard to the work that the committee has been given from the presidency, I am pleased that one has made thorough assessments and also refers to the quality assurance and the report made by Dovre Group Consulting. Although the committee has had little time to do so, it seems to be a good work that underlies the work of the presidency to continue. Since we had this work last week, the Committee has not been given such thorough work on the matter either, so further consideration will be given to the revised national budget. In the case of Red's proposals, the Christian People's Party does not support it. I just want to meet the argument that came last here. We are all willing to look at how the money is to be spent, and that the Storting must also make cuts in the demanding situation we are in. We're referring to that in the notes, but it also has to be done in a proper way. I believe it would have been hasty already to demand that there should be a job now in a month's time. I think we're sending out clear signals to the presidency. They are responsible for further work on the matter. This will be a continuous work. Then, if appropriate, the Financial Committee will enter into it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1035	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1040	It was actually the representative of Moxnes that made me feel the need to take the floor again. I just addressed this point in my post – I don't know if the representative Moxnes was present in the room then – the fact that an overall committee refers to the clear signals of the Grand President and the presidency that parts of this cost should be taken into the Storting's own budget. The problem with Mr Moxnes’s proposal is that he says there should be significant administrative cuts, and it should be presented before the summer is over, in a matter which is now about extending the powers to allow the Financial Committee to deal thoroughly with the whole matter, precisely because we in the RNB are going to deal with all the cost frameworks and also then discuss how much of this could be taken by the Administration of the Stortinge. When you say that because the majority of the committee does not agree with a proposal that says that you should have a significant administrative cut over a month, you do not want the presidency to find a way to cover its own budgets. It is quite unfair to an overall committee and to all the parties that support that comment, which clearly states that the Storting has a responsibility to find its own budgets. I believe that it becomes a little unreasonable – simply – to try to create a disagreement about this, or to give the impression that someone just says things, but does not mean it. That is not the Committee's position. That is clearly stated in a note, and it is not the presidency's position, which has clearly communicated that they want to find money in their own budgets. But that it should be done in a clean and proper way and not under a heavy time pressure for a director who starts work on 2 May, I believe that the Stortinget should actually give it time. I think that's also going to be a more gentle and proper process for all those who work on the Storting, not just for the representatives, but for all those who do a very good job for us every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1047	I heard Mr. Asheim's comments from the beginning to the end, and I disagree with any of it, not least with the timing estimates. It was in February the Olemic Thommess stated to the NTB that he would ask the Administration of Storting to prepare and present a plan for significant administrative savings. Then, in our view, it should be possible to get such a plan on the table in June. We may be somewhat more impatient in some questions than other parties – that is the case with us – but here, in our view, we need to show that action is put behind the words that fell in February, not least from the Right side, and put in place such a plan, which we can go through and process in a proper way to ensure that the Storting also takes its share of the bill for a project and a scandal for which the Storting is ultimately responsible. Other parties will, of course, also have the opportunity to show the will to tighten up on our own lifeline when we deal with our own rewards, our own wages, how much we will earn in the coming year, here in Stortinget before summer. Then we will also see if it is the will of the other parties – SV has shown it, the others have not shown it so far – to ensure that politicians, who are soon approaching one million in annual wages, also tighten up their own remuneration to protect others on the Storting for cuts that can be perceived as both unreasonable and unfair, because it is the politicians who are ultimately responsible for this crack in the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1052	I think it is necessary to link a few comments to the discussion we now have about cost savings. I would like to express my great satisfaction at the fact that the whole committee is united in this. It's not given, but it's a clear signal from everyone that we want it to be cut. I also think there is a need to understand that the new director, who will implement it, is not in place yet. But she will soon be, and we look forward to that. We look forward to good cooperation with both the Presidency and the new Director in this work in the future. I would also like to point out the fact that in the Red proposal the wording is the'significant administrative savings', not the remuneration of the big business representatives. We need to have a discussion about that. For many years SV has proposed that this remuneration should grow less quickly and not as quickly as it has done. There is something quite different than ‘significant administrative savings’, and I think it is wise to spend time planning how such ‘significant administrative savings’ are to be carried out, so that it is not at the expense of the many employees here at Stortinget, who do a good job every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1063	The representative Bears Moxnes has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1068	The last speaker was concerned about, is precisely what we are specifying as a prerequisite in the comment on the proposal. There is a link between the comments we provide and the proposal that has also been delivered, so I don't think it can be taken into account for example. Cut into cleaners. But it follows from the comment that comes with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1073	I would like to stress, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, the same thing as the chairman of the Committee and others have stressed from this chair that it is very important that one goes thoroughly through cost-saving measures on the Stortinget. As the Senterpartiet has pointed out earlier, there has been a significant increase in administrative expenditure on the Stortinget. It is important that you have a proper thorough review of it, and that the new director, when in place, will have the time to do so, but that it has progressed. It may definitely also relate to costs affecting the depositors and the functioning of the depositors, for example, linked to international travel activity. It may be necessary to review critically why different departments of the Storting have had such a large growth in the number of employees, looking up the types of tasks to be carried out. The centre party welcomes the fact that a plan for this will be put in place, but we believe it has been well taken care of by what has been signalled by the presidency and has been underlined by a unanimous committee in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1080	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1092	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 was the deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1103	During the debate, Mr Tvedt Solberg presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to clarify access to school divine services and to encourage schools to facilitate the participation of students in school gods and ceremonial gatherings initiated by other religious and life views.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1125	The Labour Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e1137	Case No. 3 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e2930	During the debate, Mr Björn Moxnes presented a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls for the Presidency to conduct a critical review of Storting’s money use before the end of the current clearing session and to draw up a plan for significant administrative savings within the Storting’s own budget. This shall also apply to the current financial year.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-26.ana.ud307e2969	There is no record available. Thus, the map is currently processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
