ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e28	The representative of Bjørn Moxnes has requested a permit to provide care on Wednesday 14 February. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Seher Aydar, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e48	Seher Aydar is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e64	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Sylvi Listhaug, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Iselin Nybø will meet for oral Question Time. The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Lene Vågslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e73	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. The level of violence and abuse against children is strongly increasing. There are so many more things, but not enough resources. The increase in cases has not been surprising, it has been a rising trend for several years. The police districts that are going to investigate and take cases before the court have a reduced space for action, and in fact about half a billion less in four years. Children must wait longer than before, which is not good for the young, nor for research. In Oslo police districts, it is reported that polling cases against women are now pending because one does not have the resources to follow up. This is not permitted. It worries me, and I expect the Minister of Justice to have a good answer on how to do this. The Minister of Justice and the Government are talking about attackers being taken, and boasting of bets we haven't seen. What we have seen now is a so-called efficiency reduction reform for the police of well over 100 million. kr, as one up all new funds. Nor have we received a good answer to what should have become more effective. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State believe that one can save himself to help more children and take more attackers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e86	This government hasn't talked about police action, it's actually done it. The last four years and until now there have been over 2,300 new positions in the police, many of them in the districts. What's a fact is that in recent years we've been discovering the extent of child abuse, not least that that's generated through the Internet. It's the last few years Operation Jupiter has been in place, it's the last few years we've had Operation Dark Room, it's the last few years Kripos have been strengthened to deal with these kinds of things – and I'm very happy about that. So I've been very clear that we're going to continue to strengthen this work. Of course, the police officers have taken it with them when they are about to hire more policemen this year. There's more money. But I think we have to be so honest to say that no matter how much money we give, it won't be enough to follow up all the issues that the police are in. It will also be so, at any time, that there are other things in addition to priorities that need to be given. Therefore, it is important that we look in the future both at how we can prevent more, whether we have the tools we need in the police, at the criminal framework, at what follow-up convictions are given in prisons, and not least at what after-care and follow-up these people get after an end of settlement. So the answer to this is not just more money, there are many other things that need to be looked at. I have noticed that the Workers' Party is now promoting a bunch of proposals to spend money in all areas. But if you give priority to everything, you really do not give priority to anything. For me, it's important that we actually give priority to child abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e97	It's the state council that has said that one should do everything in its power to fight down the power and assault. As the Council of State refers to, 17 concrete proposals are being made this year in the United Kingdom to prevent better, clarify more, and help more children who are exposed to violence and violence. One of the proposals is that we want more openness about waiting times at children's homes. That proposal doesn't cost much, so maybe the Council of State is on it? Openness about waiting times at children’s homes has a lot to say in order to be able to see the need for resources, in order to have an informed debate about whether the authorities take good care of the legal certainty of young people. I'm critical that until now it's been imperative for us here at Stortinget and for the media to access these waiting lists within reasonable time because the statistics that exist have not been made public. For this reason, the proposal is very simple: the government is asking the government to publish the monthly statistics that will be passed on how long children will have to wait to get organized in the various police districts. Would the Council support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e102	There has been a formidable investment in children's homes in recent years. 240 million. kr is used for the year to provide children who are exposed to these terrible abuses, follow-up and interrogation. This is a proposal which can be absolutely viewed and which can be assessed. We need to look at the consequences. I'm not against openness, I'm for having the best possible system to help these kids, and for us to have the best possible device to deal with the situation. Therefore, two new subdivisions of children’s housing are now to be established. We're going to have a department in the Churches and one in Sogn and Fjordane, so that children don't travel that far, and so that they can get even better follow-up. It's important in the future that we make sure that we can handle this and help the kids. It is a difficult situation to get into that kind of interrogation. Often, caregivers are involved in the abuses, so it is important that we work to have a professional system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e113	There will be follow-up questions – first Maria Aasen-Svensrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e118	A measure to protect women and children against people who threaten them, and who are potentially violent and dangerous, is a counter-violent alarm, i.e. an electronic foot link. I am therefore concerned that last week the Council of State and representatives of the Progress Party stated that it is easy to take off the electronic footlink, that you will be able to easily escape – that it is almost just to hook off the footlink. If so, it is serious for those who are today protected by the reverse alarm of violence. Is it possible for the Council of State to safeguard those who are today protected by a reverse alarm of violence that this measure will still be able to secure them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e123	Now the representative mixes apples and pears. There's two types of electronic cover. One is electronic footlinks, which it's very easy to cut off, and which are used for atonement where the perpetrators are convicted and can make a simple settlement, where they can be in their own home, go to work, follow up their children and pay taxes while they're at the same time they have a restriction on where they can be located. The emergency alarms are GPS tracking on. They emit sound if you enter areas where you are not allowed to stay. It's a much more advanced and better solution than standard electronic control. Therefore, as the representative says, it is important to have more use of a violent alarm. It is true that the perpetrator is going to have the challenges, not the victim, so I am now waiting for the Police Directorate to come back by 1 June with proposals on how to use the reverse alarm of violence more effectively on perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e130	Maria Aasen-Svensrud – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e135	I note that the Council of State believes that the technique is different from that of the reverse alarm of violence than that of the footlink. However, can the Council of State say whether it is safe enough to ensure that the children's families who are being forced to return are controlled by electronic means?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e141	When you talk about the type of electronic control that is used on families that are going to be sent out, it is what I was in for, among other things. in the day's revision, very easy to cut off. These are people who have used a lot of resources to get to Norway, who have had their dream broken by a refusal and who do not want to travel. Then it is easy to cut off this link and leave. There's something quite different for those who are convicted of conditions that make them zone. These are people who have committed a crime they are going to make up for, who are busy getting on in life, and who in most cases will not be interested in cutting off this link, but actually finish the atonement and get on with it. So there's two different things. I am concerned that the return of those to be returned from Norway is carried out in a good way. It is also true that the families sent out by force have had the opportunity to travel on a voluntary basis. They have not used it, and then the Norwegian authorities have to return it by force.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e150	Emilie Enger Mehl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e155	The police districts are under heavy pressure. The Director of the POD Police Department has pointed out that the increase in the number of offences is much higher than the level of efforts already made in the police districts. In January, the section head of the Department for the Investigation of Serious Sexual Crimes in the Oslo Police District said that there is a ‘mismatch’ between the near-police reform, where there is a desire to build robust districts and competent professional environments, and what we see from awarding authorities. The Oslo police district now has over 100 serious rape cases over 12 months of age. In comparison, the number was only 40 in the summer. My question then is: can the Minister of Justice live with the fact that there is not enough resources to investigate serious rape cases in the Oslo police district?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e162	Priorities will always be needed. What's important is that we've got to strengthen the police, but we're not on target. That's why this government has said it wants to escalate the number of police officers further. Many of them have gone to the districts, where there has been an increase of over 1,200 jobs, which I was in the past. But there are also other agencies in the police that have been strengthened. Kripos, for example, which is very important in dealing with these offences, is our link with Europol, Interpol and other countries. They receive enquiries from other countries relating to different police districts. They can come in with additional competence in the issues that are difficult. We can't just think about one thing. We have to have a whole police force that's rusted up to do the job. It's almost tempting to ask, where will the Central Party cut, when you keep talking about more policemen to the districts – in Kripos, in Økokrim, in PST? Which of these central agencies would you like to cut to allocate more resources to the districts? They say you have alternative suggestions with increases, but it's not credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e171	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e176	We need a more offensive Minister of Justice than the one we hear today, when it comes to partner killing. Crime in Norway is falling, but the number of partner drops is not decreasing. These are notified disasters. Seven out of ten killing men or persons have been in contact with the auxiliaries — the victims too. So it's known. In 2016, Minister of Justice Anundsen promised in an answer to me to research more about this. It hasn't been done. I look at the Ministry of Justice website that this will be done in 2018. It shows that this has not been a priority. Another issue that the government does not have the power to prioritise is the implementation of the SARA and PATRIARC method tools in all police districts, so that the police understand when the alarm goes. Will this Minister of Justice ensure that all police districts do this and not push responsibility down to the Police Directorate and say that it is their fault that this has not been done?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e183	SARA and PATRIARK are being implemented in all police departments. These are important tools to blink out the things and the people you're worried about. So it's being done too fully. That's how Andersen's representative talked about: we're going to follow this up this year, through, among other things. to put down a sample that will go through the partner killings, because in many of these cases we have seen that it has actually been about notified killings. It has been seen that there have been situations in advance that have absolutely indicated that this could be a life-threatening situation. That is why I am very pleased that we are going to put this sample down, and that they are going to review this to see what experience we can gain from these matters, so that we can work preventively and get the alarm clocks to call in those matters that there is reason to be concerned about. When it comes to being more offensive, I guess I haven't had a question about this before. This was the first question about partner drops. At least I'm going to follow up on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e192	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e197	It is time for the government to take these matters into consideration, for it has been sitting for a while and promised action in this area. It hasn't happened. Making sure that all police districts understand when the alarm goes is vital. This is probably the largest group of deaths in Norway and remains stable. Another matter for which the Minister is responsible is mentioned in the Newspaper today. Norwegian men import women — their wives after their wives — in order to mistreat them. In many cases they are sent out of the country because no case is raised. These are crazy people who are all alone, coming here and being subjected to the most serious violence. The Minister is also responsible for foreign affairs, and will she take the initiative to change the legislation, so that these women get protection and help earlier than they do today, and do not have to live in such conditions for as long as they can stay?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e204	This is a relationship that we want to look at, that is, the possibility these women have of being protected. We also want to look at the legislation relating to family reunification, or family immigration, because there is also the situation that needs to be explored in the seams. I don't think anyone in this room wants to have a code that facilitates men importing women and beating them up and mistreating them to the extent that we see possible. That's something we're going to follow up, and that we're going to do to the point, too, by looking at the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e211	Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e217	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for a good debate yesterday. Violence and child abuse are one of the most cruel things anyone can experience from crime, and if we are to cope with it, we need to strengthen efforts in several areas. When the escalation plan was discussed here last year, the Christian People's Party voted together with the government parties, among others. in order for the government to draw up a report on the model of the mental health escalation plan, which shall provide the basis for a further assessment of the economic needs associated with combating violence and abuse during the period of the plan. The government is about to hold a budgetary conference, with clear leadership for the 2019 draft budget. My question will then be: Has the government started to prepare this report?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e224	Of course, we're going to follow up the decisions that Stortinget has made and that are agreed upon. Then I can't say what's going on at the Budget Conference, but I've been very clear that for me, assault on children is a very important matter, where we have to look at many aspects, whether it's prevention, police's ability to follow up these issues, criminality, after-sales and restitution – the whole chain that we depend on to help the defenseless children who are both in Norway and in other countries. We see that a number of men also order bullying through the web, and of course we also have to work to detect and follow up. So this is high priority, without me going into the budget conference and what's coming there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e229	Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e234	I would like to thank you for your answer, and I would also like to remind the Council of State that the report on the state budget for 2019 is urgent. The State Children's House is making an extremely important effort to help violent and perpetrated children and jobs across different sectors. In addition to providing children with organized interrogations at children’s homes, many children’s homes provide good follow-up after-school follow-up. But this is not required by law, and the help given to each child can quickly become arbitrary. The councils were talking very much about the children's houses in town. But what are the plans of the State Councils for the further development of children's homes, and will the Council of State propose a statutory right to follow up children's homes and children's homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e241	It is important to make the children's houses work well. They're doing it evenly over. You have also looked at operating guidelines, and you have to keep working on them. Then I don't want to promise here and now anything about whether to legislate. That's something we have to work on, but it's clearly incredibly important that the children who need help at the children's homes get a good offer when they're in the difficult situation they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e246	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e251	We have a government that has been characterized by giving tax cuts to those who have the most, and tax increases to people most. The Right Party and the Advance Party have had a tremendous willingness to introduce new fees and charges. The big tax cuts have benefited a few – the main sponsors of the Right and Advance Party, the billionaires – while the 6,6 billion tax increases. NOK has been imposed on the many. Now the Council of State, Listhaug, has sent to the hearing a new proposal for a fee increase that affects the many. Now there are many people who lose one they're happy in, who have to pay more. State Council Listhaug will impose a fee on a replacement certificate – which is what you ask when someone dies. If you, for example, loses their spouse, and you want to stay in the house, you still want to have the car and you don't want to carry out an inheritance settlement, you need a replacement certificate, and you ask about it. Until now it has been free, it has been part of the community with which it has set up, but when the Progress Party gets the Council of State, they should approx. 35000 who ask each year for a replacement certificate, pay a fee of NOK 1130. It seems the Progress Party is the right way to withdraw money from people who have lost their spouse or someone else they're happy with. The Progress Party imposes a death penalty – Senior Norway says it's like taxing death. Why would the Council of State, Listhaug, charge $40 million? From those who have lost their loved ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e260	During the period of the central party, Norway, those who lost one in whom they were happy, paid billions of dollars in inheritance fees. It is also fascinating to see the Centre Party now object to this fee, which is to pay for a service you get, when the Centre Party at the budget last year had no comments on this and actually voted for this fee to be introduced. Now that you're standing there and trying to do this -- it's far too far-sighted. You've voted for it, and this is a follow-up to the budget that you actually didn't have any comments on. So I think you better look at what you did in the budget yourself. I believe that those who have lost their loved ones are happy that the Party of Advancement and this government is ruling. So we have removed the inheritance fee, which is a billion. Now that we're introducing a fee for a service, it's relatively modest in relation to the bill you sent to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e267	The President would like to remind you that there is also a need for transparency through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e272	There's something called attack is the best defense. But the point is that there's government councillor Listhaug now proposing this. There was a cautious mention in the budget. Now a hearing note is sent, after Christmas, where you want to introduce a fee for everyone who needs a replacement certificate. I can guarantee the Council of State, Listhaug, that if one does not want to introduce it, the Central Party will support it in the Stortinget. We think it's directly unwise to have a system that makes that if one, for example. sits and shall take care of its own dwelling, one shall pay for it. Before, it was free. State Council Listhaug must be able to answer the following: Does the Council of State think it is right that they lose some and thirty thousand of their closest each year, now to be charged an additional fee? And if she doesn't think it's right, will she draw the consultation proposal? I am absolutely sure that Stortinget will support that you will not introduce that kind of fee – 40 million. kr in the increased fee for those who have lost their girlfriend. Will the Council of State Listhaug draw the hearing note, or will it still be?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e279	It has become a pattern that the Senter party is for fees increases until they are promoted, and then they are suddenly opposed. They were with regard to the sugar charge and the diesel and petrol charge, and now this is what they come with. You said attack is the best defense. I'd say it sounds like the truth is swindling. For the truth, you didn't have any comments on this in the budget. You've also aged your budget with these almost $40 million. I think those who sit at home and look at this are so wise that they see that you're undressed in this case. You have taken part in this decision. In this way, you have a very bad case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e287	The President will again remind you that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e292	I have a very open invitation to the Council of State, Listhaug, to draw up the proposal. It would have been wise to draw the suggestion. I'm absolutely sure the bulk of this stuff will give you support for it. There is no basis for imposing a death fee, as Senior Norway says. I got an answer from Finance Minister Siv Jensen yesterday, where it is mentioned 6.6 billion. the fees introduced while the Progress Party has the Council of State. There it is, among others. referred to a chocolate and sugar levy which affects Norwegian business. That's why I'm going to Torbjørn Røe Isaksen. We now see that the chocolate and sugar levy introduced by the Progress Party State Council, Listhaug, affects Norwegian jobs. We see it in Fyresdal – people are being told off. We see it in Romerike – investments are being postponed. We see the border trade is exploding. Does government councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen think it was wise to introduce the kind of fees before Christmas that now affects the Norwegian food industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e299	After four years of civil government and a civil majority, the Norwegian business sector is facing a decline in taxes and charges. It is quite right that in some of the budgetary agreements at Stortinget, it has also been what is called a tax exchange, i.e. some charges have increased. However, the sum is that taxes and taxes are reduced both for jobs in Norway and for families most in Norway. I heard the representative say initially that the tax and tax reductions had only gone to the billionaires, but that is not true. See, for example: on the new proposal of the Government on the taxation of machinery, which is a tax on equipment – i.e. on a heavy tractor, on agricultural machinery or what it should be. It's a tax that goes directly into and punishes those who invest, own and create values and jobs in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e306	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e311	I had hoped that we had received a Minister of Industry who answered the questions he was asked. The reality is that at Telemark Source Water in Fyresdal, in the State Council's own province, there are fifteen units that are now being cancelled. They are cancelled because of a fee that Right is in the process of being imposed. It is a completely meaningless charge, for it is a charge to reduce sugar consumption – and then the company that produces spring water frames it. That's just crazy what's going on. My question is simply: will the Minister of Industry, as Minister of Industry, take an initiative towards the Minister of Finance of the Progress Party to see if it can change this charge, so that it does not hit the business as hard as we can see now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e316	This sugar levy is the result of the budget agreement on Stortinget. But then the Right Party and Left governments are occupied by jobs, because we are a government that reduces the level of taxes and taxes and not increases, which has been the case in the past, because we are putting forward budgets that lower the level of taxes and taxes in Norway and do not increase it in our budgets, which have been the norm in the past. So, of course, we're also busy getting input from the industry, input from the industry, to see if there's better ways things can hit. But our starting point in this budget is that the levy has been introduced. It's coming. However, the sum for Norwegian business and for Norwegian jobs is that taxes and charges are falling. It is slightly different from the sum of Norwegian jobs if you look at most of the opposition’s budgets — then the taxes and charges on Norwegian jobs, for Norwegian owners, go up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e321	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e326	So the sum of this government's policy is that the taxes on those who have the most in the world are going to go down sharply, and the charges for the most people are going up. State Council Siv Jensen has even said in a reply to the Stortinget this week that 6.6 bn. The fees have been paid by this government. So, as far as I know, it's been almost 40 years since it's been a Minister of Industry from Telemark. Less than three weeks after he sat in the chair, the first redundancies came — consequences of government tax policy. I expect the Council of State to take responsibility for that. The councils are good at travelling around and sung in the glory of success that others have created – for example on Lillestrøm last week. But a few kilometers away, investments were put on ice, when people were licensed at Coca-Cola in Lørenskog. Then the Minister of Industry is not to be seen. How many investments will be lost, how many jobs will be lost, before the Council of State is involved in reforming the charging policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e333	The best starting point for a Minister of Industry is to understand that all the glamour created in the Norwegian business world is that of someone else who created it. It is not that I, as the Council of State, create jobs in Norway. I'm not the one who's betting my savings. I'm not the one who's investing. I'm not the one out there manning the jobs that create Norwegian business. That's the people out there who do. Then there is a completely incorrect manufacture when the representative says that the fees have increased by 6 billion. kr. Yes, it is true that some taxes have also increased, but the sum – the whole – is that taxes and taxes with this government have decreased by 24–25 billion. kr. This is primarily something that has benefited Norwegian jobs, and Norwegian families have also benefited. I'm going as Minister of Industry to visit both those who have troubles, those who have problems, and all those who create jobs, maintain jobs, and Norwegian owners who have Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e342	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e347	My question is a follow-up to the Minister of Justice. I think that the proposal that has now been made on the fee of death is a recognition that yes, it costs, this community that we have, this welfare society – it costs. Then the question is, how do we allocate those costs – who is the one who takes the greatest burden, who is the one who contributes the most? It should be the ones who have the most. Until 2013, up to NOK 470000 could be inherited in Norway without paying an inheritance fee. The red-green government proposed to increase the bottom deduction further, to 1 million. kr, but today's government shrunk it, cancelled the inheritance fee, and called it a tax on death. But this is probably about who you're starting from. How can the Council of State explain that it is those who receive a small inheritance, most people, who have to pay more in charge than they did when the red-green ones crashed? Should it not be the richest in Norway, most of which are heirs, who pay the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e357	When the representative of Kaski's party put in government, they actually judged death so strongly that there were people who had trouble taking over houses and properties that they inherited. It wasn't because they had good advice; it was because these were people who had bad advice. You took in large amounts every time someone died. This is a fee that SV has also been with and supported by the State budget – nor any comment from them – which is now to be a fee for a service, in the same way that we pay a fee if we are to have a passport to leave the country. So I think it's almost the top of rudeness to come here and talk about this, as long as you've collected billions in death tax, as this government has actually removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e364	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e369	This is about who pays the most, who takes the biggest bills. Yes, the inheritance fee gave billions to the state, but it was the richest who paid, and with SV and the red-green government's proposal it would have been the even more rich that actually contributed to the community. This government has given the biggest tax reliefs to the richest in Norway, and then it actually costs this community. And the consequence of the government's deducting it is to introduce more charges, more fees, that spread thinly over most people. A thousand dollars, that's a sum, that's for most people who don't have a lot to go with. But the hundreds of the richest in Norway, two-thirds of whom are heirs – they inherit million amounts – are not going to pay anything into the community, with government logic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e374	So under SV there were people who had problems taking over a house and property because you had to pay so much tax, because you had little. What this fee applies is to pay for a service that has been left behind by a total deposit. So what this Council of State is doing is actually following up the budget decisions of the Storting from last year and sending this out to the hearing. So I think you have a bit of a bad thing when you pick up this fee, while you put in billions of dollars over the years that SV put in government, and that also hit many with bad advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e381	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e386	I had a hope that the Council of State Sylvi Listhaug would say that this is a bad suggestion, that it is a bad suggestion that the 35,000 who lose their closest should pay more than NOK 1 100 in fee. I had hoped that she would take the Stortinget's point that it is not fair that they are dying, who are now going to be charged more, and get a bill sent in the mailbox. But instead of doing so, the Council of State answers with arrogance and believes that it is a trifle that those who lose their closest should pay more than NOK 1 100 in fees. I do not understand why Council of State Listhaug now does not see that the majority of people do not want this fee, and that the consultation note sent out by the Council of State on the increased fee for death is a bad proposal. State Council Listhaug is given a last opportunity: Will she come back to Stortinget, withdraw the proposal and ensure that those who lose their closest will not receive any more fees after 1 July 2018, and that it is the first time in history that we in Norway will have that kind of fee, fee on death?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e393	What this Council of States must do is follow up the decisions taken in this Chamber. It has been decided unanimously to follow up on this fee. What I think is strange, is that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum now shows so much commitment to this fee – while he spent eight years in government and charged billions in death tax, which also hit people who had little. There was no interest in this at the time. So it might be a little late to bring this up now – and in addition to a case where you have been in favour of this fee, and used it to balance your budget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e400	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e405	The Jeløya Declaration states that the government should take: «initiative for an opportunity study to look at different forms of links for the university and higher education sectors, such as the business model, in order to ensure more independent institutions». At the same time, the government is concerned about universities and university autonomy. Over the last few years, the government has cut off cheeses every year in the public sector, including higher education. In fact, with the blessing of the Left, the government has cut close to 1 billion. kr, according to the Swedish Research Association. It's cut so into the bone that there's no more to cut into. And what the government likes to call efficiency cut is far from effective. It is quite normal cut that has affected quality and student follow-up. In addition, the government has tightened up its governance through an increased competitive and intensive funding system. Now the government with the Left in the driver's seat signals a step forward for a more market-liberalised business model. My question to the Council of State Nybø is: why does the Council of State believe that increasing competition and market liberalisation are the right answer to strengthen the professional autonomy of the UH sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e415	It is true, as the representative says, that the Jeløya Declaration states that we should have an opportunity study to look at different forms of association that universities and colleges may have, where the business model is used as an example. I have recorded that it is one of the points in the statement that have created a lot of debate until now, and I am really happy about that, because I think we should always have a debate about how we organise higher education and research. I record that someone has been critical of it, but I also record that parts of the sector are excited to get such an opportunity study, precisely because they are concerned with their own autonomy. To look at the form of association that universities and colleges have today, we can see if there are things we can do just to strengthen autonomy. That is why there are actually two processes we are going to start: we have the opportunity study that the representative himself pointed out. But we've also been working to review the entire law of the sector to see if there's anything there that we can identify and do to strengthen autonomy. And then we'll see where we're going. I think it's important that we don't conclude until we've seen benefits and disadvantages, because there's clearly both the benefits and the disadvantages of such an organisation. Let's get that study in place before we conclude. At least that is my position on the matter. When it comes to having a greater share of funding as a subject of competition, it is about strengthening the best environments. We're going to give our universities and colleges access to funds to develop what they know best and what they're best at. We have to spend our money in a way that makes us stronger our best environments, so that we can be world leaders in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e426	The last time it was proposed for the enterprise model in the university and higher education sectors was in 2003. There were strong protests and demonstrations. Since then, we have gained experience from health businesses, which show that the distance from those who are set to decide will be great, to those who are going to put the decisions into practice. People elected and professionals have been forced out of hospital boards to benefit corporate owners, lawyers and economists, who organize hospitals from closed rooms. Now we risk leaving higher education and research to the private market, where profit is the only rewarding thing. Universities and colleges have important social assignments, and they are not meant to be separated from elected bodies. Who is it that you should do if you start such a study? There's got to be someone who's going to earn it, and someone who's going to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e434	It's said in the Jeløya statement that we're going to conduct an opportunity study. The business model is used as an example at that point in the JELUEA declaration. And that's important: that's an example. It's, as the representative says, positive things and negative things with the way the hospitals are organized. That point in the Jeleia statement doesn't mean we're going to do the exact same thing in the university and higher education sectors. We're going to conduct an opportunity study, and then we're going to look at positive aspects and negative consequences, and then we're going to take an assessment. I'm also concerned that we have to look at the possibilities that not all the universities and colleges are going into that model, but that there might be a chance that those who want it, do it, while those who don't want it, don't. What I am also concerned about is that we ensure that this sector has funding to enable them to carry out their social mission. They must have whether they are part of a new form of association or they continue as they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e446	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e451	My question goes to the Minister of Research and Higher Education. Until 2015, we had a quota scheme for foreign students who were an institutional programme, where the candidates were prioritised by the management of the Norwegian institutions, and where the institutions were to provide fully funded study places. The quota system financed only living and travelling for the students. In the government budget for 2015, the government was able to put down the quota system for foreign students and replace it with a new partnership programme between education institutions in Norway and the countries of the south and a new strategy for higher education and research cooperation with Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa and Japan. In the examination of this, the Committee was clear that this conversion should not be at the expense of students from the global south. Unfortunately, we see today that this is happening, and that almost no students come from the global south to Norway. From 2015 to 2017, the number of foreign students in Norway fell by 501. Half of the reduction is due to 254 fewer students from Africa. Only from Ethiopia was the reduction of 100 students. During the same period, the number of students from North America increased by 233. In the 2018 budget, it was decided that the conversion should be evaluated, but regardless of this evaluation, I will ask the Council of State how she will facilitate the possibility for students from the poorest countries and not just from BRICS to study in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e462	What has been a point of the conversion that was made was that we were going to work together between the institutions, so that not only were there single students who got to Norway to study, and they didn't want to move back to the country they came from, but moved to countries like the United States, Canada, etc. – and that you were involved in some sort of brain flu, by taking them into our universities and educating them here, and then sending them out into the world, but not home again. A little bit of the point was that we were going to have a cooperation between the institutions, so that students were picked up to take part of their study here, and then to go back home to complete it at the university they belonged to, and thus to strengthen both the home university and our Norwegian educational institutions by closer cooperation. As the representative also says, we have agreed that it should be an evaluation. We're going to carry out that evaluation, and then we're going to see what the consequences have really been. It's still a little early to draw conclusions, but that's one of the things we have to be aware of. Internationalisation is important for this government. It's about sending our students abroad to learn both language and culture, but it's also about accepting international students, and our institutions need to use that opportunity to create an environment for internationalisation at the institution, so that not only do we have individual students enjoying our students but the entire student community can enjoy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e473	Thank you for your answer. I expect that we will come back to this again when we get the evaluation on the table, and we hope it will come as soon as possible. These changes not only affect students but also weaken the internationalisation of Norwegian institutions. There has been a shift in the ownership of knowledge institutions in particular to international partnerships in poor countries and the focus on global challenges. The quota system should not be an aid scheme. It had a self-value for the institutions. Now we see a trend that is a long step backwards in the responsibility of institutions to focus on the kind of global challenges and perspectives they have on their institutions. Does the Council of State consider that the institutions have a separate responsibility to have a global perspective on their activities and to ensure internationalisation, or should this be primarily the responsibility of the aid sector, as it may seem that we are moving towards today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e480	The admission of quota students was stopped in 2016, and it is too early to say how the number of foreign students to Norway will develop as a result of the closure. The student mobility from NORPART was started in the autumn semester 2017, so it is still a little early to draw conclusions from the conversion or change that was made. But I agree with the representative that internationalisation is important, and that is why the government will make a big deal about it. As I said, it's going to be about getting our Norwegian students abroad, but I'm also concerned that we're going to take a broader look at it and see what benefits and joy our institutions and our students in Norway have of the international students from all over the world who come to Norway to study.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e485	It opens for follow-up questions – Nina Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e490	As the representative of Groevan correctly points out, the Right-Fremskrit Party government dropped this quota scheme from the 2016 State budget. Well, the allowance scheme had some weaknesses, and maybe it's early, but it doesn't seem that the government's compensation schemes correspond to the intention either. From 2015 to 2017, the number of foreign students in Norway fell, and half of this decrease was due to fewer students from Africa. Since Nybø's predecessors raised doubts about the statistics of foreign students rather than solving the problem, I would like to ask whether the new Council of State now has quality assurance figures for the number of foreign students by country of origin and whether she wants to re-evaluate government's internationalisation strategies since it appears to be a model where fewer students come to Norway, and especially from poor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e495	I believe it is too early to draw any conclusions as the allowance scheme was stopped in 2016. An evaluation will be started, and once we get that evaluation, we will of course need to assess the situation based on what that evaluation says, but I think it is too early to draw any conclusions now. I am a little uncertain about what quality assurance figures the representative asks for, but if the representative sends a written question, we will ensure that the representative gets the answers and the figures she is looking for. When it comes to internationalisation, there's a big message, and then we're going to discuss this topic in width. I think that's important, I think that's good. I think the Storting will also enjoy seeing internationalisation in a larger perspective, because it is important in our sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e502	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e507	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. Fresh figures from the Central Statistical Office in November show that Norwegian investment in the fossil industry is estimated to be 144 billion. DKK in 2018, while investment in all other industries is estimated at a total of 21 billion. kr. This means that for every krona invested in the mainland industry, 7 kr goes to the fossil industry. Yesterday, the leader of the Economic and Social Committee stated that the fossil industry has more favourable reimbursement arrangements and tax rules than all other Norwegian industries, and that these distorting framework conditions could be unlawful State aid under the EEA and ESA. The government continues to boast that blue-blue policy is giving green growth. At the same time, Norway is well below the OECD average of key indicators for green growth by the OECD. My question is: will the Minister of Industry work to give other industries the same conditions as the fossil industry, or will the Minister of Industry address this problem of eliminating the special conditions of the fossil industry, so that other greener industries can compete on equal terms in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e521	If the question is whether the rest of Norwegian industry should receive the same tax conditions and, in particular, reimbursement for exploration costs, which is at the heart of the tax system for the oil and gas industries, now that there is a sky-high tax or profit tax – the answer is no. I think that would be a terrible bad idea, just because the oil and gas industries are wired together in a completely different way, and there's a logic in the system. Of course, the Greens do not agree with that logic, and that is because the Greens want to remove – abolish – what is Norway's most important industry, and which otherwise also has a lot of the technology that we will need for the greens to change – not to mention all the jobs that are being lost. Now it's probably not happening overnight, but it's probably happening over a decade – so people can look forward to it. On the second question, if we need to do even more for green competitiveness in Norway, the answer is yes. We are focusing massively on research, including research into environmental technologies, we are putting great emphasis on green competitiveness, we are investing heavily in our own investments in environmental industries, and we are also focusing heavily on the important industrial activities we have. In fact, they are involved in developing environmentally friendly technology and making it not something that is sour, bad and difficult, but a market opportunity for Norway that can create green and profitable jobs here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e528	Governments may not have realised that during the last four years of government, Norway’s position on green growth indicators has fallen. So we hope for a real change of course very soon. But the Jeloya platform says that the oil industry must have a stable framework. At the same time, the government party promised the Left in the autumn to look at the entire oil tax system. Is it then, as the Minister for Industry sees it, opening up to change the oil tax system and at the same time fulfilling the Jeleia declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e533	Now the oil and gas industry, as well as the tax and tax system, is not my constitutional responsibility. As regards the follow-up to the framework conditions for the oil and gas industry, I think the Minister for Oil and Energy will have to answer for the details. But, of course, oil and gas industries must have a stable framework. This is a very important industry for Norway. It is not an important industry just for all those who are offshore every week, but for an entire supplier industry. What we're going to live on in the future, even in the distant future when we may not have oil and gas, is all the technology, all the creativity, all the new solutions, all the experience and all the knowledge we've gained in our golden years as an oil and gas nation. Drawing the plug for the Norwegian oil and gas industry — or putting it in the stopper, it is likely to be a more accurate image — will not only lead to the withdrawal of tens of thousands of jobs over a short period of time. That makes a lot of people, especially in the West, unemployed, and we also get a huge loss of technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e538	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e543	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Both the minister and I were at the people's meeting at Holmlia yesterday, an area that has some real challenges, and where, fortunately, there is also a great local commitment to the community. Hundreds had met because they would join in and find solutions for their neighborhood. Many clearly stated why it is time to address the serious problems of living in the area and that better provision for young people is also important. Sørdre Nordstrand has been underfunded for a long time. There are still budgetary gaps in the area of child protection, and there are few offers for young people. Now it has to be over that Søndre Nordstrand is being ignored. The urban exposure shows that the inhabitants will no longer accept it. They require fair treatment. The Municipality of Oslo is in the process of reversing the bias, but the state must also enter. Red proposed more than a sevenfold increase in the area effort in the proposals for changes to the State budget. We also proposed increasing appropriations for both the Groruddals and the inner East bet, but the government had other things they wanted to spend on, for example. even more tax havens, taxes like people at Holmlia didn't notice anything else. So my question to the minister is, what does the government do to prevent the crime of Holmlia, and what social measures does the government plan to contribute to the area?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e552	The people's meeting at Holmlia yesterday was very good, where one had discussed part of the challenges that are in the area. On the contrary, I would say that Holmlia is not overlooked. We are now increasingly present there, among others. through the police, who have been given increased appropriations to deploy reinforcements, both on the prevention side, by having more people working with young people at risk of entering the criminal environment, and by working to get the young people now coming in out of the environment. At the same time, we must also work with the more harsh criminals and get those who recruit young people into the environment. I think the chief of police in Oslo and John Roger Lund gave a very good description of both the efforts that are there, and not least of the reinforced efforts that will be put forward in the future. So it's like there's other government councils besides me that's going to be active in the follow-up of the area out there. Several of my colleagues are going to be active in a cooperation plan that we are going to have with the Municipality of Oslo, and I am sure they can explain more about the measures for which they want to be responsible. But my responsibility is the police side, preventing crime, investigating crime, ensuring the security of people in the area, and we have a plan for how to do that. At the same time, there is reason to stress that this is not a quick fix. It's going to take time, and that's why it's important that we work systematically in the future to get control of the situation, and I think everyone agreed that we should.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e563	I've worked with young people in Oslo myself. We were working to raise young people's awareness of finding their own strength, so that they could make the right choices when they had to make choices. And if there was one thing I learned from it, it was that offering to youth is an important prerequisite for preventing young people from being recruited to crime. Efforts to provide leisure and poverty reduction are both anti-crime and have its own value. It's not that hard: youth needs a place to be, things to do and adults to see them. So my question is: does the Minister see the relationship between the problems of Holmlia and poor living conditions, high unemployment and the lack of youth services?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e576	It's probably a composite picture of why the situation is as it is on Søndre Nordstrand and Holmlia. Both the provision of youth, poverty reduction and these conditions are primarily municipal responsibilities. It is Oslo municipality that must be in the driver's seat in relation to these questions. So it's, because it's so important for us to have control in this area because we see it going in the wrong direction, also so that the state has involved itself – and is going to involve itself – to a greater extent than what we do in very many other areas in Norway. So it's a composite picture. Clearly, the challenge of integration is a cornerstone here. Clearly, we see that the environments where there is crime are characterized by immigrant gangs, which we have to deal with in order to get control of the situation. We've seen in our neighboring country that it's gone wrong. We have the chance to make sure that it doesn't, and that's why we're now increasing our effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e585	There were many at the public meeting yesterday at Holmlia who gave a clear message to the minister that the problems they have at Holmlia were primarily about living conditions and economic differences and not about origin. For whose district Søndre Nordstrand was a separate municipality, it would be at the top ten over unemployment. It's nice that the West gets crisis packages, but there's a lot of unemployment problems in Oslo as well. Getting people to work is important to prevent children and young people from growing up in poverty, and areas of great poverty are the areas that top crime statistics. So my question is, what does the government do to ensure that people on Søndre Nordstrand get a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e592	This is not my responsibility, so it's probably the wrong minister to ask that question. But comparing the situation in the West and here — once again — will be to compare apples and bananas. In the West, there were people who lost their jobs because it was a period of decline. There are many who have never been in employment and who may not be qualified to enter the Norwegian labour market for the time being, because of language barriers, lack of competence, etc. So it's probably too many a longer canvas to bleach than the situation that was in the West. But these are things that also occupy the government, and that is why several of my colleagues are involved in the work – including, of course, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who is responsible for Nav, who is very important in lifting this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e602	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e607	My question goes to the Minister of Industry, and then I can also congratulate him on the important task it is to be Minister of Industry. He was in the fasitite instead, and the fasitite after four and a half years with a government with the Right in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, is that we have a worryingly weak job growth, where the proportion of employed persons has not been lower than since 1995. The task of industrial policy is to ensure that the many opportunities are actually seized, that they are used, and that we are able to generate growth and get more in work. One of the industries that have future opportunities is a complete maritime cluster. Boat builders, designers, ICTs, engineers, skilled workers and not least shipowners and seafarers are involved in putting this complete industry in a world-leading position. As far as shipping is concerned, we have set up from the Community with two strong pillars to have a strong nourishment. It is not only the search for fusion that is good, it is also the shipping tax – which is very favourable – and not least we have a good system of grants for the employment of seafarers, the net pay scheme. The fact that we have shipowners who choose the Norwegian flag with Norwegian seafarers on board creates legitimacy and a willingness to maintain and continue such very favourable arrangements. In the context of the State budget, we now understand that the government intends to make changes that can water down and challenge this. If during the course of the year the government gives rise to foreign ferries with routes to ports outside the Nordic region being flagged from NOR to NIS, this means that Norwegian seafarers can be replaced by foreign workers on these ferries. In the first instance, it means that Color Line with its two ships that run in a route between Oslo and Kiel could be registered from NOR and into NIS. This means that the demand for Norwegian seafarers will cease, and we can thus find ourselves in a situation where Norwegian seafarers are put ashore, while foreign workers board. And not enough: foreign workers are heavily subsidized by the Norwegian net pay system. Is this a good, correct and forward-looking maritime business policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e624	First of all, thank you for the congratulations from the representative of Aasland. I agree that we have many growth industries in Norway, and it is also worth saying that although it is true that the employment rate in Norway is too low, it is a fall that started many years ago – even before this government. I remember for myself that Stein Reegård, who was then a chief executive in LO, warned against it, and among other things. that much of the employment growth under the red-green government was filled by migrant workers. That's what they said. The maritime industry in Norway is a future industry. It's a future industry not only because of our shipping companies, but also because of Norwegian seafarers. This government is concerned that we should have Norwegian seafarers, we have legalised the net pay scheme, we have secured the framework conditions. And then there's a balance there that I want to be completely open and honest about. On the one hand, we need to have framework conditions, for example: shipping taxes — in and on net pay systems as well — which allow competition in a very international industry. On the other hand, we are concerned that we should have Norwegian seafarers, we are engaged in good working conditions, we are engaged in having a good salary level – a Norwegian salary level. We have to hit that balance line. My starting point is that the Right-Fremskrit party government in the previous period, already in 2015, announced that there were going to be some moderate changes in the limitations of the sea area. A selection work looked at the same thing, and a majority of the sample pointed out that it was a good idea. In concrete terms, it has been primarily linked to Color Line and the ships they have in traffic. The sample argued that this was in reality faced with a choice where, in the worst case, 2 500 Norwegian jobs were put at risk, in the worst case, putting 700 Norwegian jobs at risk. Then it is worth mentioning that an important part of the conversion and strengthening of the net pay scheme has also been that so-called NIS ships now have a different and better net pay scheme than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e637	There may have been significant changes in the net pay scheme following recommendations from the SSC. From this point of view, we believe that it is very wrong to allow – as in the case of Color Line and their Kiel ferries – to go from NOR to NIS. Then the balance which, in my opinion, the Minister of Industry is doing quite right to be concerned about, and we get a situation where it is difficult to defend and argue for a net pay system in the future. Everyone realizes that it's quite remarkable. Let's take an example of an EEA sailor making $30,000 a month, and we have an estimate of 680 seafarers – then we're talking about a tax subsidy on foreign workers of over 50 million. kr. Get it, whoever can! At least that's not good maritime policy. I now encourage the Minister of Industry to go into the actual situation – look at what has happened after the Speed Committee gave its recommendation, and look at what has been done with the net pay scheme, and then ask the question: Is it right to make the changes that the government has announced it will do?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e644	As a new government council, it's a matter of course that I go into all the issues. I'm going to have a meeting with the mariners' organisations, i.e. the trade union side, this week, and of course I'm going to be busy listening to your side of the case. But this is also a discussion that has lasted a long time. It's a discussion that has a history, this is a announced political change by the government. It is not a major change either. It is a moderate change in the limitations of the sea area, and it comes at the same time as the government has strengthened – statutory – the subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers and made changes that have probably contributed to the fact that while maritime industry has been in a rather tough situation – now it seems that it is shining – it has been clear to maintain about the number of Norwegian seafarers. It is also the government's policy in the future. We need to find the balance, we need Norwegian seafarers, and we need to bet on maritime nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e649	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e654	I would also like to congratulate the Council of State on his confidence as a new Minister of Economic Affairs. We have already started the discussion with regard to this matter, which I think many are very concerned about. It's true, as the Council of State says, that the Maritime Committee in 2014 presented its position, but Norwegian seafarers were critical of exactly what it had to do with Color Line. I feel that the Council of State is now arguing on the basis of old information and old news. The same line of reasoning was used in 2014, even though the net wage system has increased, even though exchange rates have changed, and even though Color Line is operating with large sums in positive terms. What is important now is to look at how to strengthen the whole value chain and ensure a serious Norwegian working life also for the Norwegian seafarers, who are important in the maritime cluster. Is the Council ready to upgrade the arguments and set a new course for this policy, rather than putting Norwegian seafarers on land?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e665	There can be no doubt about what is the government's starting point: we need a strong maritime industry – it is a future industry – and we need Norwegian seafarers. It's actually so important that we use 2 billion. kr of taxpayers' money, which we could spend on hospitals, teachers, roads or police, because we are busy with Norwegian seafarers. There is no secret to anyone in private business or any of those working in private business that business cycles will fluctuate – it goes up and down. But we can't make a policy based on whether a company does well right here and now. We need to establish a long-term and predictable policy, which allows us to maintain, in the long term, the best possible maritime nutrition in Norway and have the most Norwegian jobs with Norwegian owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e672	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e677	The Marines' Federation is quite concerned about this situation. I understand that, because if you first give a green light to the flagging out of Color Lines Kiel ferries, you are involved and help to make changes in the competitive situation in the rest of the Nordic region. This was to a very small extent illuminated by the Maritime Committee, and the seafarers have asked the Council of State to take that situation into account. The issue has been raised in the Nordic Council, where concerns about this situation have also been reported. The possibility of allowing Color Line to move into NIS means that a domino effect can be triggered that not only changes Norwegian seafarers' pay and working conditions on board the ships of Color Line, but also changes DFDS, Fjord Line, etc. Then you've set in motion a ball that's rolling fast. Can the Council of State take responsibility for contributing to the deterioration of the pay and working conditions of these ships, thus contributing to the disembarkation of seafarers with good framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e686	As the representative Botten is of course aware, I am not a politician or a state councillor who decides whether an enterprise wants to stay in Norway. What I can do, as the Council of State, is to listen to different arguments, find the right balance between the concerns of Norwegian seafarers, Norwegian employment and Norwegian wages, and the fact that we want to have as many functions as possible in Norway, that is, that a very competitive industry should be as much as possible in Norway. I am familiar with the discussion that has been about e.g. Norwegian international ship register and the Danish ship register, i.e. there will be a danger that Norway will be given conditions that will allow many to move from Denmark to Norway. My starting point is that there is also a balance. We have no interest in initiating a kind of race with Denmark that could lead to poorer pay and working conditions, or more ships being lured into Norway. However, moderate adjustments and changes would make sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e694	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e699	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. I'd like to follow up on the case of footlinks, which we had a little bit about here before today, and I want to make clear three things. No. 1: It is the same footlink that is used as the reverse dial alarm, which we now propose is to be used for children's families to be transported. If it's safe enough for them, it should be safe enough for these. No. 2: It is not easy to avoid footlinks, even if the Council of State tries to create that impression. No. 3: Government has an obligation to provide alternatives to child imprisonment. It should be the last resort. My question to the Council of State is: Is Norwegian authorities investigating whether it is possible to apply alternative solutions to the detention of children today? In that case, which options are considered, and which options does the Council of State consider relevant for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e706	Much work has been done to improve the conditions of families with children to be sent out by coercion. These are families who have had time to travel voluntarily, who have not done so, and we have to follow out. We have created a new offer at Haraldvangen reception – temporary – while we are going to get a separate offer, which takes a little longer. This is, as I know, a very nice offer, which is far freer, and where you are in no way under the same conditions as at Trandum, and I would recommend that the representative Awake! travel out and look at those facilities. I'm going out myself next week – if you want to be with me, you're very welcome to it. The important thing is that we get good facilities for families, but at the same time we have control, so that we actually get sent out the ones that are going out. In the case of footlinks, it is primarily linked to criminal asylum seekers whom we do not get sent out, those who have been refused to cooperate with the Norwegian authorities, on whom we may have unclear identity, and who do not want their home country to cooperate with the Norwegian authorities on. Then we look at the use of footlinks, GPS-guided like this, because these – some of them – include: is responsible for doping and other types of crime in some parts of Norway. So that's something we still have to evaluate. Such a type of footlink for families with children must be a supplement to the facility in Haraldvangen, because it's too easy just to cut the link off and run off. I understand that these families prefer not to travel – Norway is a great country to be in – but it is important that we maintain the asylum facility.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e713	My question went more directly to the government council earlier today, that there was a difference between these footlinks. But it is the Labour Party that is now proposing in Stortinget that one should use footlinks, exactly the same type – the same technology – as a user of those who today have reverse election alarms, instead of internalizing children. Does the Council agree with me that it is the same technology, and that it will be an equally good measure to protect, or does the Council of State believe that those who are currently using the reverse electoral alarm are not sufficiently protected in relation to those who have been delayed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e718	I believe that if you're going to spend it on these families, it has to be like a supplement to a place where we can have them, and it's somewhere now, Haraldvangen, where you stay for a short time before being transported out of the country. I would once again encourage the representative Awake! to come out and look at these facilities before judging it north and down. There has been a good job finding premises and building up an offer out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e725	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e730	Then I can also take advantage of the opportunity to wish Røe Isaksen welcome as Minister of Industry in Stortinget. I would like to address questions related to the Norwegian food industry, an industry that we have seen that, at times when things have gone up and down in other parts of the economy, there have been stable and busy value creation and jobs. It is an industry that is very dependent on political framework conditions and not least stable framework conditions. The Minister of Industry is sure to talk a lot about stable framework conditions, but the fascination with this government is that we have often seen unstable conditions as a framework for individual industries. Then I want to go back to Fyresdal in Telemark, where as a direct consequence of government policy, 15 jobs are now gone. There's a lot in a municipality like this. The corresponding figure from the population would be over 7 000 jobs in Oslo. So this is because one in the fight against sugar has introduced a charge on spring water. So my question is very specific: what will the Minister of Industry do now to improve the conditions for Telemark Source Water? Would you like to look at the fees you have introduced and how they will pay? And what would a person do to meet them wanting to contribute to the creation of value and to have jobs like these 15 families that are now the frame of Fyresdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e741	If you read the case in today's Varden about Telemark Source Water, which is a company I visited several times at home in Telemark when I was a staging representative, then you can see that it is probably not quite right that it is only because of the government's policy. There they say, among other things. that they have lost a large customer, ICA, who wants more local, shorter route. There is also a very good and optimistic news there, because the company says they think there are great opportunities here because we are a clean country – we have good water, not least in Telemark. The case ends with the company saying that they believe that in 10–15 years there will be more jobs in Fyresdal than it is today. That said, all politicians, including government parties, have to take on board the fact that some of the most important issues for business are predictability — and predictability as much as possible — but it is also the case that budgets are going up every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e748	I think it's a bit of comfort to those who now lose their job in Fyresdal, that it should be better in 10–15 years. They are living their lives now, and there is no doubt when one sees the matter in Varden, that the government's tax pick has our share of what is happening. So I'd like to, when one saw that the policy had an unfortunate outcome, when one saw that imposing a levy on things is not fit to achieve the purpose one had then introduced the fee, that one could have said: OK, maybe this was unfortunate, maybe I as Minister of Industry should talk to the Minister of Finance from the Progress Party and ask her if we can't find a more flexible way to do this, and if we can't make them adjustments, so we can keep and strengthen these jobs. My question is: will the Minister for Industry take such an initiative to improve this charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e755	If the concern is primarily for leave in Telemark – and I understand very well that for those who now lose their job in Fyresdal, it is tough and difficult, it is – and if you look at Telemark as a whole, the leave in Telemark is lower than since, I think it is, in 2008 or 2007. So that the government's economic policy has not benefited Telemark, I don't think anything points out. Just because we are a government for private business, a government for jobs in the private sector, we are always concerned with two things: that taxes and taxes should go down and not unjustly affect Norwegian owners and Norwegian jobs, and that we are always interested in, of course, having dialogue and getting an idea of how the tax and tax system can get better if it has bad effects. At the end of the day it must be allowed to remember that in this case too, the Zenterpartie has previously been a driver. Kjersti Toppe of the Health and Care Committee has repeatedly stressed the importance of a sugar levy. So when did it come? The center party has got what they wanted. [[President clubs]] That's...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e768	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e774	The fact that the time off is low in Telemark is not very helpful for those who are now being cancelled in Fyresdal. The Minister of Industry is well aware of the geography, travel distances, etc., there. Telemark Source Water is a key enterprise in a district municipality, rather illogically located, really. But what's interesting to hear is, does the Minister of Industry have any tools? Is there any initiative he will take towards the food industry or Telemark Source Water that will improve the situation, instead of just standing here and talking and talking without doing anything? What will the Minister of Industry do to the food industry in general, and what will he do to Telemark Source Water and Fyresdal Municipality in particular, which have come into a vulnerable situation where the corner stone business is shut down?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e779	The reason I'm standing here talking is that Stortinget invites me to answer questions. It would have been very arrogant of me as the councillor to come here and not answer the questions I was asked. I am busy answering as short and concise as possible, so that I can get back to the office and get things done. That being said, Telemark Source Water is not to be laid down. The number of jobs drops from 30 to 15. I have not yet received any enquiries from the municipality or others. I fully agree that this is an important business. As far as the food industry is concerned, there is now a proposal from the Storting on a wholesale notification, which sees all the instruments for an important industry in the context. That's what we're evaluating, and we're looking at right now. It is also the case that for the food industry and for Telemark Source Water and all other private workplaces around this country are important things such as: the tax on Norwegian owners, the taxes on machinery, is absolutely essential in order to be able to secure jobs and not make them more difficult. Then I must remind you that, as far as I remember, the Workers’ Party was also in order for a sugar levy to be paid. At least it was not removed in its alternative budget, as far as I remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e790	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e804	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question I, from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt to the Prime Minister, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Prime Minister has left. Question 2, from the representative Anette Trettebergstuen to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative Björn Moxnes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 12, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e828	This question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Prime Minister has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e842	This question has been transferred to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. However, the question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e856	Household liabilities have increased longer than income. On average, Norwegian households have a debt that is more than twice the size of their disposable income. It is among the highest levels of household debt that can be observed both historically and internationally. High and rising indebtedness in households is a vulnerability to the Norwegian economy and has contributed to the build-up of financial imbalances. The government has introduced several measures to counteract the build-up of financial imbalances and make banks and households more robust for disruption. The banks have a large part of their lending to the household sector. In recent years, governments have increased the capital requirements of banks. Better capital adequacy makes banks more solid and better rusted to withstand loan losses. Appropriate regulation ensuring sound financial institutions is an important instrument for ensuring financial stability. The main objective of the Housing Loan Regulation introduced in the summer of 2015 and tightened by the end of 2016/2017 is to contribute to a more sustainable development of the Housing Loan Market. The requirements shall help to reduce the risk of households absorbing more debt than they can serve, and will end up in a vulnerable situation. Last year's financial supervision's housing loan survey showed a slight decrease in the share of new loans with particularly high liabilities. We are facing a time of gradual normalization of interest rates. Those who have loans must be able to bear that interest is increasing. No one has earned the unmanageably high level of household debt. The government has also tightened the taxation of secondary dwellings in order to make housing speculation less profitable. A major interest in housing that the investment object has been involved in repressing housing prices and thus the level of indebtedness in households. In the summer of 2015, the government presented a strategy for the housing market. The aim was to facilitate faster, simpler and cheaper housing. The measures have probably contributed to the increase in housing construction we have seen recently. The strong growth in consumer loans in recent years is also a source of concern. Consumption loans can provide economic freedom, but also create major challenges for those who raise larger loans than they can serve. Therefore, the government has laid down new rules for the marketing of consumer loans. A new Debt Information Act has also been introduced with a view to establishing a Consumer Debt Register. It will help to prevent customers from being granted larger loans than is warranted. The housing prices have fallen recently. It has been healthy and has slowed down a stronger fall in housing prices at a later stage. At the same time, it takes time before reduced housing prices turn into lower debt growth. It is not surprising, therefore, that the debt growth is still sustained. We expect household debt growth to slow slightly in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e873	I thank you for your answer. It is true that debt growth has been high over many years, with a further increase of 6.5 pst. in the last 12 months on top of it again. Norwegian households have a debt of approx. 100 pst. For example, the IMF recommends that it should be at a level of approximately one per cent over time. 30 pst. What the IMF also says, in its stabilisation report for 2017, is that in the short term, debt growth will lift the economy in the country, while in the medium term it will slow growth and increase the risk of financial crises. Is this agreed by the Council of State, and why has one not taken stronger measures to reduce the growth of debt in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e880	As I explained in my previous reply, the government has implemented a wide range of measures that will have an impact over time on the debt growth of households. Household debt growth has also been quite stable in recent years. What we're seeing now is that it's the debt of the corporations that's taking on, and it's actually a very good sign, because it indicates increased activity, increased optimism and companies want to take new investments in nutrient activity. It's positive. There is no doubt that I am concerned about the overall development of debt in households. This is especially because households are vulnerable in an unexpected situation or interest rates start to normalize and then rise. We must pay attention to this, because if there is too much impact in the household sector, there is a threat to financial stability in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e887	I thank you for your answer again. As regards part of the measures to which the Council of State refers, for example, measures to limit consumer loans, the government has not been sitting in the driver’s seat there – there are measures that have come through the Storting, whether to tighten up the marketing of consumer loans or in the case of debt registers. One should also have implemented several measures, including: linked to interest rate caps. State councils describe that it's really positive, what's happening in some areas through increased debt. Well – investment in key sectors in Norway is not on the way. There are significant challenges related to investment in oil and gas and also to investment in the mainland, investment in industry. Earlier in the Questionnaire here today, it was referred to Coca-Cola on Lørenskog, which is adding investment plans for 100 million. ice-cream due to the government's tax policy. This combination can contribute both to the reduction of stability in the Norwegian community and to the reduction of growth over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e896	It is this government that has been sitting in the driver’s seat both in implementing measures to achieve a better balance between supply and demand in the housing market and in the constraints made by the Housing Loan Regulation that have proved to be effective. Interest rate caps are a request decision in Stortinget, which we now have to assess. There may be reasons to apply such an interest rate ceiling, but there may also be unintended effects of that, which we are now looking at more closely. Otherwise, I will strongly refute the claims made by the representative, Gjelsvik, that the Norwegian economy is not doing so well: all the arrows have turned around. Optimism is on its way back. Businesses are increasing activity and looking forward to the future. Unemployment is on its way down, growth is on its way up. That is the starting point, and it is because this government has conducted a rigorous and targeted economic policy where we have been concerned with the framework conditions for Norwegian business. Then you have to reduce the total tax burden and not tighten it, which is the central party's recipe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e908	‘Government will simplify the VAT system and reduce the number of bets. The NHO and the travel industry point out that the government has weakened Norway as a travel-life destination by increasing VAT. From 8 to 12 pst. This has also resulted in a more expensive and less accessible cultural offer for most people. The unpredictable increase in VAT, in two rounds, has led to a weakening on the bottom line of the industries of the contracts and agreements already concluded. How are fewer VAT bets to be set up, and what bets should be removed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e915	It is true that the Storting decided to increase the low VAT rate twice, last in the budget for the current year, when it increased to 12 pst. Both times the government has proposed changes to the low rate of VAT, the Workers' Party has abstained from the proposals. At the same time, the Workers' Party has actively proposed tax incentives. In the draft budget for the current year, the Labour Party proposed to increase the tax by 8.3 billion. kr. This is not a good contribution, either to Norwegian business or to travel life in particular. It is the overall framework conditions that matter to the sole proprietors. The government has provided considerable relief that has helped to improve the framework conditions for travel as well. Among other things, lower corporate taxes contribute to increased profitability for travel. In the period from 2013 to 2017, it has been given as much as 6.1 billion. kr in total net business tax relief. This year's budget provides a further 2.7 billion. kr in reliefs from the business tax. The government is committed to pursuing a responsible economic policy that stimulates increased economic growth and a sustainable welfare society. A good and effective tax system is essential to achieve this. The Jelaua platform is in good agreement with the government's tax policy so far. The platform points to the need for the tax system to be growth-promoting and to facilitate enhanced competitiveness. The level of taxation shall be reduced. At the same time, it is necessary to improve the tax system by reducing tax rates and to simplify it by critically reviewing tax deductions that have little connection to income and work. The tax bases shall be ensured by avoiding elongation. Simplifications in VAT and the reduction in VAT rates will be one of several measures to achieve a more efficient tax system and will provide simplification gains both for traders and for the tax system. In a measurement of the administrative burdens of VAT carried out by the consulting company Rambøll in 2004, VAT-based activities such as sales of goods or services at several rates had more than twice the administrative burden of VAT rules compared to those which only sold goods and services at one rate. A system of reduced rates would therefore potentially lead to significant administrative burdens for operators. The Government will make proposals for changes to the tax rules for the Storting of the annual government budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e930	I asked what VAT rates the Minister of Finance wants to come with, so I'm going to repeat that question. But first I want to say that both hotels and ski lifts, public transport and cultural services have been noticed on the body of the government's unresponsive business policy. Some of the most important things for enterprises are robust framework conditions. Twice they have received a VAT increase of 2 pst. We, the Minister of Finance, are contributing to good conditions by saying here what are the bets that I am putting up, should be deceiving themselves for the future? Is it up to 15 pst, or up to 25 pst.? Should there be one or two in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e937	As I said in my previous reply, the government is making proposals for changes to the tax system in relation to the state budget every harvest. The representative Hegø simply has to lubricate himself with patience – they come when the budget is presented. But these Christmas Presangs it refers to are Christmas Presangs to which the Workers' Party has joined and to which the Workers' Party obviously agrees. The predictability that this government is going to continue is to facilitate the framework conditions for Norwegian business, and it is about continuing to reduce the overall tax burden and not to do as the Labour Party proposes every single year; strong reinforcements that will burden Norwegian business in a situation where they need to take new investments to create more jobs. This predictability has been given to business by this government. There might have been a reason why the election went as it was in the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e944	I don't share your perception of reality. Most of the companies I meet ask for good framework conditions. You are in a government that proposed to introduce this, and then you can't be in debt to the Labour Party. We're not the ones to secure multiples for you. Two out of three hotels go to minus. The contracts are concluded and goods are sold before the government's VAT increase came. This increase must then be borne by the hotels themselves, and it actually jeopardizes jobs. Two times he's got an extra he's right before Christmas. So I'll ask you in a slightly different way: how will the Council of State define good framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e951	The President would remind the representative that posts should be directed via the President and not directly to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e956	This government does not jeopardize jobs, rather the opposite. Over the last four years, we have shown that it is possible, by pursuing an offensive economic policy, to bring unemployment down in Norway. This means that more people have come to work, more people have got a job, and more companies are doing well. The basis for this is predictable framework conditions. We have implemented a tax reform in line with what we said, namely that we should make changes within the tax system on the condition that we should at the same time facilitate corporate taxation. It's given results. And then I realize that this government has made proposals to increase the low VAT rate twice. What I'm trying to say is that the Workers' Party has agreed to this. Trying to create the impression that this is something the Workers' Party has been against is not right. But just to put it in perspective: a cinema ticket has become 2.50 kroner more expensive with this, and a hotel bed 30 kroner more expensive with this. Creating the impression that this isolated puts jobs at risk is with respect to reporting wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e968	My question is: «The work on innovation and new curricula is under way. In the treatment of Report. Article 28 of the Single European Act stated that ‘it is important that such a process be carried out with broad involvement. [[2015-2016]] The Committee assumes that the process of renewing the curriculum takes place in close cooperation with professional environments and representatives of teachers, school leaders and school owners.» How do state councils ensure that teachers, principals and school owners are locally involved in the process, in line with the Storting assumption?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e977	The government has put emphasis on and has high expectations for involvement in the process towards new curricula. I have a strong desire for teachers, school leaders and school owners to engage in trade renewal. We have also arranged for this. I believe that this is essential for us to have a curriculum that is well anchored in those who are going to use it in their daily work with the students. Implementation cannot be something that we postulate after the curriculum is finished, it happens from day one. I believe that getting involved, getting involved and influencing will increase teachers' ownership of the new curriculum, and that will improve the conditions for teachers to translate their curricula into good teaching. It has therefore been very important for the government to facilitate a process involving and enabling all stakeholders to contribute. In order to ensure good involvement in the work on innovation, we have developed a strategy for involvement in the various stages of curriculum development. This is described, inter alia: how teacher organisations and other parties can contribute to different stages of the curriculum process. In line with the strategy, the Ministry has also set up a separate reference group for the renewal where teacher organisations, the Student Organisation, the KS, the Sameting and teacher training are represented. The reference group is involved before key decisions are taken, and the participants make a lot of good input and are good discussion partners for the ministry and the directorate. It is the Directorate of Education that has been commissioned to follow up most of the measures relating to vocational renewal. In the mission, it is particularly important to facilitate the involvement, transparency and information of the process. Right now, important preparatory work is being done for curriculum work. When the directorate last year put down groups of professionals who were going to develop what we call core elements in subjects, teachers, principals and school owners were involved in suggesting who would sit in these groups, while they were invited to make recordings of the work along the way. The Directorate received almost 3,000 recordings, which shows that there are a lot of interested people with a lot of commitment to this work. We have received very good feedback on the open and inclusive process we have completed to now, and I can assure you that we will still have an open and inclusive process. It is crucial for a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e992	I thank you for the answer and am happy for the commitment people show out there. The Directorate-General for Education’s strategy and plan for trade renewal, to which the Council of State referred, underlines the importance of ‘early and broad involvement and participation’ throughout the process, which is geared towards involvement and co-operation. This has been highlighted to ensure the anchoring of those who are actually going to make use of the curricula, the teachers. Professional renewal is a golden opportunity not only to listen to the teachers, but to let teachers directly influence the curricula. But neither the strategy nor the signals from the grassroots in the school indicate that adequate provision is being made for this locally. Then I wonder: How will the Council of State ensure that teachers are given practical opportunities locally to participate actively in the process?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1001	I agree with the importance of the anchoring. If we don't get a good anchoring, it can be very far from a directorate or department in Oslo and to the individual classroom. We need to make sure that teachers are well informed, well informed and able to influence the whole process. We have – and I have – good dialogue with the Education Association in this matter, and we are also clear to school owners, counties and municipalities that they must involve the teachers in this work. So I feel that we're on the right track, and we're going to continue with clear signals to school owners that they have to involve them throughout the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1008	The learning plans are definitely among the most important tools of the teachers. The centre party is concerned with just trust-based school management and showing trust to teachers. We are pleased with the reference group and the involvement to ensure this very implementation. My focus is on real local involvement. I simply wonder how the government is clear to municipalities and counties, whether they should have been more clearly involved in organising the recordings of the teachers, from the schools and from the various school owners around.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1013	Just as we trust teachers, we also need to trust municipalities and counties, and I assume that municipalities and counties like school owners involve the teachers. We are clear about it, I am clear about it to municipalities and counties, and I also hope to be assisted by the Centre Party, as a rapporteur party – that the Centre Party also contributes to the local involvement of teachers in this work. Then I hope that we actually succeed in this work, both with the involvement, and also that we get to curricula where there is room for more depth learning. That means we can't put everything we think is nice into the curriculum. We, as politicians and those who are now developing the curriculum, must also be able to say no and ensure that we now have a future-oriented curriculum that allows the teacher to be a teacher and to contribute to good in-depth learning in the individual subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1023	‘Following a look in the local press, the Minister of Transport’s party traps in Akershus considers that a new impact assessment of the need for a third runway at Oslo Airport Gardermoen and that the previous facts are incorrect. The Progress Party rapporteur in Ullensaker states that he does not want a new third runway. What does the Council of State think about a new third runway, what is the process now further, and will it be relevant to present the matter for a new treatment in the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1030	That government thinks about the runway, we've communicated to Stortinget through propositions. It is a matter in which we believe we should facilitate further aviation activities in Norway. We want to do this through good framework conditions for airlines and good ground infrastructure. A third runway at the Gardermoen may be necessary to ensure good traffic management from all airports around Norway. Some airports in the world can distribute traffic very evenly because they are largely a transit aerodrome for international flights, such as Heathrow, while Gardermoen also has a large number of national functions that it has many flights from small district airports and from the major regional airports. When everyone has the goal of being able to travel to and from Oslo to attend meetings during the day, it means that there are quite a number of planes that want to land approx. at the same time in the morning and take it off again approx. at the same time in the afternoon. That's the need that Avinor tries to cover, and that makes a third runway work. The speed at which this happens depends on traffic development and technology development. But an estimate from Avinor's side that 2030 is an approx. the time when this may become a reality. Building a third runway, of course it will have consequences for the local environment where the aerodrome is. Some houses could be hit by aircraft noise, some houses would have to be demolished in the construction process, etc. It is important that one has good processes on the part of Avinor in this work, so that local democracy gets an understanding of the extent of intervention, who one should already start working with, but also who should not really have to worry about. It is quite natural that my party trap, which is the rapporteur in Ullensaker, takes care of the wishes and concerns of local democracy and has communicated it to me. I'm taking it very seriously. It is important that we can give the best possible answer, but there are also some things we do not yet have good answers to. For example, in the case of noise, investigations have been carried out before, but SINTEF is now in the process of a new investigation that will better identify the noise problem that may arise on a third runway. Then we will also be able to take a discussion with Ullensaker municipality and others about the consequences of the report. And then it's also important that we make a distinction between what a meter is. In its reports, the municipality of Ullensak has concentrated largely on all those who want noise challenges in 2030. The important thing is to be able to distinguish the noise growth that could result from increased traffic on today's two runways up to what may be the noise from a third runway. Then the difference will be much smaller. I am concerned that we take local authorities seriously. It is Avinor who will continue to work with the airport plan itself, but yet Ullensaker municipality is working with the regulation plan. In this way, both have a strong chance of getting involved in the matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1047	The arguments and background for a possible need for a third runway are basically known as Stortinget. And if I'm not mistaken, I guess it was in the discussion of the so-called Avinor message last spring that a large majority in the Stortinget joined the government's suggestion that it would be set off by areas to a third runway if that need were to be notified. The decision to build a third runway itself would be one coming back to later. That is not really what my question is about today. This is a clearly large-scale discussion at local level, in the area around Gardermoen – and that is understandable – but also an obvious big discussion in the Minister of Transport’s party. My question concerns – I interpret his first answer as not agreeing with Akershu’s Progress Party – whether or not it will now be carried out ‘a full and unhindered impact assessment of the need for new runway at OSL’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1056	We have given the signals that the government will give to Stortinget and have experienced that we have joined them. That one has different views locally, I think one will also find internally in the Labour Party and so on. So here there are no party political sides. This is about a geographical interest issue. It is then natural that the rapporteur should respect the interests of his citizens. I don't think that's dramatic. I think we would also experience it in similar matters if it was the Workers' Party that put with a Ministerial post. I just want to remind you that the authority to adopt the necessary plans is with the municipality of Ullensaker. They can do that job in cooperation with neighbouring municipalities and county councils. The authority to grant a concession lies with the Ministry of Transport. But it is quite natural that we involve Stortinget and inform Stortinget about what is happening in Avinor, since it is a state-owned enterprise, but the decision itself must not be made in Stortinget – based on where the authority is. This can be done in the Ministry of Transport – only to answer the last point of the original question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1063	In Rome's Blade on 6 February, it is referred to from the annual meeting in Akershus Prämskritsparti. And there are two local Progress Party representatives quoted as saying clearly that they believe the previous facts are wrong. Now I have twice asked the question whether Akershus Progress Party will have an impact assessment of the need for a new runway at Oslo Airport. So now I ask the question one more time: is the process now going as it has been foreseen by Avinor, or will there be a new impact assessment of the need for a new third runway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1068	I think I answered that already in the first round, so it's a little weird to get the question twice more. But I can repeat myself: we are now conducting an investigation of the noise situation – Sintef is doing it. Based on this, a look at what action needs to be taken. But we're not going to assume that we're going to start a whole new impact assessment. But it is all the more important that Avinor look at what is needed, and move on with any construction plans, which can be adopted through regulatory plans and through decisions on the board. It's the ministry that's going to grant concessions. It would be a little interesting in this situation if the Workers' Party gave its opinion here. It works out this question right here as if it's not interesting to try to figure out what's the best solution. What does the Workers' Party mean? What will the Workers' Party fight for in this matter? The question is only what happens when there is disagreement between two different Progress Party representatives who care for different interests — one of the interests of local democracy, the other of the national interests as aerodrome owners. I therefore register that the representative Myrli has not yet said what the Workers' Party believes. It's a little typical of this kind of debate, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1080	‘In an interview with Moss Avis on 20 January, the Council of State goes a long way in saying that he is open to other solutions for Route 19 through Moss. Can the Council of State confirm that there is an opening to build a tunnel towards the E6 via Årvoll without going into the path of a new draft selection investigation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1087	This is going to be a little bit of repetition from a line change between the undersigned and the representative Odnes, sitting in the hall, on exactly the same theme. I am committed to finding good solutions to the transport challenges in Moss. There are enormously good opportunities to develop Moss further as a good hub that can be both exciting for people living there and for business. That's what I want to contribute to and facilitate. Both investments in R & D. 19 through better ferry services over the fjord and what is happening on the railway is all positive. At the same time, there's no doubt that when you're going to build very much in a short time, you have to make sure that the projects are well coordinated, that you avoid digging up the same area many times, and that a person gets the land laid out so that it's nice to live in the city afterwards. The challenges you have experienced on Rv. 19 e.g., there was a thought one once could build a tunnel, which would solve many challenges at an affordable price, now one sees that the basic conditions in the mountain are so bad that one has to basically dig up the entire area. It means a pile of buildings, both dwellings and commercial buildings, that have to be removed. Then one has to build a coal host, and then one has to fill it up again. We don't think that's desirable for Moss, and it'll also cost more than twice as much as you've thought before. We've signaled to Vegvesenet and to Bane Nor that here we need to continue a good cooperation between all the parties, so one hand doesn't know what the other hand is doing within state infrastructure management. It is important that the Road Service looks at what kind of alternative options are now available within the concept selection investigation that has been made, and then it is important that the Road Service also looks so much that they see that if there are better solutions, or believe that there are better solutions outside the framework that we have agreed on so far through the National Transport Plan and so on, they are warmly welcome to me to discuss it. It is well possible that we will then have to make new decisions against Stortinget, or at least orientate the Stortinget. It's well possible that we have to do processes a little bit more from scratch. I hope it gets the least possible, but when the world changes so much through new information, we have to make sure that we give ourselves room for action to find the best possible solution to the new information. I am concerned that now the Road Service will do such a job in the future. I have told the road manager that I would like to come down to Moss with Vegvesenet and Bane Nor to meet local authorities and travel and look at different things to see if the road can go further now within the mandates and frameworks that you have received, or whether we actually need to re-open the matter appropriately with the Stortinget. The easier, the better, I think, but at the same time we're going to make sure that things are formally right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1100	I thank the Council of State for a positive response, and I will pass on his wish to come to Moss. I assume that it is completely unproblematic and very desirable. It's urgent to find solutions for rv. 19 and when the Road Service is in doubt because the proposed 3 km solution would cost 5 billion. kr, it is very important with good and strong management signals from the department. This is, after all, Norway’s most busy ferry service, and it is moving towards an annual traffic of about 30,000 on that route, so this is not something to wait for. In particular, it is important, now that we are building up the railway, to clarify where the road is going, because if there is a crossing point between rail and road, it must be planned at the same time. So if the government can confirm again that this is urgent, that he means that it's urgent, and that you don't have to go through a new draft investigation, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1105	I'd like to avoid the so-called KVUs, because even though they can give us very useful information, they're also best suited when there's a very wide picture one should draw, where there are many different possibilities, and there's a lot of complication factors. Now there are so many complicating factors in what is happening in Moss, but the scope is not so great that I think a new KVU is necessarily needed. But that's just something we have to see after we've taken the rounds both with our trades unions and with the local authorities. If we can agree without a call for a new investigation, I will be very happy for it. Recently I spent a few days on Jeløia, and I used some of the breaks to ride around and look at Jeløia, but also Moss. There is no doubt that there are challenges in traffic that need to be solved there, and then there are also quite obviously some things that you want to attend to. Much of the traffic on rv. 19 comes from Jeløya. Ferja is a complication factor, so we have to get both of the elements that have to be solved in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1112	I am very pleased that the Council of State has spent time both on Jeløya and Moss, and it is very important that the government and the Council of State focus particularly on Norway's most busy ferry service. I think it's hip-hop as if the traffic challenge is due to the local population or ferry, the point is that you have big traffic challenges that the state has to deal with. So it sounds very good from the council that he does not want a new draft investigation, that he sees that this is urgent, and that he will come to Moss.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1117	I can confirm the opinion that was communicated here, and then I think we can look forward to meeting in Moss as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1125	«In Oppland Arbeiderblad 6 February we can read that Tor André Johnsen in the Progress Party of my Route 4 can be built without being a priority in the National Transport Plan, and one can get the impression that a person no longer needs to prioritize money to build roads, as long as New Roads have the mission. Does the State Council share Johnsen's view that the project can be quickly realised if New Roader is given responsibility, even if the project is not prioritised, and in case we can expect to start up?'
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1132	The government is highly committed to the construction of a new road and not least to the maintenance of a new road. Today, the Road Administration and the Road Directorate have presented the action programme for the next few years, where more than fifty new road projects are to be implemented. We're going to spend about 135 billion. kr to build a new road, both large and small, and also to spend a great deal of money on maintenance of the existing road, in order to reduce the maturity. Although there is more money than ever before, it is important that a priority be given to the order — and that a priority be given to keeping costs down. Riksveg 4 is not currently part of the national transport plan to the extent mentioned by the representative Johnsen in the media. That's what he pointed out after I talked to him to explain what he said, and what he didn't say. What he has pointed out is that New Weger has shown that it is possible to bring costs down, and that it is possible to implement projects to an extent that makes a sheep more rational. What he's been thinking about is that if New Roads take over more of the projects that have long distances, he thinks it's possible to bring down the costs so much that in a time period that's ahead of us, we'll be able to carry out more projects than expected. That also means that he sees an opportunity to rv. 4 will be able to enter future transport plans faster than choosing today's approach to road construction. I am very pleased that the representative Johnsen has that attitude towards reforms in the road sector. We work to get costs down. Among other things, we have Working with E6 in Gudbrandsdalen, E16 to Kongsvinger – to take two other roads in the slightly larger region – where new calculations through smarter construction and smarter planning will show that one could bring costs down to between 1 billion. kr and 2 br. kr per project. That's a lot of money. And that's where the representative Johnsen has been a little bit more visionary and seen what more one can get, which makes that rv. 4 may be brought closer to present-day priorities. In it, of course, it's not free to build, it's not that one should prioritize it, but the idea of the representative Johnsen is that if we do even more of the government's policy, we'll be able to get even more road projects carried out faster than the underlying ones. It's been the discussion he's been trying to travel in the local media. Then I am very happy that, through written and oral questions from both the Workers' Party and the Center Party this week, I have been invited to see if New Roads can take over more projects. After all, we have come a long way in this debate, compared to the debate we had in 2015, when the same parties were very critical of the creation of New Roads, and felt it was not possible to get the benefits we are now seeing. I am pleased that we have now moved on to see that the win is possible. Now it's about realizing as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1141	I note that, as of today, the Council of State does not have any plans for this to be incorporated into the New Veier AS portfolio, but on the same line as both the Council of State and the representative Johnsen, I am busy with faster progress and more ways of making the distinction, and there is something the Centre Party also believes is the right way to go. What's special about the distance we're talking about here is Mjøsbrua, where there's a high daily traffic, on an estimated 11,000 cars a day, and few bypass options when accidents happen – and unfortunately, there's a little too often serious accidents here. I have seen in the action programme presented today by the State Road Administration, that there are 7 million added. kr to road safety measures on this particular route this year. What kind of road safety measures does the Council of State see separately can both reduce the number of accidents and ensure the emergence of this important inland road route?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1148	I'm happy to get support from the Center Party to get more for the money, and I also think the representative Oddnes really does. At the same time, I find that during the years I have been a Minister for Transport, the Senter Party has largely voted against all the reforms I have proposed to get more money back. When we created New Veier, the representative Pollestad from the Central Party claimed that these grips would put Norwegian road construction back decades in time. It was said in Dagsnytt eighteen on the NRK and can be found online. I find that the analysis of the Central Party has been completely wrong, and that the instruments we have used have been quite correct, and therefore I think that anyone who wants to go more quickly, better and cheaper should look at the reforms of today's government, and not the solutions that the Central Party had, which were going to reverse the reforms. I am concerned that we should implement good road safety measures. We have had good results in reducing the number of road fatalities, but we are far from achieving targets. However, I think it is good that the professional assessments in the Road Service decide which measures are most appropriate for the different routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1157	I note that the Council of State is more busy with what has been done in the past than with what is at stake here, on the same line as Stor-Oslo Nord, a project that is a community work with the municipality and county municipality, along the route from Oslo to Mjøsbrua to ensure faster progress in this important transport year, from Oslo and all the way up to Mjøsbrua. Now we're going to build a new Inland state, which needs good internal transport corridors, and these roads are national roads and connect Norway as a whole. We have a lot of transit traffic on these roads. What is currently busy locally is the progress of the project. A KVU has been developed, it's a KS1 report that we're still waiting for, and delays have been explained that one should look at other options. But what options do you now consider? And when can you expect the KS1 report?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1164	So, as Mr Odnes refers to, we have made a decision to conduct a so-called concept selection investigation on RV. 4 and the railway in the area. It shows that we also have ambitions to correct the distances there. It is important to ensure better living and working regions in order to strengthen business, etc. Then we can't afford to fix everything at once, and that's why it's important to give priority, even though we have more priority in all regions of Norway than we've done in the past. It is currently premature to say when the various decisions for Rv. 4 and KS1 are done, but it's pretty close to here, these reports, after what I'm informed about. At the same time, I just want to remind you that there's a lot going on in the interior that we're going to be very happy about – the expansion that's now taking place at E6 is a much bigger implementation than what's been planned. Now over four miles with a new four-mile highway through the region – where the last government set four years without being able to fully agree on how to get through Åkersvika, and which we are now building, all the way to Moelv.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1182	I have said both in meeting with the trade union and in Stortinget that when we implement a railway reform, it is to ensure a better offer for the travellers. This is to make the railway more relevant, in order to increase the number of passengers significantly and to ensure that those who work in the railway have a good and safe job – that we make the change processes the best possible way. I find that over the past six months, we've got a pension agreement in the NSB that the unions have supported, we've got a pension agreement in the Mantena, and then one here addresses a problem with those who are in the NSB Traffic Service, i.e. a part-private company with which the NSB is a partner together with the ISS, and which has different framework conditions. It is not natural for a State Council to address the pension situation of an individual. But we've looked at the general conditions. An NSB employee who in 1974 was 18 years old, as shown in the question here, must have been born in 1956. This person will then retain his SPK membership and maintain the special age limit. In the event of a transfer of business, closed scheme employees will be allowed to continue their SPK membership and the special age limit. He also retains the possibility to dispose of public AFP. I understand that older employees in the NSB may be concerned about their pension, but the employee mentioned in the question, after all the information we have received, will not lose their earned rights. Should I be able to say more than this, I need to know more – so that we can see if there are errors in our assumptions. In it is that the concern communicated here is solved as the system has been and based on the information we have received. However, let me repeat and remind you that we have been concerned that we should get good pension agreements that ensure that earned rights are respected. I note that in an unconsented vote, the Railway Union, or the trade union movement, has supported the pension agreement that has been concluded for the NSB system, which is the largest and includes the most people. It shows that we have taken this issue seriously. The management of the NSB and the management of the Mantena have done a good job and have worked well with the trade unions. I'm very happy that we get those results. This does not mean that there is no need to do a job for NSB Traffic Service, but it is a company that is part of the NSB, and it is natural that the NSB and ISS – who own the company together – deal with that kind of issue. If at some point they think they need clarifications with the Ministry of Transport as the owner of the NSB, my door is always open. But it's natural for the board to handle things in companies that NSB owns.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1197	Thanks for the answer. What the Council of State answers may be right. But there is a concern that has come to my table, and the concern about this person, I have taken seriously. The reality is that this government’s policy of transfers leads to this kind of insecurity in many – in the increased privatisation and commercialisation tool that this government has. Among other things, we see: That there's a huge increase in bureaucracy, we get 6.6 billion. kr in increased fees, we have increased kindergarten prices, people have to pay more for physiotherapy services, and we have an increased element of temporaryity – in addition to the government having a policy where they want more phase-out of public activities to private. The Council of State has said that the consideration of employees is the most important. Does not the Council of State keep words, and does he not think it applies when transferred to private?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1204	Well, the Council of State keeps up, and as I said now, I answered a question where the representative Henriksen himself obviously has not checked the facts well enough before one makes claims and will try to blackmail the government's policy. I also noticed many of the entries in the outline that came here. In the case of a claim for higher charges: Yes, the Stortinget has adopted higher charges than the government has proposed. But that the Workers' Party mentions it as something negative, is a little strange all the time the Workers' Party has proposed to increase the fees even more in its alternative state budget. It is a little strange if the Workers' Party believes that increased taxes from the government or the majority of the population are problematic, without noticing that they reinforce the problems. As regards the claim of several temporary employees, this was factually checked in the election campaign, and it turned out that in 2017 there were fewer temporary employees than it was when the Workers' Party was running. So even though the possibility of temporarily employing people has changed, it has not led to an increase in its use. It's worth taking into account that fact trumps the myth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1213	This is a blatant example of excuses. We never promised that we would have fewer fees, the Progress Party promised – that is point one. And we have a government that has an impressive hit security when it comes to making everyday life more difficult for those in our society who serve little and have least. It is then about this policy that the government in the field by area, including in the transport sector, makes people more insecure by transferring and privatising services. It's not just the transport sector that's affected, we had the exact same thing in Defense, where the cleaning services were privatized. It creates insecurity for employees. That's what I challenge the Council of States. It is clear that the Council of State may have been good at negotiating pensions for employees in its service, but it is business transfer, and there the Council of State has said he takes into account employees. Then I ask again, does the Council of State do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1218	The answer is yes for the third time, I do, and we have shown that. We have obtained pension agreements that the employee organisations have voted in favour of, not against. The whole negative black-painting image that I thought the Workers' Party was at least trying to end after the election campaign, I hear I'm continuing now. The progress party fights for lower charges. I understand here that Kari Henriksen is proud that she is fighting for higher charges, and she certainly has. At least the representative Henriksen should have been very satisfied, and she should have been a little dissatisfied that she would not have to increase them even more. But I'm proud that we work for people to keep a little bit more in their wallets, instead of the state taking a little bit more all the way. We've also been concerned that we're going to make better use of the private contractor market. Very familiar was not the Workers' Party against it when they crashed, it was also private train company in Norway when the Workers' Party crashed. It is suddenly very cruel when this exists under the Progress Party, while it was completely natural under the Workers Party. I think the voters are revealing the kind of nonsense rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1227	The President recalls that additional questions should relate to the first question. It started with retirement, but evolved in a slightly more general direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1236	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration the following questions: ‘In the last year, there has been an increase in the number of serious incidents in the nightlife environments in Oslo, with shooting, stabbing and gross violence. Until 2016, the police had a separate unit of police specialists who could concentrate on working long-term for several years to detect backers and repeat structures and avert and prevent serious incidents. Only in the last few years before 2016 did this police effort lead to the interception of 19 killing attempts and other large estimates in the re-growth. Will the Council of State ensure that its own police resources are once again set aside that can fully concentrate on being close to the gangs in order to take backers and avert serious incidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1245	Initially, I would like to take the opportunity to say that I share the commitment of the representative Jan Bøhler to combat the criminal gang environments in Oslo. Such crime represents a serious threat and creates insecurity and fear. Serious, profit-based crime and serious integrity-enhancing crime have been given priority through the letters of assignment to the Police Directorate and the higher prosecution authority. The Advocate General has underlined these priorities in his Roundtable of objectives and priorities. I am ready for priority action to be taken against the criminal communities. Those who commit this form of serious crime must be taken. At the same time, we must prevent the environment from recruiting new members. We need a broad approach through good intelligence, targeted prevention and quality in research and guidance. The management and foreign management track must be used where appropriate. My clear expectation is that the fight against serious crime will need to be strengthened by the reform of the police. The new organisation of districts shall facilitate this. Furthermore, it is important to highlight the objectives of the reform to increase the quality of fields such as investigation, prevention and intelligence. The reform shall improve the quality of the services provided by the police and thus improve the outcome of police action. It is important to remember that this is at the heart of the reorganisation of police districts. The establishment of larger units and the professional environment will strengthen efforts, and it will therefore be wrong if the efforts made in this area are now weakened as a result of the reform. At the same time, we must recognise that Oslo has specific challenges to address. Therefore, specific efforts have been initiated in some vulnerable areas, which are in addition to what is done in the ordinary context. The 2017 budget provided 17 million. D to a specific crime-preventing and integration-promoting effort in Greenland, which has been continued in the budget for this year. The 2018 budget provides 30 million. kr to a reinforced police effort in the south of Oslo, with particular emphasis on prevention and on preventing recruitment to a criminal environment. The police, in meeting with me, have particularly highlighted the need for an effort in this area. I therefore believe that we are now helping to strengthen the overall effort against these environments. This is an area where, as the Council of State, I will be impatient in the future. We cannot accept that crime is spreading in some parts of the city. It shall be safe to live and grow up in all parts of Oslo. At the same time, it is important to say that this is a job that the police cannot do alone. That's why it's important that we get a good cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, and I feel that you have. Of course, many of my colleagues should also be involved in that effort, because the police cannot solve this alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1258	I thank the Council of State for the answer and commitment. What I'm afraid it's very easy to say quickly, and which was also expressed at the people's meeting at Holmlia yesterday, is that there's no quick fix here. Then you go on to discuss things that are important, for example. integration, Norwegian schools, good kindergartens, leisure clubs, etc. that everyone can agree on, – which is important, I want to underline it. But the most important prevention in these environments now is actually to show that society is able to stop the main characters in the gangs, take the replicas and stop the business they're doing, as they show and that for some young unfortunately they're role models and in that way can easily recruit as many young people as they want, which are then taken by the police because they're doing things on the street. My question to the Council of State is: Does she agree that we need police specialists now who can concentrate completely – for a long time – on taking these backers and rolling up these environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1267	Yes, I agree, and I realized that that was what the Oslo police were also very clear yesterday at the meeting, that they want to have a presence out there, that they want to work to take these backers, if you want, those who are role models in this environment, those who recruit young people, those who are already hard-boiled criminals and on whom the prevention trail does not help. It is one of the priority areas, as well as prevention, which takes place by the fact that policemen are out in schools and out in the environment to safeguard their youth. So to the question of how to organise this: Someone has called for a separate police unit, but I think it's a derailment, just because what we need now is policemen to do the job out there on the ground – not increasing expenses for rent. I was therefore very happy to hear from the police chief, who talked about having a mobile device out there – a mobile home – that people can get into, and where to bring information to the police. We depend on cooperating with the local population.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1274	I thank you for the additional reply as well. What is important to understand in this situation is that prevention is now primarily to get the main characters involved and to show that crime does not pay off, so that they cannot go around in the same way and do as they like. They recruit, and there is almost some sort of status – for some young people – associated with working and selling for them. Also, being taken by the police gives status, and they then move up into the regachierarchy. I don't mean to just focus on investigating events that have happened. In the police reform, there is a lot of emphasis on investigation, but in the case of abduction, we need specialists who only work with these environments, 24 hours a day, to be able to do it. You have to stress them and make sure they can't run around with guns. It's a difficult task. Forty people were used for it for five years in the rendition project. I'm not saying you're going back to exactly that kind of organization, but the Council of State is going to spend some of the $30 million. and ensure that the funds are used in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1283	I realized that what the police said yesterday at that meeting went in that direction, that we have to work to take out these criminals, we have to work with intelligence, we have to get information from the local people out there about what's going on. We have to work to avert these kinds of events. As they said, this is settlement in the numbers. It's unlikely that passersby will be hit by it, but it can happen, you've seen it before. That's why this is very important. At the same time, it is important to think about prevention, because we know that there are major challenges in many schools in Oslo where we see young people who do not respect the police, who are developing a criminal racetrack, for which we are concerned, and who are destroying the educational environment for all. The fact that the police are more there to support teachers, the principal and the students who actually want to get an education, I think is an important work, as well as taking the hard-boiled criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1299	This question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1313	This question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1321	‘Some clothes chains have few or no large-size clothes. For example, the largest clothing in the range is XL, even if these plagues in other shops would have a smaller size. People who get dressed at a size they usually use may therefore feel that the garment is too small. From a public health point of view, young people in particular should be able to relate to comprehensible labelling that does not appear to be depressing. Will the Council of State take the initiative to hold a meeting with the clothing industry to discuss measures relating to the size marking of clothing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1328	Initially, I would like to say that I share the representative's commitment in this area, especially on the public health issue, for which I am responsible. This question is closely related to body pressure, advertising and the requirement to be slim and well trained. A large proportion of the population are obese, and that means that many people need larger clothes, which for some people can experience stigmatizing. It also makes it extra important to label the clothes so that the size matches the marking. However, there is no legislation that regulates the size of clothing, but in the autumn of 2017, a common European standard for size calculation was introduced to make it easier to trade clothes of the right size. The standard describes a new and more educational way of marking dress sizes. The new system is described as better both for consumers and for distributors, as the standard is expected to contribute to fewer unsold clothes and returns. Therefore, the clothing industry is encouraged to make use of the new standard in place. The focus on body, weight and clothing can lead to mental distress, and the government is committed to promoting good mental health. That is why in 2017 we launched the government's strategy in this area. One of the main objectives of the strategy is to promote the mental health of children and young people, which in turn forms the basis for the work on a new escalation plan to be presented by the end of this year. Questions about body pressure and advertising are also mentioned in the youth health strategy. The communication work on good living habits, such as physical activity and diet, places emphasis on well-being, and focuses on the joy and mastery aspect of being in motion, as well as on having good food and meal habits, which can create security, and not least awareness, and make children and young people more critical to pressures from the environment, through, among other things. social media. And that's a theme that's up in public space today. The Dine30 campaign aims to be a counterweight to body pressure and strict exercise regimens. The threshold for what's good enough has to be lowered. But also the responsibility of parents by being good role models here is important, and parents in particular must help to strengthen children and young people's self-confidence, so that they can say no when the pressure comes. I see that it may be a problem for many to shop clothes. I would therefore, in cooperation with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, consider in the form of letters to encourage the clothing industry to use the common European standard and to harmonise the denomination of the respective sizes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1345	I thank the State Council for a good answer and not least a very positive conclusion to the answer by referring to her wanting to write a letter to the industry. That's what I thought was very positive. I would also like to think to the right if the Council of State thought it might be in place with a meeting, because this is about leadership, yes, but it's also about raising awareness of the subject. And as the council itself was involved, it's also about body pressure and problems around depression among young people. It's also important to remember here. Then it is important that the industry – as quickly as possible – realizes that there is something they can do on their own, because it is quite possible to do something about it. It's about the uniform marking of clothes, so that people know – in a contract between themselves and the store – what they actually bring into the pulpit. So it's about understandable labelling. I'd like to hear more from the government if it's possible to have a meeting just to make the industry even more aware.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1350	I think the first important thing is to send out signals now in the form of letters, together with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, which refers to European standards. Companies producing clothing in Norway or producing it on behalf of a Norwegian company should be aware of the responsibilities they have in relation to the right size marking. But I have to be very careful so I don't venture into the business minister's area, there's a limit here. The perspective for me is public health, and there's just that challenge with pressure, this with building self-confidence so that our children and young people can actually bear this pressure and stand firm and say: you know what, I'm happy in the body I have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1357	Yes, there's a lot of positive here. What was also a dimension behind me asking this question was that there was initially a 16-year-old – very writing and speaking – from Ålesund who took this up, after an experience in the sample room. And that commandment was that it's not okay that the biggest sizes aren't big enough for an average youth. So on the one hand, it's about the marking, the way it's actually marked, but it's also about the fact that some shops, by branding clothes a little differently in practice, avoid having the biggest clothes because they might want a special group of users, maybe the thinnest kids. There is also a problem that I think is very serious, in which case, if there is a signal that those who are over a certain size are not good enough for this type of dress. I'd like to hear what the council thinks about that problem, because it's about the marking, but it's also a little bit about what kind of models one takes into the shops, and they're not big enough for those who are the biggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1364	I share the exposure to this area, for everyone who is parent, knows what pressure is out there. Both boys and girls are under pressure from this, what an ‘ideal youth’ should be. But again, I think I'll start with this. In the design of the letter we will be able to mention just a little bit of this as the representative Klinge mentions, so that one sees that it is not only the marking, but that one actually also has the opportunity to have different offers of clothing, which shows width, in a very common clothing store, and that one does not have single shops that only bet on the segment where one should be thin and trained. It's important. I've already looked at, in the sports industry and sportswear, that these hip marks should not only be for them very, very thin, but that everyone should be able to get them. So I'm working on this, but in a public health perspective, which is once again linked to the pressure on young people and children – and also adults – when it comes to delivering the right body at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1376	I would like to begin by congratulating the fresh councillor from Rogaland. It is always good with more Viking supporters in government. It was very fun working together as colleagues in Stortinget – I think this too can be fun. ‘Previously, Iselin Nybø had, as I did, equal treatment of universities as one of its main issues of combat. In Stavanger Aftenblad’ – after her appointment as State Council – ‘19. January reminds people that she is a minister for the whole country and cannot discriminate against the University of Stavanger and the new universities. The funding system is a national matter in every way. Can the Council of State then decide whether what she herself has called ‘the equal treatment of the universities in the financing model’ is a matter of priority for this government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1385	Let me start by thanking you for the congratulations and telling me the heart's agreement with the representative that the more Viking supporters, the better it is. As you know, universities and colleges receive a large proportion of their funds as a single framework allocation. The framework allocation consists of a basic part and a performance-based part. The funding system is common to all universities and colleges, with some exceptions for some artistic institutions and private colleges. It also applies to the performance-based part of the system. The incentives are the same for all institutions, whether small or large, new or old. When the funding system was changed in 2017, the basic part was a central theme. The budget for 2016 set out the basic resources. The institution's basis is a result of the Storting's long-term priorities. The basis can be explained by several different factors that vary between institutions, such as: geographical location, number of study places, profile, size, number of recruitment posts, location of research institutions, etc. Some institutions also have many cost-intensive training courses, such as: medicine and odontology, as well as small and vulnerable subjects for which they have a national responsibility to care. The change in the system stressed that there should be one system, common to all. We have performance-based indicators that are justified on the grounds of stimulating all institutions to high quality and efficient use of resources. Increased implementation, more cooperation with working and social life and more internationalisation were key objectives of changing the system. The sector has had a good real growth, and that growth has benefited the entire sector. In recent years, new universities and higher education institutions have had a significant growth on the basis, and they have done well in the results-based census. For example, the University of Agder and the University of Stavanger have the clearly highest percentage increase in appropriations from 2013 until today. It is a deliberate policy resulting from, among other things, creation of new study places, new recruitment positions and other bets as well as good results with a similar disbursement in the incentive part of the funding system. I would like to add that as a major representative of the Church, Education and Research Committee, I was engaged in pursuing such a deliberate policy – by increasing, for example, the number of people involved. the number of places of study and scholarships could help to correct some of what has been described as a historical bias. It was something that was reflected in the budgetary comparisons in the previous period. I believe it was a right and an important priority, and I am in favour of that priority also as a Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1400	I must thank you for the answer, although I must admit that I now liked the answers from the big business representative Nybø better. My starting point is what the Council of State means – and so also what the government thinks – in these matters. It sounds like – from the answer I was given now – that you are quite satisfied with the system that is, that the job has been done in a way, and that it is really not more to do with what is described. Nybø – and actually Left – has used rather harsh words to describe just this funding system, which now seems to be a pleasure. One has called it unfair, a completely biased distribution between the new universities and the old ones, and has clarified that one needs to increase the allocation of the new universities to make up for the differences. And again, it wasn't just Nybø, but the left group, in opposition, that was critical. That's why it's a little strange that the Left in Government now might think everything is great, and that the job is done. My question is: what words will the Council of State now use to describe the funding system? Is there at all the bias that a formerly mentioned, now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1409	I have been very clear when I became the Council of State, that there will be no rematch. This discussion was taken over the previous period. I don't remember the Workers' Party being so busy with the new universities then. Let me give you an example: When the Left and Christian People's Party was given an ear-marked grant to the new universities, the Workers' Party – and the Centre – wrote in a note: ‘However, the members of the Committee from the Workers’ Party and the Centre will express some concern that the allocation of recruitment positions to some selected institutions in the budgetary conciliation process is taking too little overall into account in line with the leadership of the Stortinget in Notifying. St. 18 Research Communication and Long-term Plan for Research and Higher Education [[2014-2015]] [[2012-2013]] I am concerned that this sector must have predictability. That doesn't mean we're not going to make any changes to the funding system. But this became an agreement in the previous period, and it still stands in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1419	I record that someone now says that the discussion about the funding system is a closed chapter. I think that's an answer that the new universities will be disappointed at. I also record that you have little to come with when a user uses the entire answer not to answer the question in the questionnaire, but rather reads out the Workers' Party's comments. The Labour Party would like to be involved and contribute to a better policy for this government. I want to drill a little deeper into what the government that shares really thinks about this, for one thing is whether this had been a matter where the left stood entirely alone. This is something that representatives from the Right – even Vice-Chairman of the Right and State Council, Bent Höie – have also expressed themselves strongly about. So again the question is, is this at all a matter that the government is going to look at further? Or is it a closed chapter because this is something you have treated before, and not at all has the ambition that the new government should look at and do something about – that in the next four years everything will be just like it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1426	Let me be clear, as I have been ever since I became the Council of State: there will be no rematch on the funding system. This does not mean that there can be no adjustments, it does not mean that there is no need to see whether there are some things to change, but the main device is fixed. I can see that the majority on Stortinget also believes that. And once again – to quote the Workers' Party: The Group leader of the Education Committee said last autumn that «Ap will not accept reductions in funding to the University of Tromsø – the Nordic University of Norway». This government is committed to predictability in the financing of the UH sector. There may be some adjustments, but the main structure is fixed. I want to be clear about that. So that doesn't mean we're not going to work for this sector. We're going to work for all the universities and all the colleges, and it's a great potential – both for the new and for the old – to get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1433	Case No. 2 – Ordinary Question Time – this concludes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-14.ana.ud8e1447	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
