ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106386	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the club, I am looking for a 10 minute break so that he can address the public about the defence protest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106387	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106388	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. We're all following this drama around the Church of St. Marka, this news just before the tourist season, is now spinning on all tourist stations across Europe. I think we need to talk, and Parliament is the right place to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106389	Thank you very much. No more? Hope Turina-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106390	On behalf of the HNS Club on the same topic as the defense protest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106391	Nejad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106392	For the same reason on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106393	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Salapic. ... Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I watched you, for at least 20 seconds, I expected you not to raise your hand. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106394	Mr. President, here's to the events in St. John's Square. Mark. Mr. Shuker raised the truth before his hands...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106395	Okay. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106396	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, once in a time of non-democracy in this country, the prime minister's arrival in the Croatian Parliament was requested. Given that this cannot happen in this democratic time, as the prime minister will not even report to the president of the state, I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, am asking for a 10-minute break in order to plead over the defence protests.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106397	Okay, sure. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106398	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I am looking for a break to express our position on the protest of the event in Mark's square.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106399	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Igor Dragovan. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No more hands in the air, no more... there is. Dragan the Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106400	For the same reason, the SDSS Club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106401	Ten club representatives asked for a break for 10 minutes. We'll take a break by 9.45. We're continuing with a statement by the representatives' clubs. Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs, it is time for a break in the search for representatives' clubs. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The topic is to look for representatives' clubs as a matter of defence protest here at Mark's square. Please, I believe in you esteemed colleagues and respected fellow MPs that you have increased responsibility for the public word. Thank you very much. I ask the respected representative, Branko Vuksic, to present his position on behalf of the club. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106403	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In Croatia, for sure, there are war heroes and there are peacetime heroes, people who protested yesterday for sure that war heroes are many of them. There are some peacetime heroes. Peace-doping heroes are the ones who make ends meet, the ones who are out of work, the ones that are not subject to the laws, the laws that apply to the privileged. There are those who respect the laws and there are those who trample the laws, trample them consciously by provoking the entire people. There are those who are privileged and those who trample unprivileged. There are those above the law, there are those who feel perfectly normal that they are above the law. Mr. Glogoski once told the President of the Croatian Parliament to rise above the law which, fortunately, the President of the Parliament did not, because I think he too feels that he must not be above the law, but is here to defend the laws. A part of the defenders came yesterday as some parliamentary representatives came to support the workers of the Immunological Institute. The workers of the Immunological Institute left the square at a time when they were supposed to leave the square, because they had a certain hour in which to protest. The defenders stayed in the square without asking permission without announcing a protest. They did it, so without permission, they did it to provoke exactly what happened yesterday. Several times I heard in a direct transmission of reporters as they said this wasn't a harmless situation and it seems to me, because I've been to protests and anti-protests that people want to cause crisis situations, they've done it before, they've done it today. I was on one of Dubravko Merlic's shows with Mr. Clem. When the cameras went out, the last question Dubravko Merlic was whether the protest would go out if HDZ came to power. My answer was yes, Mr. Clem won't. When the cameras went out, I said of course they would, they'll shut down immediately. Yeah, and that's what he said in front of the witnesses. Yeah, in front of witnesses. ... Please don't, I'm not going on the SDP list, I'm not who you are. [[You can't hear it.]] Even though you've been in power for 18 years, I'm not afraid of your Karamark, or the autocracy you've spent and the one you'll spend. [[Intruder President: Please!]] Please calm them down and stop the time. Here's the blackmail, the ultimatums are doing it and it wants to be caused. [[The Intruder President: Here is the Honorable Representative.]] The worse the situation, the better. But what happens now? The SDP will, everyone said the lost elections would probably win. It's exactly this kind of crisis situation because you're just warning yourself you see what's going to happen, because it won't happen if HDZ comes to power. But whatever, which people will be behind the government because this is already a battle for positions. What do the defenders want? I have always been in favour of dialogue and I believe that Mr Milanovic should talk to them. But I don't think Mr. Milanovic should agree to a public circus, that cameras should be on fire and that reality show should be held with the Prime Minister. He should call with defenders, a defence delegation to Mark's square, talk to them, later one defender and Prime Minister or spokeswoman should make statements, and that's quite all right. What's happening now is a reckoning, already an announcement of a reckoning with the red devils. I think I'm the redest one here, so I'm the first in line of HDZ black, and that's what your president announced he'll deal with the red devils first. I think what was done yesterday was done knowingly by the fact that I should warn that Mr. Clem was always saying that they wouldn't run away and that they wouldn't go to church. Because where are they going to run? Look at the statements, everything can be Googled. And what did they do in the end? They did exactly what we all saw. I'm asking the defenders, I think they're heroes, yes. do not appear politically, politically and that they too show the will for dialogue. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106404	Dear colleagues and colleagues, once again I kindly ask for democratic dialogue to be heard by those you disagree with. ... And please, if it were different then it wouldn't be a dialogue. [[You can't hear it.]] You know that and we'll hear all of you who'll have very different views on things. I ask you nicely not only do we representatives to hear from each other, but to let the Croatian public hear what they represent. It can't be how I'd say more logically ask for it. Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain on behalf of the club, same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106405	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yesterday in Rovinj, a meeting was held, for example, by tourism ministers. They experienced the divided Croatia firsthand. The whole of Europe has taken pictures from Zagreb. On one side of the Pope, the Croatian Church means here across from the Church of St. Mark surrounded by police cordon. Top news in Europe. It's a great start to the season. Too bad for the image of the country undetectable. But that's less important, it's important that society is divided and that the entire nation has some of these divisions, and only two parties benefit. The prime minister, in my opinion, needs to talk, has to calm down and has to organise the conversation immediately. The prime minister has nothing to promise new than to offer coffee and order gentlemen no right in my term has been reduced, except for the 10% pension amount above 5000 kuna but it has been done in the Jadranka Kosor government as well. For defenders, about six billion kuna, I don't know the budget of 115 billion kuna. Clearly, you should tell Matić not to. The media can write what they want but the most difficult people with disabilities should not be called war profiteers, even if they have 20,000 total incomes. Right, someone's going to say, and how do civilian disabled people survive with I don't know $1,500 or $1,200? Why is the hand of that young man who was lost at Cicaria in '43? less valuable than the hand of the lost '91. Or '93? People across the street need to know that this country is run by a legitimately elected government, a power that can only be replaced by elections, everything else is a coup, everything else is the dispersion of Croatia. A street strike against the government must not be supported, but I will also say excessive use of force. Never in 20 years have there been as many cops in Mark's square as it was yesterday. 20 years, '95. I've been following all the protests and there's never been so many police. '95. They were gone, but since '95. Whatever it was I'm following here. You should have reacted, you know, 225 days ago when the first defenders encamped outside the Ministry of Sava. I don't understand even the officials who say there's little blood missing. Why should blood fall? Neither shall power fall without choice nor blood drop in this country. Mr. Matic orders, I understand the stress, better Kevin's pit than you to be my boss. What does that mean? He doesn't share the country only then one side. If she wins the election this other side then she'll lead the country. I'll do anything to make sure that doesn't happen, but we must respect the will of the citizens. The church doesn't hurt! It must be uninjured, based on the Vatican agreements. Will what we saw here happen now, like 12 or 13 years ago, when the strike officers camped in the church for nearly 600 days? That's more than likely now. There are dangerous statements of certain church prelates, I quote, "We have defended the external border of Croatia, we knew who is shooting, where he shoots and what he shoots. The war is not over, the war is still going on." So what are they saying? We've secured our borders but now we're at war for souls says our nation. This is still happening in Croatia not coordinated politically, not yet. But I guess we're about to start coordinating spontaneous gatherings. Imagine if one of the protesters had thrown himself out of the City Hall or if a bottle had broken down in Sava? Talk to me! Dialogue, not dictatorship. The prime minister must also agree to talk, without ultimatum, without force, with much less vanity. If everyone's ready to talk, the Chief of Government must talk. Here you can see how the hard words up to 22 hours and the dot set the situation on fire. This population that created the state, I mean the most difficult defenders, it is not marginalized, it cannot and will not run the country without a choice, but it is certain that the population should be respected, it needs to be respected, it needs to be discussed, and it needs to be appreciated by their wound, their pain, their suffering, but also Croatian laws must be respected. And I agree with my predecessor this will all stop the first day after the election if there is a change of government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106406	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A respected representative of Nada Turina-Đuric is on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106407	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Many citizens or even most of me would dare say that the citizens of the Republic did not sleep or at least didn't sleep well, did not sleep well, and that is for Croatia which is part of the EU, which boasts of its democratic traditions something terrifying. Croatia was ruled by fear, after many years. Unfortunately, the fear of those people that Croatia is most proud of. Fear of conflict prevailed, and fear of suffering prevailed. All those of us who followed the events in Mark's square yesterday were in terrible fear that someone might be making some wrong move at the wrong time. And not to start what we are all afraid of, and that is a reckoning in Croatia between ourselves. It's something that's not only unacceptable for us at the HNS, because it's an unacceptable word that doesn't show enough what we think about it. What else did people feel? They felt helpless and they still believed her. Helplessness, many called this morning to believe all of you so me and my colleagues from the HNS and asked if they were going to work, if it could go through Zagreb normally, if something would happen to some student, some student who goes to school? Many parents whose children are studying in Zagreb and did not call from Zagreb and ask if their children are safe. What is the third feeling that comes from all this is the anger, anger, and indignation of those whose rights are at stake. And yesterday, the rights of all decent and normal citizens in the Republic of Croatia were compromised and they still are. Unfortunately, dear colleagues cannot be called anything other than the threat of a coup and the violent shift of power. It's the destruction of the institution of the state, it's the force, it's the coming of force, blackmail, terror to power. I'm afraid it can't be called otherwise. What is unfortunate is that one part of our political scene did nothing to calm this situation but unfortunately encouraged it in various situations, and here in the last elections that we had and these were presidential elections. This policy is better, this policy of violent overthrow of institutions at a time when Croatia has hope, and we will hear these news today, and perhaps those news may bother someone that Croatia is coming out of recession, that indicators are better than expected, that the tourist season is also starting to show good results already, much better than last year. What message are we sending, which of the tourists will come to Croatia today, seeing images from Mark's square or yesterday from the Sava road where the protesters were sitting on gas bombs? So I call for the responsibility of the opposition which cannot deny that it did not participate and that it did not support such a protest, I thank the police, I think that we must send a message to the police yesterday very dignifiedly did her job, professionally but also call on all institutions to stick to the rule of law and to prevent what would be a disaster for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106408	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Nedzad Hodzic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106409	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have warned from the National Minority Representatives' Club in this Assembly on several occasions, a few years back to the drastic division of the Croatian society that is happening. And I think she achieves a culmination that crosses a line beyond which great evil can come. So I'm asking you to think about it. This country was defended by all its citizens. Among the defenders in this country are 25 thousand Bosniaks, 10,000 Serb national members, among the dead are a large number of members of national minorities and all those who, as true patriots, responded either to mobilization or volunteered to defend the country. Many of them, like the Bosniaks, because they had previously been one country, gave their lives without ever getting a housewife, used any right in this country because at that time they were citizens of another new country, had not had five years of permanent stay in the Republic, and their sacrifice would be forgiven, and let not all of the 100% wartime disabled who I am full of honor and full support to ensure that their health is taken care of, they are at least equal if not much greater victims of the Homeland War and that they never, nor their children, nor their families have received any satisfaction to give their children citizenship. That these protests in Sava have political connotations is clear. I came from Rijeka today to read "Both have fallen, both will fall" Parole is there for months, is it necessary to translate it in a political sense? I don't think so. In the end, so in front of the Parliament, I was watching the SWAT team just on their way in and I asked if you guys were tired, and then it happened that I was just looking at a man who is Bosniak by nationality, and he told me we weren't Mr. Hodzic, so I was surprised that he recognized me because we just arrived from Rijeka. And then dressing him up and he asked me what I think this is all about? ... What's the River in another country? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He asked me what this is all about? How's this gonna end? I told him a joke I'd tell you too, we Bosnians, we're so many jokes that we have the right to tell jokes about others. So there's a joke that says when God created the world, so from above the sky he was above these areas, then he started to throw pearls out of the bag, and then it came out of his hand, and the pearls fell out of his hand, and the shore came, and the islands, and Plitvice, and all the beauty that this land has. But then he asked for a piece of it back because if he didn't want it to happen to him, he asked the Croats to return half of it to him. And they said don't forgive me, but we're not returning it. Then God answered, if you don't come back, and I'll take half your mind. It's high time we all got to ask ourselves ourselves, I'm telling a joke. Maybe some have been taken a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106410	Comrade Hodzic, let me tell you. I understand jokes, but they must have measures and have to be spoken under appropriate circumstances. Hold on to your politics, if your joke is politics, then I'll give you a heads-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106411	So let me finish, and you'll see that I don't feel at all like a joke like that or a laugh. So it's high time we all asked ourselves to stand in front of the mirror, but just everyone, especially in this House, and to ask ourselves if there's any part of the truth in this joke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106412	Thank you. I will repeat again, democracy is assessed by whether you can hear those you disagree with. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Salapic on behalf of the HDSSB club. I didn't see you. I'm sorry. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106413	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I think that as the President of the Croatian Parliament, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because you have not taken away the right to speak, not just a reminder to the minority representative Mr. Hodzic, who called the Croatian people, a half-witted people. And I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, no matter what political option you belong to, it was ridiculous. It is a tragedy for someone to show that they have no right to speak this way in the Croatian Parliament. Return the tax to the Croatian people then speak...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106414	Hello, colleague Shuker, colleague Shuker, please, we can't all talk because then it's neither speech nor conversation. I understand your sensitivity, but I don't share your position, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I've warned the MP just as I think he should have been warned. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Salapic on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106415	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. My colleagues and fellow MPs. And here today, behind this pay phone that needs to be stopped with honor and to address its people, has shown the division of Croatia, and I think it's also embarrassing. Respecting all is one country, one is Croatia. The country is Croats and Serbs and all national minorities, and we've been through these days long ago. I'm sorry that we're days away for one day when there's emotion whatever you say here today some of us will say these are talking their own, these are their own, and the defenders are out there, the buses from all over the country are on their way, and the situation isn't good, whatever we're thinking here today. Not wanting to offend anyone today, so I will try to rise above what is expected of us and of the HDZB who have supported Croatian defenders from the beginning. I'll tell you the truth, are we supposed to slam the door like a representative club ourselves or the left or the right? Croatia is one and can't be a bird without a left wing and can't be without a right. And the defenders are some among the police today, and those who are in a wheelchair, and have no parts of their bodies, and among you who disagree with us about what we say today. One reason is needed everywhere, understanding those who fought hard times for their country. Yesterday, without shame and shame, we came out among them HDSSB representatives and talked to the Croatian Parliament, and we did nothing wrong with Prime Minister Milanovic, or the country, or any of your personal opinions about what you think about our party's politics, and what you think about the defenders we think and I will repeat here, they have every right to be where they are. Former President of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Josipovic, with his arrival in a tent in Savska 66, gave legitimacy to this protest, incumbent President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic also gave legitimacy to defenders and defence rights, and we gave it as parliamentary representatives. So how can we talk about the illegality of the rally, if two former presidents, the current president and we MPs went there and talked to the defense attorneys? Will anything change if the Prime Minister shows the human and state will to talk? It is the Council that will adopt or reject the Constitutional Law on the rights of Croatian defenders. Parliament, Parliament's most important body of the Croatian state is the one who will decide. All the policies of ours and such, people, people who hate each other and spit just cause a riot. Nothing happened to us yesterday. We talked to the defenders, the police, and they're all normal people, you understand. Everyone has their right in this country to say whatever they want. And it is past time that any citizen of this country should put his head in the sand and fear his people, regardless of whether he is left or right. And the late President Tudjman created this country with his will, as well as some of the left politicians, and the late Racan gave the right to carry out a referendum that was known to lose him. Understanding and conversation is something that is missing in Croatia. I call on you as President of the Parliament as president of all of us and a reasonable man to contact the Prime Minister, and we, too, can be presidents of clubs or representatives of the representatives' clubs free to go out amongst our people and amongst our defenders and nothing will happen to us. Nothing will happen to us in conversation with any of them. Nothing will happen to any of you because they don't hate anyone. From the beginning, we have supported legitimate demands, which is a conversation and debate in the Parliament. The law will be passed by a two-thirds majority if we can bring it, if we can't, but we can't step on it. If someone says today that the police have violated their powers, I personally think they shouldn't have stepped on the church threshold and gone inside, it's unnecessary. But also those who stood there were doing their job. I won't step on anyone, but they've crossed what's their job. You don't have to go to church, leave them alone. And we President of the Parliament to go together alone, we will leave again, or with you, the conversation will only give better because we no longer understand each other. They don't understand us anymore, they don't understand us anymore. And it doesn't even matter who wins the election. And to say if Croatia comes out of crisis today we want every citizen of that country to feel it on their backs and we won't spit that it's not good. If that's the case, if the whole people will feel it then it's good. But it's not good for us to run from the defenders and the ones who support them say that we... That we want conflict. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we were in the prime minister's seat, we would sit on the bench next to them and talk to them without fear and without a fig tree in our pocket and say what can and is Croatia willing to allocate funds for Croatian defenders, is it willing to sacrifice for those who created this country? If it isn't then it's a disgrace to the Croatian country and everyone sitting here who doesn't understand the people who are out there and who have all the legitimate rights. We want a better Croatia and Croatia that will understand everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106416	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Dear colleague Jadranka Kosor, representative, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106417	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, if there was once no time for paroles and phrases then I think today is not the time for paroles and phrases and for any kind of demagogy because there is no more to explain to anyone, more or less everything is familiar. The facts are on the table and I think, first of all, that this body, this House, is a political body, should be said that in a political sense here absolutely no one can come out as a winner. This is a situation that is extremely bad, I dare say extremely dangerous. And now all we have to do is get to the point, and I suggest that each of us make a suggestion. So the laws in Croatia, the rule of law for which the defenders fought must be respected by everyone. The Constitution must respect everyone, the laws are binding on everyone and that is a fact we do not have to discuss in the Croatian Parliament. However, when such a difficult, dangerous situation occurs, it is always at the end of the day that the most responsible government is responsible. That is why I call on the Prime Minister to determine the time and place of the meeting, to do so today because whatever pressures you have to make the Prime Minister accept Croatian defenders won't stop. The fact is that neither the government nor the minister of any government, nor this government can be replaced on the road, can be replaced on the street and cannot be replaced by this type of pressure. The fact is the same, and that should be said openly, during the time and past government and the pre-government protests in St. Mark's Square were banned. And what we now have as a fact is the consequence of the decision of the current government, or government and the ruling majority, to open that space to protests. And that should also be appreciated in this debate. But I also call on Croatian defenders who were members of the victorious Croatian Army to take this step, to go home, to break up, to go home today, to show and in such a way that they truly respect and respect what is important to us all, and that is the rule of law in the fullest sense of that word. I also call on politicians who have supported from the beginning what is absolutely right, who have stayed in the tent many times in Sava, so who supported the protests and all those passwords that were sent from the tent, to gain both strength and courage and to call on Croatian defenders, I repeat, members of the victorious Croatian Army to dissipate and give a place to talk. Without talking this time, it won't work. And here I think that both courage and strength and determination must be shown all because 100% for Croatia is the one for the rule of law. And I think we should really show that we are all for the rule of law and political parties, but I repeat Croatian defenders, the Croatian Government and, of course, all the institutions of the Croatian State. So I think that exactly what Croatian defenders have been ordering for days and months for 100% for Croatia, for the Croatian state of all its citizens and citizens should really show in action. Without a deal like this, we won't be able to. And so I appeal to all of you colleagues and colleagues, try to help. Anyone who tries to pour a drop of oil on fire in this situation is playing with this fire that no one will ever be able to put out again and those who pour a single drop into this difficult, dangerous and actually extremely sad situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106418	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker. ... And Zvonko Milas, I'm sorry, I wrote on the call, I apologize. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A colleague named Tink Miles in the name of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106419	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, an hour ago I was on the Croatian Radio and took part in the Croatian Radio "Polygraph" and what I have been thinking about lately and there has been confirmed by listening to our citizens' thoughts about all this is happening, it is obvious that Croatian society is more divided than ever in the past 25 years. And I ask myself a question, if dialogue, conversation, are not a problem as we all claim and are not, which is why then the Prime Minister and the President and my and your Government and the Government of these defenders in the church and anywhere else in Croatia, and even the police don't just take that little step and don't talk to people. Why don't you just do it state-of-the-art? Why don't you explain to yourself what has nothing to do with statehood, what doesn't have to do with what's called winning trust in elections, doesn't show up or do it, no matter how right or wrong. Why is it that instead of talking, he sends the police to those who insist on saying that they only want dialogue? Why is he sending police to those he said not so long ago that they are not being manipulated, that they are Croatian sanctity and deserve to talk, no matter how right or wrong their arguments are, as they were in what they are doing, and how wrong they are. Doesn't he understand that all of this has grown beyond the framework of one ministry and that it really takes being a statesman and to solve it in a state-owned manner? And why is that happening again? Didn't we learn about the Cyrillic case, that's what I'm going to call it, if we didn't realize that the law that's just a dead letter on paper and doesn't serve a man, that he's looking for the same minimal extra effort. That effort is called conversation. And that conversation we're all talking about just isn't there. If, on all this, the prime minister again shakes his hand and goes over it like a shallow stream, then he really takes responsibility, but he really takes responsibility for everything that's going on. He just needs to understand that it's time for him to start acting prime ministerically. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, as a Croatian defender, I am truly inviting you to do everything you can to resolve this situation. Let's invite Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic to come out and talk to people, but I say not by the way, not when he thinks of it, but when the situation requires it, when it requires a moment, Croatia ends up looking for it today. Because the time of totalitarianism has passed and it has just been omitted by these people out there who are in church and if we care about them we will either do it or we simply have to step down, we don't deserve to be here anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106420	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106421	President, colleagues and colleagues. A month ago, a message was sent publicly to what was happening last night, a political message. It was said someone was leaving Mark's square. Dialogue is the most common word mentioned here today. The President of the Croatian Parliament has so far been twice, I ask him to do it three times, the public and all of us have been informed of what he is like as the President of the Parliament and the committees in this House have tried to make the dialogue last all the time. The responsibility for the word spoken in these moments is great and is not the time for morbid jokes on national subjects. A colleague, Hodzic, is really not the time. The illegal treatment, taking gas bottles on the road, is not and cannot be because of the defenders, is not and cannot be because of their rights or because of the Homeland War. It's not and can't be in order to protect the dignity and the Homeland War and the defenders. It's obviously all that's happening now because of the government. The division in Croatia has gone too far and I fear when I hear the claim, when I read in the media the claim that this division corresponds to each other. Hear those heavy words. These divisions say they match each other. No, colleagues and colleagues, this division must not answer to anyone. No one. Because if we're going to build society and continue to develop it in divisions, then it's not going to be a good society or a well-organized state. And I invite everyone, stop using that division, stop using that division that was obviously deliberately created and projected. I'm in an absurd situation to defend the law that introduced the time limit against the protests I was against. Remember your colleagues from HDZ and SDP, you refused the amendment to lift the time limit between 22 and 8 hours, but I must defend this law and it must be the same for all and while it is valid, it also applies to Croatian defenders. I also call on the President of the Republic who didn't do it in a statement last night and invite the defenders to obey the law and they must obey the laws. No one forbids to protest and protest in Mark's square, but under the same conditions as everyone else in this country. I call on the prime minister to accept the call for talks, to sit down with the defence representatives and discuss whether or not any deal will come to pass. It is responsibility this time for those who have organised this political action, who finance it and stand behind it, but also for the Prime Minister and the Government to show and prove, through responsible approach and acceptance of dialogue, whether the problem is in dialogue or in something else, and responsible people, those who made such decisions in the church, I leave to their conscience whether the doors of the Church of St. Mark was opened to the needy or to someone threatened with death. And unfortunately, they became involved in these divisions that will not bring any good to this land.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106422	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, Vice President of the House Nenad Stazic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106423	Thank you, Mr. President. It's been three and a half years, hard, hard, hard, hard, where the country is being pulled out of the fungi that HDZ put it in. Today is supposed to be a day when you can say let's take a break after hard work. Let's look ourselves in the eye, give ourselves hands, the earth recovers. It was done by this government and citizens together, those patient, hardworking, honest citizens who work, who respect laws and pay taxes. But there are those who can't forgive it, anything else could, not this. After they stole everything they could from you, money, hope, today the future wants to steal from you this day. Why? Because without stealing, they just can't. They don't realize that the homeland loves itself with work and honesty, not robbery, kidnapping, threats, sowing fear. On the one hand, a way out of the crisis, and on the other, a promise of the valley of tears, and perhaps a valley of blood. They found a group of militants to get them into their cars, fight for them to bring them back to power so they could rob again. These in Sava 66 have become people's boredom. The citizens saw through them, despised them, no one noticed them anymore, paid no attention to them or to their pointless protest. That's why they came here yesterday to cover up, to steal the good news of today. They did so together with HDZ on behalf of and for the account of HDZ, they grew up with them, they grew up and grew into them. They didn't raise their tents, they kept quiet and approved when HDZ robbed citizens. Not when Sanader was collecting his watches and armored cars, they weren't. They had 25,000 reasons to keep their mouth shut every month. Shut up and back up. They don't shut up today. Today on the day when Croatia should celebrate they threaten, cause fear, anger with citizens. They say we created this country, we have the right to behave in it as we will. We're told the laws of this country don't concern us, we're above them. They say when we get to Mark's square you'll have to leave him, you elected in democratic elections. They say we can't have the police on defenders with no hands and no legs. Ivan Corrade was a defense attorney with no hands, photographed himself under the Knin flag, and the police didn't go after him when it was necessary, innocent blood fell, killed several people. Protesters in Savska took gas bottles out on the road yesterday, did it as a threat, threatened to detonate them, a threat that any moment the destruction of the city could begin, that innocent people, women, children could begin to die. They used to defend the citizens of this country, thank them. Thank them to heaven, but now they're threatening them with coups and gas bottles on behalf of the HDZ account, on behalf of and on behalf of Karamark, who's too lazy to come to work here. In three and a half years he's been in this assembly seven times, and every month he comes for his salary. On behalf of and for the account of Karamark who is too cowardly to come to the real place of dialogue here in the Croatian Parliament to say what he has, if he has and to hear what he is doing. He doesn't have to come, we don't need him. You don't need citizens either. What do you need it for? But it is time that on this day, the day that he and his HDZ steals joy from the recovery of your homeland, you, who respect the laws of this country, and do not break them like they do. You who live honestly and don't steal. Those of you who didn't sign off on your degree's work. You who have not issued national interest in bribery. You who pay taxes and don't find ways to avoid it. You who get up early to come to your work, not like he's a quitter and a coward. You who are promised only lustration and persecution because you are not members of the HDZ. Those of you who crawl will have to go through his valley of tears through which he will run into his dear Mercedes, as Sanader did in his silver armored darkness. Today is the day when you honest, hardworking, hardworking, modest, ordinary people of this country should give hands to each other, raise your foreheads, look into your eyes and say we are not afraid of you. We don't want to live in a backward and primitive environment where the nationalist spine is the only ideal of beauty, say we don't want to go back to the Middle Ages when church dogmas were above scientific truths, say we believe in fair work, not robbery, believe in knowledge and not copying, we believe in the Croatian mind that won't retreat this time. She won't give in, not this time. This time, he doesn't give in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106424	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac. Excuse me, please. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106425	I know that in this House there are different standards, I know that in this House some can do anything, and some can't do anything. But you as the first among the equals have to settle it. And no matter who in this House So did you hear the hard words? [[President: What? What?]] Well, I won't do it again. [[President: What?]] I won't repeat them so that I won't give them strength, I won't give them strength, and read a phonogram if you don't listen to what he says, so warn the speaker. [[President: Why won't you repeat when you tell me.../]] Because insulting someone here like this. After all, what would happen? So how many SDPs are in jail?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106426	No, no. If you mean prison, I don't know what an insult it would be. .../Intruder Shucker: hate speech. No, I really don't know what you mean. [[Is someone in jail? No, not really, okay.]] Wait a minute! Please tell me, I really don't know what you're getting at. If you're targeting the sloth, that's the authority your president gave to Hansel Racan, not once. That's the authorship that came from your party, that's true. That speech was politically introduced long ago. And it's a qualification that borders an insult but has already become a public discourse for a long time. That's all I'm saying. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, the speaker speech is over. ... I can't hurt you, I can't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let me tell you, I don't brag about my brains like, no, no, no, okay, thank you. I'm just telling you, I've been put here for what I know, and for what I don't know, I'd probably be expelled. You don't have the right to do business, you don't. ... You don't! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, you don't. The president's comment isn't supposed to get up. ... I've said everything. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I wouldn't comment on anything else with you. Honorable representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106427	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The club of representatives of the SDSS and I as its member are certainly the last to be invited to participate in this debate, not because we would not have to say but because sometimes people think and say so as to concern us. Why should we care that the Croatian defender grabs the throat of a Croatian police officer? And I went out on behalf of my club to say that I care, and that my club is like one of the clubs in the Croatian Parliament because we care, because it's about our country and it's about our people. That's how he wanted to talk to my colleague Hodzic, I'm quite sure of it. But the fact that an atmosphere is being created in our country is becoming increasingly exclusive and that those who were included until yesterday as an equal part of political life and making political decisions today are being excluded as is the case with members of the national minorities and their representatives. And when representatives of the national minorities speak publicly, 8 of them, then there is the silence of the same Croatian Radio, a colleague of Milas, on which you heard the voice of the people this morning. But the message of eight representatives of the national minority club is probably not to be heard because it is not the voice of the people. That's where we came from. But it's not, I'm not saying that, and I don't care about that. I went out to speak for the following two things, in Croatia it is called for unity and it is all about destroying society and a democratic institution. Where in a democratic society is community built than in institutions and within the framework of laws and on the basis of legal norms? And if the laws won't be respected as to how it can be called to union, on what grounds? On the basis of the Croatianism that someone has determined is better with us than with others? Based on something else? So why did we create a state for 25 years? Terrible sufferings and denials and misunderstandings, to come and say no today, we need unity but we don't need law and we don't need democratic institutions, we don't need to defend them. The president of the Croatian Parliament, members of the presidency, committees that spoke on several occasions were humiliated on several occasions. That's not what we're talking about. And now for the dialogue. For a long time, it has been done that there is no dialogue in Croatia because Croatia is wanted without dialogue. Imposed values, imposed beliefs and imposed policies. Out of the political party corps and out of Parliament. Now, if some political parties in this House feel that this is how political parties should function, that they have support from non-political institutions, from those who do not go to the elections, that they are saying how to speak and how to do this is a serious problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106428	Thank you. Thank you very much. First, I would like to say that all MPs in the Croatian Parliament have the same obligation and the same oath. They have the same obligation and the same oath. At least I'd like to finish my thought and then come in. Secondly, I would like to emphasise, and I believe that I share with you the feeling that Croatian defenders have indeed made an immeasurable contribution to the creation of the Republic of Croatia, the state. Without their engagement and defence in the Homeland War, we would not really be sitting here today in the highest legislative body of the Croatian state, free, independent, democratic, EU members and NATO members. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs I wish to repeat, in the election year we must not put ourselves in a position to destroy the values of Croatian society due to personal political breakthrough or breach of any political options. You should live after the elections and take care of both the Croatian state and Croatian society and after the elections. Build democratic values and democratic institutions. Only democratic institutions and principles of democracy can ensure that social conflicts, problems and different views are resolved in a democratic way and in institutions. I repeat, the institutions are protecting all of us right. Of course, we will never build a society that will not be of different interest and different views, but these different interests and different views must prevail in dialogue. And now I ask once again the increased responsibility of all MPs and all officials, given that the fact that we have raised tensions and divisions in society, and our responsibility is greatest because our powers and powers are greatest. Thank you very much. And now we will go to the decision on, respected representative Jandrokovic, Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106430	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, given the circumstances in which we are currently in place, since tomorrow's session of the Croatian Parliament is planned on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ to explain to you some of our thoughts and our moves that we will take.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106431	What are you thinking? About the ceremony?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106432	About the ceremony session of the Croatian Parliament, connected with the circumstances currently taking place in Mark's square.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106433	Okay. Is there anyone else? There's no interest. We'll give you a break. Is it enough for us to be here at 12.15? It is. I'm setting a break. Continuing at 12.15. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.15 HOURS]] Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs have expired time for a break in the search for the HDZ club, so I would like the representative of the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic to present the view and position of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106435	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So with infidelity and indignation, we look at what happens only a few dozen meters from this assembly and it is really difficult to understand and difficult to understand that the police are keeping the environment of the Croatian defenders of the 100% disabled Homeland War. And according to the latest information I received from some colleagues, they don't even allow water, juices, and the elemental things they need to survive there at all. It's hard to understand what's in these people who created a situation like this, which is with those people who can't accept dialogue and who don't even want to talk about it in this situation. But we're not going to talk about it right now, we're already talking about it. We asked for a break because of tomorrow's Festival session of the Croatian Parliament, while on one side there are people who can't even get water to get drunk when they're thirsty, we should celebrate and drink champagne here probably because of the phenomenal successes you've achieved. It is a situation that is not moral, which is deeply inhumane, uncivilized, and we find that unacceptable. Also, our colleagues' statements, I will tell my colleague from the SDP, in the first row of Mr Grbin yesterday and Vice President Stazic today, but also Minister Matic, are statements calling for blood and these are statements that call HDZ responsible for possible blood spills. These colleagues said that without any arguments, without any evidence. They declared their colleagues from the Croatian Parliament, MPs and HDZ representatives responsible for possible blood spills. Are you aware of what you said? Are you aware that, without any arguments and evidence, you have accused a colleague with whom you are sitting in the same assembly of what you do not give God hope will not happen? But these are the circumstances in which we live and work today. And we should have a meeting of the Croatian Parliament tomorrow. This is not acceptable, and the club of representatives of the HDZ has decided not to participate in the Croatian Parliament meeting because the circumstances are such that we do not really have anything to celebrate. And I repeat once again, in conditions until I can get some water, you'll be drinking champagne here tomorrow and looking forward to it. Do you really think it's a political success, that it's a political victory? Do you really feel that you will forcefully achieve any political goal and political victory? If you're not ready to talk, it's your responsibility. But that's what you're going to celebrate, if that's already a really high level of non-civilization and immorality. I urge you once again to encourage the president of the SDP to speak to Croatian defenders with 100% of the Homeland War's disabled. It is normal to talk, anyone who cares about Croatia, who cares about humanity in these situations needs and needs to talk, not to call others and not to ask again for an excuse for their own failures in others. Dear colleagues and colleagues, consider what I told you once more. I also ask you on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club to encourage the president of the SDP and the Prime Minister to talk to the people who are here in the Church right now, for the benefit of all of us because this situation will end, but we must live after that. If there is no change, and it is obvious by your mood and by the reactions that will not come, I will repeat once again the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will not participate in the meeting of the Croatian Parliament tomorrow, and today we will no longer participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106436	Thank you very much. First thing I want to say to all of you and the Croatian public, Parliament is not mine, not yours, not ours, not yours, Parliament is Croatian and not for one generation but for all generations. In preparation for the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, I looked at the prepared film and if it was one-sided, I would not let it go because in the film 10 years is the responsibility of the HDZ for the Croatian state. So we are not celebrating tomorrow but marking the establishment, establishment, multi-party Democratic Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. And all the difficulties, this is the wisdom of growing as we move to the goal, and we have a goal that we have achieved by entering the EU by building a country and society suitable for EU democratic standards, we have the goal of building a prosperous society, a society in which all citizens will feel good, which will have a better life, conditions for the development of personal and collective. Therefore, I am very sorry that you have made such a decision, I am very sorry indeed, because this is neither the Parliament nor the celebration of one party, this is the marking of what the citizens of Croatia have done for 25 years in development, the democratic development of Croatian society in which the most important part was certainly the Croatian Parliament in which the Croatian Democratic Community had a majority of 10 years. ... She was 10 years old until 2000 you were leading, thank you very much, but I have to tell you that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's marking all of us, I repeat I'm very sorry, but I can't influence anyone's will either. We will, of course, continue, our obligation is to be responsible. You don't have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure right now, because you can't tell me that I hurt the Rules of Procedure because I was saying, please don't let me go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106437	No, no, I don't mean that, but if it's really about water, food, medicine,... Ensure that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u106438	Please, colleague Cain. I don't believe there's anyone who's gonna deny someone water. What's wrong with you, colleague Cain? Well, then. [[I believe it too.]] Now I'd move on to regular work, according to the established agenda points. It is next - Annual report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2014. The report was submitted by the Commissioner for Information pursuant to Article 60. The law on access to information. You received a proposal for an act of report. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The annual report was held by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the motionary like to give an introductory explanation? Yeah. Dear Anamaria Musa, Commissioner for Information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111660	Dear MPs and MPs here I submit a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2014. This report on law enforcement is the first full report since the establishment of a new information commissioner institution whose task is to protect, monitor and promote access to information guaranteed as a Constitution by the right of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also by foreigners to the Law on Access to Information from 2013. However, it should be noted that although this is the first full year of application of the new law, this is the right regulated in our real system since 2003 so that the results should be interpreted in this light. The Law on the right to access information that bonds according to our records and the list of 5 697 public authorities therefore serve as one of the fundamental instruments for strengthening the responsibilities of all public authorities, their legal treatment and careful availability of public funds according to the principles of efficiency and economics, as well as the means for countering and preventing corruption, which enables one in fact to act in a flexible way against all those who, who work or run public authorities, are aware that their activities and their decisions are all under the light of the public. Also, this law allows authorities to be opened to citizens. Therefore, the three basic objectives of this law have been to inform the public about the work of the public authorities, the consumption of public money and the decisions they make and to ensure the legality and accountability of the authorities, to prevent corruption and to inform the public. To this end, the two basic obligations of public authorities are to proactively publish a whole series of information on their work on their websites and also to provide information at the request of citizens in accordance with the provisions of the laws and do so quickly, effectively and legally. The second objective of the law is to allow consulted citizens on all decisions taken in the form of laws, regulations, general acts or strategic documents, and therefore the law prescribes the obligation to consult the public and also the third obligation of public authorities to make use of the information contained in the EU re-use directive, which is new, which we did not have before in the law to allow all citizens, and in particular entrepreneurs and bodies and civil society to use those information owned by public administrations in the form of computerised information in order to create new products and thus improve economic and social development. This applies to the publication of different databases such as registers, registers, etc. which public authorities lead and allow the creation of different applications and other information and technological solutions. As far as the report itself is concerned, it has been drawn up on the basis of a report by the public authority, and we can say that these bodies have implemented their obligation in part. Therefore, the report did not supply each 3rd body of public authorities, so almost 40%, and the same number of bodies has not yet been appointed by the information officer. So a little more than half of the body is almost two-thirds of the bodies fulfil their basic and basic obligations under this law, which is to set up a mechanism to provide information to the public and to answer the Commissioner in a way that they submit an annual report. Whatever the data is, and they are half-regular, do not show the whole picture, and they are also relatively unreliable, can be said at least according to what the authorities claim to have received almost 22 thousand requests for access and re-information in 2014, where they say they gave 90 percent of the information to the citizens or provided information, while in only 10% of the cases they refused to provide information in full or in part. It turns out that there is a certain interest in the information of the public authority, but it is also evident that citizens are still focused on applying instead of finding most of this information on the public authorities' websites. Also, by focusing on information through websites in a large way, it would reduce the financial burden on citizens and other information seekers as public authorities say they have done so over the last year, 32 thousand kunas based on the right to access information. It is therefore the cost of copying that could be avoided if such information were published on the websites. However, the basic information on the extent to which the law applies is seen from the work of the Commissioners for Information, and from the handling of complaints, the conduct of the concepts of supervision and the same monitoring carried out by the office itself according to certain criteria and indicators. So I'm going to point out this, given that the report is quite extensive, I'm going to concentrate on a few of the most important indicators. Therefore, during 2014, the Commissioner for Information resolved 807 complaints about the request for access to information or re-use of information from which 149 complaints were transferred from earlier years. Of these 807 complaints, a total of 524 complaints were resolved, which is 65% of all complaints in the resolution. We have seen several trends or problems in the conduct of the public authority. First of all, there was a rise in the number of complaints compared to the previous years, hence the constant increase from 209 complaints in 2011 to 658 complaints lodged in 2014 and, at the same time, during all these years, the same number of case resolutionrs. This shows that the use of the instruments provided by this law is constantly increased and that it is therefore necessary to strengthen the capacity of offices that have been given great and powers and instruments to work towards transparency and openness. As far as the complaints are concerned, 2/3 of the complaints actually referred to cases of silence from the administration. So the ratio of all years is approximately the same case, that the public authorities within 15 days or possibly an extended period of 30 days when they can do so do not resolve that request, in fact they are completely deafening to what the citizens are asking them to do. So that's the problem not only of this law but of the wider problem to which it should be properly put. In this way, public authorities endanger the exercise of the fundamental right of citizens and also do not allow citizens to exercise their other rights or exercise their control role in relation to public authorities. Also in resolved complaints, therefore from those situations which have been resolved before the Commissioner or possibly still before the High Court of Justice, it is evident that public authorities reject or reject requests for access to information, most often under the law of unfounded reasons or the ratio of legal and illegal decisions of the public authorities is 10:12 which is a very bad situation, meaning in more than half of the cases the public authorities do not decide according to the law. It is also evident from the complaints filed that public authorities most often call for short-term information to be a business secret that it may be so slightly different than it was in earlier years when they mostly referred to personal data. Last year it was a business secret and professional secret, then personal data, and then other reasons for the short-term law. And of all these calls for a variety of redundancies, it has been found in the implemented procedures that in 2/3 of cases they were wrong, so that they were called either for these reasons out of ignorance or in order not to actually be transparent and not respond to the citizens and not provide them with the information they are looking for. As far as the applicants themselves are concerned, because if we compare the figures on the rejected requests made by the public authorities, which are around 2,000 and at the same time 658 complaints lodged, it is evident that citizens do not always use their right to protect themselves from the Commissioner, but when they use it they are mostly citizens or natural persons and others, and in a small number of others. So the natural persons were 63%, and the association 21%, the rest are legal persons, journalists who in relatively small numbers use this important instrument for their work and informing the public. And the others, too, means the bodies themselves, etc. Political parties also often endure but not significantly. It should also be noted that the Commissioner for Information, as in earlier years, acted on the concepts submitted by citizens and other persons to the work of the body of the labour authority in connection with the implementation of the Law on the right to access to information. There were 236 performances in 2014 of which half were resolved in a way that the other half were still working, i.e. there are certain difficulties in establishing actual communication with certain public authorities and their handling of the demands of Commissioners moving from ordinary communication to respecting decisions. In addition, as regards the complaints themselves, the most frequent number of complaints referred to requests made to the central authorities of the state administration and the government, so to the ministries, state offices, state administrations, noting that the government also had the largest number of requests according to the annual reports. After the state administration is followed by units of local self-government and then there are companies and judicial authorities. What is also evident is that the biggest problem in acting on performances and complaints is the local and regional level of self-government in the sense that most often it does not respond to demands, so most often it is silent if it should not be silent and it also often ignores the requests for clarity from the Commissioner himself. In particular, companies at the local level, which are 500th and which are of course very interesting to citizens, especially from certain local units because of consumption control and there are also different associations such as chambers that often show resistance to this law because they are not considered public authorities and also certain authorities of the state administration with which there were problems in agreeing to meet the requirements in a timely manner. It is also evident that citizens and public authorities are increasingly showing interest in law enforcement, in the last year the Commissioner answered more than a thousand questions of citizens what was written, which is a telephone that actually carried out and a certain educational activity in a way that referred or clarified a question that plagues them regarding the exercise of the law or the application of the law. I would also like to point out that during 2014, the High Administrative Court and other administrative courts that were competent under the earlier law passed 45 rulings within which they found that in 90% of the cases the handling of the Commissioners, i.e. the solution of the Commissioners, was legal. In other cases, the procedure was either suspended or the complaint was dismissed for procedural reasons. So during 2014, there were no decisions of the High Administrative Court that would actually show that the Commissioner had not done his job in the manner prescribed by the law. At the same time that year, we received 40 lawsuits, and I must point out that Commissioners' decisions do not trust citizens themselves most often. So in three quarters of the lawsuits brought, it's about the lawsuits brought by the citizens. And one part of these lawsuits also refers to the submission of applications and complaints by always the same citizens who often use this law to achieve some of their own, sometimes private interests. Only four indictments were submitted in 2014. One reason is the weak capacity of the office but also the principle that, during the first year of law enforcement in this new format, public authorities need to educate instead of, to move immediately with punishment. So there were 4 indictments, one against the Croatian Football Federation and 3 against units of local and regional self-government, or one city and one municipality. Of the other activities, I would only mention that 22 educations were held for public authorities, where 670 officials were educated and that there were also educations for journalists, 4 for now and in 2014 respectively, where 43 journalists were educated. So we think it is very important that journalists and citizens, i.e. associations, know how to apply, how to exercise their right and so that public authorities know how to act in accordance with the law. So to sum up, as the most common problems in the implementation of the Law on the right to access information and accordingly challenges this year and hopefully not so much in the coming years are the following. Therefore, an insufficient level of proactive publication of information on the websites of public authorities, both in terms of the quantity of information published and the type of information as well as in terms of formats and accessibility. Citizens are deprived of a fast and accessible way of public information and are forced to use legal means that often, as you can see, can be long-term and thus are burdened by the public authorities themselves because they must carry out the procedure instead of making the information easy, fast and easy to access on the website. So in view of this, we have recommended and asked the public authorities to follow the law and publish all the information they are obliged to publish and inform the public about their sessions and those decisions taken at these sessions. Another problem is also the implementation of consultation with the interested public. Therefore, in order for public authorities to be open to citizens' proposals, in order for decisions taken to be quality, better accepted, legitimate, etc., it is necessary, in relation to any regulation they make, to a strategy they make and also to a general act or other document at the local level, to carry out consultations with the public. I must say, in this respect, the situation is almost catastrophic. In relation to the central government there is a certain shift of the Speakership is not understood./... there is a certain shift. The Central Advisory Office has reported that there has been a 1000% increase in 4 years, but I must note here that this increase is maximum, to the greatest extent relevant to the advice implemented by regulatory agencies which are obliged to do so on a whole series of their regulations and by European regulations, not because they respect this law and deadlines prescribed by this law. It is therefore expected that any act, in the draft or proposal for publication on the website, shall organise public debates, allow citizens to make their observations within 30 days, in such a way as to provide answers or assessments to which they are justified or not. The third problem I have mentioned earlier, public authorities simply refuse to be public authorities' bodies, believe they are part of the private sector, that the money that the citizens have entrusted them with, the law that implements it is their private matter. In this area was one of the biggest battles in the last year, which is that bodies respond at all, submit, etc. I say we've already made one of the indictments last year for that very reason, and during this year there will be more because simply another way obviously is not there. So dialogue is not only a political problem, but obviously this administrative, operational, most ground floored one to say so. And that's why we often don't have anyone to talk to because if they say they're not public authorities, then they don't even have an information officer and they just don't enforce the law. So this suggests that 30%, which means almost 2,000 bodies believe that they are either not bodies or simply do not need them and that no one is interested in what they are doing, but I note or implement the law or perform public service, so they are responsible for users or spending public funds. So I don't know what further they need to understand than punishment. The next thing you know, as far as acting goes, so I said the silence of the administration is still the biggest problem. There is a problem with respect to legal deadlines, there is a problem of knowing the implementation of the administrative procedure, not only in companies for which this could be expected but especially in local self-government. So just ignoring not only this one but other laws. One problem that has also been observed is that very often users use requests for access to information for some purposes that are not the area of this law, actually considered an abuse. As far as I am aware, therefore, the legislator has recognised this problem and will address it through new amendments to the law, however, in practice abuse will indeed have to be limited, meaning establishing that for the purpose of abuse, it will only have to be limited to effective cases of law enforcement with... application and burdensome public authorities to the extent that they are blocked in their work. Finally, what is very important and which I think is insufficiently and recognised in public, regardless of all the efforts we make as an institution, but we are simply not so interesting to them so far, the public authorities are not sufficiently aware of their commitment, which is the obligation of all European countries, which is that all bases, registers, registers, etc. which leads to any data published on the Internet or on public data portals or open data in a format that is open, machine-readable and open source, and in order for small entrepreneurs or large entrepreneurs, citizens, civil society, scientists and data to be used for any useful, general or economic purpose. The European Union is talking about the great potential of this data to promote economic development. During 2014, we were actually just preparing the ground. Something happened this year with the opening of an open data portal, but for now it really contains only minimal, most basic sets, nothing that would be excessively interesting to public authorities. So there's still a lot, a lot of work to do. And in the end, I would just say what I am experiencing as a Commissioner to whom this body has shown confidence, the biggest problem, and why I may be taking on most of my responsibility, which is that we simply haven't had enough capacity to carry out everything that the law says we should do to protect, monitor and promote the right to access information. So during 2014, the office's capacities remained the same as in 2013, and the scope of jobs increased by multiple times, which is because of the implementation of the directive, which is because of the formation of a new body and because of the whole series of obligations we wanted and wanted to take over in a way that promotes the right to access to information, to animate citizens to use this right, etc., as is seen from the number of requests, complaints and from the number of all contacts with the office. So what the law really brings to life, in order to achieve what has been taken over and in the framework of the pre-accession negotiations and the Constitution through the inclusion of this right in the constitutional catalogue of law, and also through the implementation of the European Directive, is actually necessary to ensure that the instrument that needs to be provided is adequate, not that it is just a dragon of paper that the public authorities can easily bypass because there is no one to send, nor to go anywhere to solve what needs to be solved. So I thank you for your patience and also congratulate you on tomorrow's anniversary, 25 years since the first democratic assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111661	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the esteemed Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111662	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mrs. Musa, Your Honor, Commissioner. In your report, the special paragraph refers to information about the environment and your assessment of respect for the Law of Access to Information in that section differ significantly from what you said about this speaker. Namely, you've just said before that the bodies of the state authorities do not respect... the Convention, i.e. the Government Regulation on mandatory public participation in acts and strategies relating to environmental protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You even said the situation was catastrophic. If you had probably written that in your report that we are discussing today, and probably the Government would have noticed on your report that you wrote in such a sentence that the authorities of the state did not really behave in accordance with the law when certain strategies and general acts were left to the public and carried out the mandatory procedure of consultation with the public. I believe that the Commissioner for Information would be in situations where the authorities of the state, when the government violates... the Convention, in particular in the part where certain strategies are adopted, such as the Strategy of Spatial Planning, are adopted when general acts such as the Framework legal programme for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, when the law is violated, when the Government and the RES are not implemented by the Archduke Convention, do not implement a regulation adopted by the Government on mandatory consultation with the interested public, so that the Commissioner for Information, for the right to access to information, should react and that this should be an integral part of the debate before such a strategy, such a general act should come to the Assembly at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111663	Time. Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Anna-Marie Musa.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111664	Well, here's a thank you for your notice. When I said it was a disaster, I mean all the bodies of public authorities that were 6,000. So the state administration only makes up 50 bodies, so when we look at the whole situation, it's catastrophic. The truth is, I said that public authorities at central level are doing something more, so the State Administration is conducting consultations. But there are also cases that don't work. So, I didn't say this was a great situation, and everywhere else it's terrible. So, in principle, the situation is very bad. So local self-government almost advises nothing at all. So our data shows a terrible situation, and the state administration jumps here and there when it should. We do these things, by these actions, by these concepts and by our own initiative, and we act. And on this particular issue, we have a few proceedings before the Commissioner's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111665	Second replica, the esteemed Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111666	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament, Mrs. Musa. You mentioned units of local self-government like those that don't precede access to information. I share your concerns especially because really access to information about the work of some municipal bodies is really limited. Since we live in the 21st century, some municipalities still have no official website. It's actually really I don't know amazing, not to say inadmissible, and here I am using this opportunity to encourage them to do it together as soon as possible. That's really not a problem these days, so here I join your intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111667	The answer to the replica of Anna-Marie Musa.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111668	Thank you. Yeah, that's true. The number has increased compared to last year, but there are still problems which, of course, is not so much a cause in the law itself, but in poor capacity in general local units. And we are right at this stage, trying to help them find a way to put this in their limited budgets and with limited capacity as one of the priorities of the bar near the division of heating etc. Because, of course, when they have to choose, they'd rather give money to the citizens than to the bodies, rather than to the websites. At least that's what they say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111669	Third replica, respected Mirella Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111670	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here it is, I would like to support the report at this time, and I think that indeed the Commissioner for Information and her office are doing a very good and quality job, and in very difficult conditions, given what you yourself have mentioned, you do not have adequate working conditions, and you have received a lot of new duties and obligations. And I don't think that's a good thing, because the government should show its readiness towards open management by strengthening the role of Commissioners and your office. I'd just mention that they didn't just come conditionally told by public authorities that have certain public powers, and in fact it's private entities that don't know the law or don't want to enforce it. I think that, unfortunately, the ministries are very difficult to act as if they weren't directed enough into the law. I don't think that's about the lack of information. I think this is about deliberate obstruction, and that's where I'd like to mention the case, so when we as a party asked for the publication of a contract between the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the company Europolis Zagreb Tower regarding a lease for the Ministry of Environmental Protection which they refused to actually publish where you ordered them to give us a copy of that contract to which they were deaf and they actually filed a lawsuit against you, which I think is just scandalous. I believe that in Croatia we should copy good examples from developed countries such as Scandinavian countries, where the Information Access Committee is a central control mechanism for fighting corruption, and in this sense I hope that the following amendments to the Law on the right to access information will go in this direction that absolutely all the transactions in the budget that any public authority has, that it is the smallest account, will have to be published because in this way we will be able to control as citizens what is happening in this matter, not that we are not allowed to see the contracts. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111671	Are you going to respond to the replica or not? You don't have to answer if you don't want to. I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Leftists, Branko Vuksic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111672	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable Commissioners, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning of the Independent Left-handed Club will support the report. The report is good, and as I was saying in other reports, we are not only evaluating the report here, but we are assessing the work of both committees and commissioners. At the very beginning, one single objection to the Commissioner and the commission, and then I'll explain why, it's not your right to be invisible because you're doing a good job. That is one of the talents of people doing these jobs and you need to find ways to get into the media and how to draw attention to what you are doing because you are doing well. That's the grudge. We have long known theorists who spoke and wrote dissertations, books, that one who controls information ruled the world. Well, even the lowest officials in the municipalities, and the former local communities in the county, and then the state offices and ministries, didn't speak or in the government. What we have, what we have talked about, what we fought about, and as chairman of the Media Committee, we have received the law, we have been trying to establish order in this area since 2003. However, it seems to me today that it is all formalistic and that we are taking a snail step forward. How are we going to get to a satisfactory level? Just thanks to people like Mrs. Musa who, with her work, but also with our support, need to do everything to get the public first to say that the floscule we often pronounce here, which is the public has the right to know, that the public knows. We spoke earlier at this stop when we talked about the defense problem, and then we said they didn't respect the law. Look, what kind of message we here in the House send to all those who do not respect the laws when this report shows that one third of the public authorities have not filed a report. It's their legal obligation. Watch out for one third of the public authorities are deafening the law passed by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia as a legislative body, as a body above which is only a nation, some say God. What kind of message are we sending? Do not obey the law of the Republic of Croatia because nothing will happen to you. When I spoke about the report last time I said that if, now it was no longer with the ministries, it seemed to me that all the ministries had filed a report, but in previous years it had happened that the ministry had not filed a report, then I said that if the prime minister had changed the minister who had never filed the report in Croatia's history it would never have happened again that the minister would not submit the report. And if it were in some laws and if the parties would accept that the mayor, mayor or any official in public bodies, the presidents of the council or anything do not report that they must be removed at the moment. Because citizens have a right to know. Why reports are not submitted, and the ones that are submitted and said in this report are not good, they are bad. They're not all bad, but they're pure formalism. Let's please the annoying commissioner that she doesn't say that we didn't "give" under quotes, I don't mean literally, and so formalistly we approach a problem that's a big problem. And those lowest officials, now there are no more mayors, there's almost no one in the Parliament, but I'm talking to the public not to the parliamentary representatives of my colleagues because it's usually this kind of situation, so I don't have any frustration, the mayors who always said you can't do local self-government and regional self-government. It can be seen from the report that they are the most common sinners who leave citizens, not the Commissioner, the Commissioner does not exist because of herself. We didn't establish a commission here because it exists, and everything seems to me to be the only goal, so here we have it, and we did it among the first. The citizens have a right to know. Citizens are having a hard time getting information. You have also heard in the report, but you have now heard here and verbally from the Commissioner who says that it is often left to the citizens in doubt that citizens have to exorcise their justice, the right to know, means to have information in court proceedings or administrative proceedings. If we accept reports in this way and if there is no punishment for those who manipulate information then we have done nothing and then the commission will only be brought down to a mere formality. What is the biggest problem, the biggest problem in Croatia is the education of citizens, what information do they have the right to receive, in which bodies, in what way, during what time? So education, I've said this a few times already that when we talk about the law and the new law on HRT that was promised in 2012 if you remember when it was passed that the amendment of the law would come very quickly, it was a lie, it shouldn't be called otherwise, it was one deception. We didn't pass any laws that were promised. Then we need to talk about what is the obligation of HRT to play soaps, play propaganda shows of politicians who have, go on Croatian television to play some films that are among categories, or is it to educate and inform? This is an established task, which is motivated by citizens of the Republic of Croatia to pay subscription to Croatian television when better programs can be seen on commercial televisions that should not be financed at all. Exactly because they get what commercial televisions don't provide. And commercial televisions do not have the duty to educate and inform except for one piece that prescribes that they should have an informative emission of half an hour etc. But Croatia's television we didn't charge that or what it is by contract we never imposed any sanctions on any of the directors. Each director is responsible only to the foreign authorities, not to the citizens who pay him, but to the foreign authorities, and it is regrettable. And there are no commissioners or commissions or any other commission we have established there is no support at all. And they can appeal to the water management. Why is it hard to get information? Well, because uninformed people can manipulate, uninformed people can be manipulated. So from the units of local self-government to the highest bodies as soon as citizens have less information, the team is more easily manipulated, so it's easier to "manage". Then any clerk can charge 50 or 100 euros under the counter to any midwife or uninvited citizen. That's what you do. So this is not just negligence, but this is one practice that we tolerate in the Croatian Parliament. In all this, I will only look back on what makes sense at this time because of the Croatian public commission, or Commissioner who today is Mrs Musa, can simply do this job in this area. The number of civil servants in the office is four, the number of state officials, officials, and the official is one Commissioner. From money, from equipment, from frames, it's all too expensive. This institution in neighbouring Slovenia is one of the strongest institutions and institutions that, the state bodies and bodies of local self-government fear not because it is a bogeyman, because their Parliament respects that institution and their Parliament has taken a stand if we have established that institution then let us give them and we have given them a carrot, but we have given a beating. You have to answer if you break the law. In Croatia we here from this stage have also ordered today several times do not respect the law, a protest can be held without asking permission because there is always someone above the law. And it can't be. One more commendation for the report and one more support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111673	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Club, Grubisic and Cain will speak. It's obviously just Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111674	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Mrs. Musa on page 53 of this report, give the number of requests for access to information by age from 2004 to 2014. So in 2004, there were 19 600 such demands, 2005. 4 499, 2006. 4 357. So let's start with this one, not this one, but 2011. 51 930, 2012 Chuck 53 521, 2013. 24 330 requests, and last year 21 078. The bodies of the public authorities, we all know, are bound by Article 12.zakon to provide the public with the work of their bodies by informing the public about sessions, maintenance times, agendas, possibilities of direct citizens' insight unless it is a matter in which the public must be excluded under the law. The bodies of the public authorities are also obliged to designate a person, an information officer who is concerned about the exercise of the right to access information. I hope these information people are not employed, but are chosen as a rule from the employee's quota. But I'm interested in something else, who can ensure that public money is not abused. That's something when he mentioned the media Mr. Vuksic was talking about. Justice can't do that, it works on that "Lock your boss" thing to say they paint with big fish like fishermen, and then they let that fish back into the water into the sea, and they turn little fish on the castles because they're probably sweeter. Public government is making huge money for the media. Local TV, media, etc. clearly that without that money they could not survive but then part of the media makes such a racket towards those who are not the same options as they give, "give" as if it were their money, to turn it into a serious Croatian problem. And without free media to paraphrase the predecessor, there is no free society, and without free media there is no perspective society. But there's crime, there's thieving, there's nepotism, there's wealth beyond labor, and I don't want to count everything else. It is also clear that when we talk about this Law on the right to access information it must apply to public authorities. And what are these bodies of public authorities? These are from the ministry, the state administration, the organisation, the state administration's offices in the counties, and then the Parliament, the President of the Republic, the Government, the CNB, local administration, self-government, cities, municipalities, counties, etc. In one word in Croatia, we have 5,697 bodies of public authorities. That figure alone of 5,697 speaks for itself. In these bodies they probably work at this point, if we have in mind both HRT, and HEP etc. At least 400,000 people. There are 270 thousand of us on the budgets alone, whether the state or local. This information suggests that every 4 workers work either in the upgrade or in the municipal services, with one word that they are related to local self-government or state administration. It turns out on the other hand that every body on average delivers about 3.7 responses per year. And that's why I hope they don't hire professionals at information officers' places. So we have 21.078 requests, how much did it come last year, if we divide it by these 5,697 that's about 3.7 responses over one year by one body. There's clearly more somewhere, there's less of those answers somewhere. In 2014, what was apostrophe of the same Mrs. Musa, four of which were filed against the Croatian Football Federation by the responsible person in the association, and three against the units of local, regional (regional) self-government and responsible persons in those bodies, one against the city of Rab, two of the indictments against some other municipalities, etc. On page 11 of this report, recommendations are given to improve the situation to be taken or considered with care. Public authorities are obliged to consult the public, among other things, with regard to the provision of information, it is necessary to educate public authorities, normally manage the principle of openness of data, the bodies should publish the conditions for re-use, as well as the costs they charge, also the establishment of practical arrangements for open data such as portals, should be as many as possible, etc. implemented etc., etc. All that sounds nice, but what if you control that media space like in the space I come from? Some who operated those premises until '43 were beginners for this team. As in Sicily today, I guess Calabria is coming to us to learn how to make it public in private because, for example, on drugs, you can earn 10, 20 times, these on real estate make 25 times, and even in the Navy case, about Aquapark in Poreč times 100. And now I would ask as Mr Vuksic did, but he mentioned the HRT respected lady let's fight together to somehow find out how many of these PR agencies are working in Istria, from Pula, across the county I don't know Poreč, Rovinj to a small Grožnjan. Is it 12, 13 or even 15? We know that about 15 million kuna per year stands out for that media space. 15 million kuna a year. The racket has not been seen, allegedly, that Mr Pavic will now take over the Voice of Istria and the New List. Whoever comes will certainly be better. I like to apostrophe one detail at this point probably the freest medium in Istria is Radio Pazin behind which the Poreč-Pulsic diocese stands. Come on, Mrs. Musa, let's try to fight just for that data, so we know how much it's spent, how many of those PR agencies are doing, how much money they got out of those Istrian spaces in the meantime. I claim that crime is incomparably greater than Fimi Media. We know who was behind Mangura, and he's acting one of the biggest duties in this country, and understandably nothing could have happened to anyone. I don't want anything bad to happen to anyone, but I'm asking the media to give everyone the same space and the same representation. What you should probably do but it's another political issue, to abolish a part of these bodies of public authorities. I repeat, we have 5,697 public authorities in the Republic of Croatia. I said there's about 400,000 people working in those public authorities. We wanted that local self-government or not, but one day we're gonna have to bring it down to a third. I will always argue and argue that Croatia was the fastest to develop when it was most decentralised until the 1990s and when it was most rationally territorially formed, through those 107 or 110 or 115 municipalities. The ministry needs to be cut down, agencies should be reduced, municipal companies merged. In these 5697 public authorities, you have 5697, it doesn't matter now, Prime Minister, Head of State, Director, Director, Minister, Mayor, Mayor, etc.. Well, then you have 5697 secretary, so I guess 5690 drivers or at least cars, and then 5697 of some advisors, so 5697 should also be an informer. If the systems were connected then I think at the moment we could put together at least 5697 salaries. But what's the problem? The problem that you have self-absorbed is this fact that only 4078 public authorities of 5697 have acted under the law. So one third, they did not deliver what they were asked to or, more precisely, 1536 did not provide the answer required by the law. One word of these people or I don't know these institutions should make them respect the law and do it. I repeat, 3.7 answers on average are per body. It's not much, it's nothing, therefore, it may need to increase the sentence, it needs to be introduced not only infraction but perhaps in some other responsibility to really teach those individuals to respect the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111675	Thank you. Branko Bilic, replica. Dubravko Bilic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111676	Thank you, Vice President. Here I was listening carefully to my colleague Cain and he was actually a lot of facts but also a little misunderstanding about this law. In fact, today we are represented by the Commissioner for Information, not the Commissioner for Media Management. And she, of course, has no effect on the fact that some media and for whom and how much she publishes. But what's set up as a thesis, which is that there are almost 6,000 public authorities and there are so many information officers and the question is whether these people are re-employed as information officers. No, these are regular officials of cities, kindergartens, libraries that sometimes have two employees, mere open universities and various other public institutions that simply use one person behind the commissioners, and for personal data protection officers and for work protection officers and for all those other obligations that are required under different laws. So it wasn't quite safe for new employment to come. And the question is actually I mentioned what all the institutions are, so here are the libraries that have two employees or three employees so it's not these astronomical numbers that you're saying. And you've asked one important question and who ensures the transparency of the city's administration. It is this law, Commissioner, but above all citizens, that this law is aimed at citizens and their right to obtain information from the budget, how much it has been spent on the media, on kindergartens, on any other purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111677	Thank you. Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111678	Okay, we all know we don't have 5697 professional intelligence commissioners. However, I would also like to answer another question, your question, that what the Commissioner has to do with the media. Well, there is. Vis a vis-a-vis the fact that not once I communicated with Mrs. Musa about the delivery of data on how much is spent on the PR agencies, i.e. the media in Istria County, but the answer to today is no. And then I ask myself the question of who protects them and who can make them follow the law at all. And I assure you that only for those purposes is spent at least 15 million kuna. That between maybe 10 and 15 PR agencies serve local government. That some media, as arranged by Mr. Borovsky, are performing such censorships as they can't even imagine, probably from histre to here, from the beginning of literacy in Istria, so to this day, such censorship has not been carried out, and these are some questions that we have to open up. And if I can't talk about it here in front of the Commissioner, or the Croatian public, and then I won't be able to talk about it in the space from which I come from, because such blockades, such censorships, Croatia has not yet experienced. So much for Istria's freedom that individuals have turned into the Istria of Fear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111679	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111680	Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mrs. Musa. The importance of the Commissioner for Informing Untrusted, as some predecessors have said, must be seen in the context that the right to access information is an important tool for the rule of law and a good tool to fight corruption. According to our law, the Commissioner oversees the application of the law but also carries out inspection controls, or is authorized to carry out inspections that were not available in the last year, could not be due to the staff failure of the Commissioner's office. 2014 is the first year for which the Parliament receives a full report on the work of the Commissioner and therefore I was in doubt whether to concentrate more on the situation in Croatia about access to information or on the report itself, but since the lady has been working, I would say in semi-regulatory terms as well as on finance teaming, I will focus my debate on giving some suggestions and advice on the composition of the report in the future. The first thing I'd like to say is that I believe that this report is too, but so are many that we've begun to get too large. Namely, it was standard practice for these annual reports not to cross 100 pages. Now it is a small report, a brief report if it is on 200 pages, some have crossed 300 pages so that the amount of text offered in the report does not necessarily have to mean more quality, and I would actually say that this is also a summary at the beginning of the report as the crown of the report, and I would say that too much material is left in my opinion, so I advise that the future does not rob the number of pages and the size of the report, not only of your Mrs. Musa, but I am saying it as a whole. Secondly, I recommend that in order to create the authority of the institution in a media and public sense, you be self-secure. So you have to use your right to public action not only within institutions but through the public and in my view for two reasons. First, Croatia has public television and public radio, which is the basic function of allowing such authorities to have public influence and public action. And secondly, in last year's year for media pluralism, the electronic media singled out 31 million kunas to help develop local media. The subject of the right to access information is minimally represented in these funding plural emissions, and the rights of patients and consumers are not represented at all and are financed in this context, which in itself is a disgrace. So the role of public television, public radio, must be at your service because of the citizens, and that is the advisory action, your role as prescribed by law. Thirdly, I noticed that the main financier activity outside your office was actually not the state budget but the British Embassy, which in itself is one slap and a Croatian Parliament that did not provide sufficient resources in the budget for your needs. And finally, in this part of the recommendation that you gave at the end of the report, I must tell you that they are unclear or that they do not answer the essence of the question who, what, how and when. I'll pass them later, and I'll show you why I think some recommendations will have no effect, unfortunately. The bodies of public authorities 5697 confuses many because they have not read the law or the report, so just to say that it is not the bodies of the government but that under the notion of the public authority in terms of this law enter children's kindergartens, fire departments, foundations, associations, schools, humanitarian organisations, and there is that figure that we have reached 5697. It's an impressive figure for both surveillance and inspection. The obligation to publish open data and documents for commercial or non-commercial purposes, for example, like scientific research that you stress is very necessary through websites. It reminded me of only one problem that we do not have a defined time-limit for keeping or publishing such documents, so the question arises, especially when scientific research is at issue because we have turned the archive exclusively into an electronic form and how long some documents must be published on websites to meet the criteria of public and public access. I haven't found a legal provision that would adequately regulate it. 4058 public authorities submitted a report, which means 1636 did not deliver. And what I haven't found on your web pages or in your report, and we need it, I'll tell you why, who did not deliver the reports. In fact, finding the problem regardless of what the name and last name is one of the preconditions for me to be able to locate criticism in the Assembly, but also public disclosure of these data is a kind of criticism, warning, preventive and educational action on your part. Therefore, you must always give a summary in the reports, a review of those who did not respect the law on any basis, name and last name. It's better than 2013, but far below the level to be satisfactory, you've concluded in your report. You see, if we want to get to the satisfying one, then we need to know who they are. You warn yourself that these reports have failed to satisfy their quality. I didn't see you explain what in a qualitative sense was not good in those reports. So put... maybe something in the legal context isn't good, maybe we can improve something to help put these reports together, so in that qualitative sense it's not good. 21863 requests for access to information, of which 19299 adopted, 501 in part or 19810 which is 90.6% resolved. Your assessment is missing, is that satisfactory compared to the time when the law was passed or still below the grade category satisfactory. You have to give those qualitative grades to us because you're more professional than we are so we can recognize it. Who usually refuses to comply? They're at 9.4%. So what are the bodies of public authorities that most often refuse, which are repeaters, relapsers? We've seen the report on the reasons why they didn't answer their demands, but I haven't found out who they are. It's a sympathetic fact that public authorities have charged 32038 kn. In relation to the number of applications, it turns out that one request was paid on average to kuna and 60 limes. Okay, on average it turns out that way. Maybe someone didn't charge anything, someone more. But on average, it's kuna and 60 lira prices per piece of information. 658 complaints in the fourteenth and 149 transferred from earlier years. 387 for the silence of the administration. Who are these silent administrations? You have to name them if you want me to be of use to you, help you after adopting that. It's called always locating a breach of regulations. And that could be an addition to the report. I know there's a lot of them, but without locating, we're not gonna make any of you or we're gonna move on. 45 convictions and solutions, 39 courts confirmed your decision, 4 you later acted on the appeal and so on. silence and two rejections. Once again a qualitative grade satisfactory, excellent, good, average. That's the important information we're expecting from you. I also raise 114 complaints from associations that have filed 28 on environmental protection and there have been 19 silences from the administration. Imagine, precisely on the topic of environmental protection, the Environment Fund, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Economy, HEP and Croatian Waters are most often deafened to requests for information. Bodies with a lot of professionals, central government bodies, public institutions, and we'll be dealing with DVDs and kindergartens which doesn't have a website. Sometimes we go too far in some things. I said there was no inspection, because you just couldn't do that part of the job, and I hope that's, this last year, that's what's going to be in the report. Promotion of the right to access the information you had in conferences, stands, workshops, round tables, days of open doors is so called. the institutional framework. You have to get to the people, to the citizens. You cannot do this without the media and therefore I repeat to you the public Croatian broadcasting of more than 30 million kuna per year for the plurality of local media must be stronger, you must demand, seek and resist. And as far as your recommendation goes, eleven of them are concerned at the end of the day why I said they didn't respond on the basis of who, what, when and how. First. Authorities should have websites. You don't need to write that to recommendations, that's understood. But since you mentioned this, the Agency for Hydrocarbons has websites, the Croatian accreditation agency has websites, the Energy Sector Monitoring and Business Centre has websites but there are no members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board published on it. Now what? Having websites without that data is playing law. Second, your recommendation. The bodies of the public authorities shall be obliged to consult the public. You don't have to recommend it, but say which bodies didn't implement it if you understand me. Your third recommendation. In view of Article 2(2), The law must ensure that public authorities inform the public about their work. It's not a recommendation, it's surveillance and control. Seven in a row. All public authorities should appoint a decision of the Information Officer. It's not a recommendation, it's a law enforcement thing. And let me put it short, tenth. In order to strengthen the capacity of the Information Commissioner's Office, it is recommended to provide adequate budgetary resources over the next period. It's something concrete, but it's not recommended. You must demand this from the Parliament if you understand me. So that's concrete. You are asking the Parliament to provide adequate budgetary resources and the adoption of this report by the Parliament must adopt your request, not a recommendation. That's what we're different about when we're looking at the thing. And of those 11 other ones that are clear, you are making it realistic to point out the necessity to amend the Media Act in Article 6 where it would make it easier for journalists to access information. By adopting this report, the Parliament must assume on itself two, one or two or one or other obligations to amend that law itself or to invite the Government to propose an amendment to that law. And when you come up with recommendations like that in the end, then we can, in addition, help you to comply with your legal obligations. These recommendations on the need to comply with the law can only be observed that these recommendations are not respected and I would suggest that you avoid them in the future. I believe that those 30 and something million in the next and this year will be more intended for your public role and that you understand why I say that you must publicly be more persistent, stronger, fight for media space and that is the best prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111681	Thank you. We have a single replica reported. Dear Sunny Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111682	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, you're the commissioners who said he had to form the institution's authority in some way. However, for the authority of the institution, it is an important prerequisite for independence, and unfortunately it is subject to financial independence in this case. So, one of the reasons the Commissioner's Office couldn't normally work with full capacity is the lack or depriving of the necessary funds, so even the Commissioner's Office wouldn't have had a website if it hadn't been for the British Embassy's donation. For the same reason that the state budget did not provide the Commissioner with the resources it could not set up the office as provided for it, it could not even apply to European funds. So it's all about each other. What you were saying was that it must be proactive in the media or more to be present in the media the same media equally complained about the bodies of the public authority to the same commissioner and gave very bad assessments because when journalists act under the Law on Access to Information, they also express dissatisfaction by waiting, by not answering the body of the public authority without saying that these same bodies of public authorities even to us as parliamentary deputies who do not question the questions under this law but in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, in which, within 30 days, the government, the ministries and all those to whom we are referring should answer should be ignored and sometimes we wait up to 300 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111683	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111684	My colleague Glavak, as far as the money is concerned, for the very reasons that you've now made a little wider, I've suggested to the Commissioner that the report and the recommendations no longer say that she recommends that she need more money than she needs more money, and I hope that we all understand that now. And as far as the media is concerned, you're partly right, but I could now ask you the same media how many shows have they dedicated to this topic and invited the Commissioner to the guests? How many media outlets have offered her interviews and thematic shows of the problem? Why do these media who have problems with access to information do not use the Commissioner to publicly promote the law, mandatory public authorities and the role of the Commissioner. So sometimes, don't be angry you're a journalist but I have to say, the media is doing themselves harm because they don't use that part of the public authorities that are at their disposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111685	Thank you very much. Continued discussion of the information report, annual report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2014. Who's up now? It is the SDSS club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Dragan Crnogoorac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111687	Good afternoon, Honorable President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Commissioner. The annual report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2014 is good according to the views of the SDSS Club, and reflects correctly on the conditions and problems you point to in the report itself. The law is important because of freedom of information because the right to access information is one of the fundamental constitutional rights and the openness and public work of the public authority is one of the fundamental assumptions of democratisation and a tool in the fight against corruption. 2014 is also the first year for which a full report is submitted, including the work of the Commissioners for Information. Since this institution began work at the end of last year. Those who have been following this issue for more than 10 years, i.e. since the first law passed since 2003, know how much gain has been made by amending and supplementing the law in 2013. The biggest gain of these amendments and additions is the choice of Commissioners for Information, because by then, many people who had tried and tried to get information by the 2003 law, and relying on the law at the time were not often given or better to say if they had not actually been given them for 10 years, I would say maybe even 2013. It was actually a silence of the administration. That's what I'd call those 11 years. Why am I praising this institution? Well, first of all, because everyone who's interested in information now has someone to turn to. So they have an institution if they don't get information and ask for information to address and appeal to the commissioner. I'm afraid they didn't have a coma until now. I will remind you that last year when, or in 2013, when we chose our first commissioner, I will say what the NGOs said, let's say, "The most important thing is that the Commissioner for Information is not a dead blow, but a person of energy who will fight not only for his office, not just for the funds in the budget and for his people, but for the right to access information." Now, this tells us how much NGOs and citizens wanted first of all to wait for the choice of commissioners. When we elected a commissioner at this point, the Commissioner for Information who came from a place that I remember as a professor of law school. It was then estimated that it would take some 6.5 million kuna to establish the institution’s normal work. We, and they will remember even the amendments, have demanded that the funds in the budget be increased. The funds of the total funds in the last year, which the Commissioner had, are a million 929 thousand and a little bit of kuna, together with a million and 921 thousand, together with a donation of 86,000 kuna. As I said, the report is quite exhaustive and talks about a lot of segments, talking about the body obligations of the public authorities that we have had opportunity to hear, here are numbered, but I also think in passing the law that we should have assessed whether everyone would be able to approach, public bodies whether they would be able to access the obligations they expect. First of all, it was about kindergartens, schools, voluntary fire companies, or perhaps it should be left gradually for years of law enforcement. Because not everyone has enough resources, not all of them have the authority to be commissioners of information, and we may have contributed to this report ourselves, or that some have not sent their report. However, it should be asked how it was before, as I said, so they had previously sent data to the database, but no one warned them about it. Now they have an obligation to send their reports, and in the end they didn't all send. We know why some did not want to or refuse that they are not public authorities' bodies, say some companies owned by units of local self-government, mentioning that many local self-governments single out a lot of resources are even owners or co-owners of local and regional media. However, they have the means to do so but, let's say they impose on their firms or public enterprises not, they didn't. As far as proactive disclosure of information is concerned, we absolutely agree, absolutely support it, and even in the part that speaks about where consultation with the public is sought, in the procedures of passing laws, other regulations and acts, but what we noticed last year is that many, and above all we think the ministries have used this recommendation, but they have ignored what has been so far, public debates. It was a good basis for all of us to no longer conduct these public debates as we used to be, not to be held round tables, not to be maintained, as the Commissioner himself pointed out, so counseling with the interested public, and that is something that we should not have lost, and it would be good for the Commissioner himself to provide some support to continue to do so in this way. We don't all go or we don't know when some data is published because most of them haven't even published when they're going to bring public debates and when they're going to change some laws in the current year. We know that many units of local self-government often recognize that they have obligations perhaps in the communal area, etc. And they're used to publishing a lot of this information on advertising boards like you mentioned here, not on the website or on your websites. I'm even interested in how many units of local self-government there are, and how many there are no websites, because I think there should be one indicator of how many people are thinking today that the Internet is generally accepted today, and some of them remain on the advertising boards. I don't know why some colleagues are surprised that someone didn't deliver the reports, is that because they don't know what it's been like so far, and probably for that reason. What is here because of these funds that were not quite enough, unfortunately there was no means for inspectors to carry out these inspections, so it would be interesting to see how these authorities would behave in the future. I'm surprised that no one mentioned it in today's debate, but I'll bring it up well, I'd say about a letter or an indication submitted to us by the Commissioner for Information on the 17th of the year next year is probably going to be forgotten, it's the employee's salary data, it was primarily the HRT case. Here we have received fine in this letter that the Commissioner for Information has addressed himself in this way: "As a member of the Croatian Parliament has recently been invited to issue a current issue of pay on HRT and for the same question there is a media interest as if, in the debate in the Croatian Assembly, the Commissioner for Information was invited to give his opinion on the issue, we consider it justified to note this problem. We believe that in this situation it is a decisive question for which jobs and for which persons it is necessary to publicly publish pay data, how to make wages and whether there is a possibility of carrying out a test of proportionality and public interest" I think even in this first paragraph not to read this remains clear and what it says is specifically written that here is the Commissioner. I wish this memo had come to us long before I've written it since things happen pretty quickly here, so when it goes seven days for some things it's already too late. Because we had to say in one... The debate on HRT, and then no one ever mentioned it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I consider this a good move and a good result. Normally here you have announced that they have to be published, so for each job, gross wages etc.. After that, it's now published, the HRT has announced the pay but I think there are some things I should have said before the intervention. So what's written here in the report is that I say about this very site publishing information in what way. I'll read one thing that's left for me and I hope she'll have fun. He says: Offered by the results of the analysis The Digital Information and Documentation Office has proposed to draw up a kind of Internet pattern for local units, which would facilitate the uniform publication of information and documents in accordance with the legal provisions in a proactive publication, giving the incentive to use it an understanding that the results will be easier to compare and that failure to comply with the legal obligations will be much easier to see. I think it's clear here maybe, and we should be clear that in the government's office it's absolutely known that many units of local self-government and other bodies of public authorities don't have, I would say, in different ways if they publish them, publish them in many different ways and it's much harder to get some information. So there should be a proper pattern to know when you leave and you want to search something, so you will be able to access it much easier as you access it on other websites. So as far as the institution itself is concerned, I consider it as I have said that it may be the greatest result of the amendments and the addition of the law. We at the SDSS club certainly support and we will support your work and I will only mention in the end perhaps one quote that remains quite impressive to me that says that publication or law on, amendments and additions to the laws that followed in 2013 can indeed be so much needed by wind in the back, the development of the economy on the one hand, and the return of citizens' trust in institutions, which is why open data is often referred to as fuel for democracy and raw materials for economic growth. Thank you again and I hope for your successful work in the coming years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111688	Thank you. We have one replica, Sun Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Montenegrin, I must correct you, you have made one inaccuracies. So the Law on the right to access information was first passed in 2003 and the law regulates something and citizens had someone to address. The law was in the jurisdiction of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. And it is not true that, until that time, even until the amendments and additions to the Law of 2013 or the establishment of an institution of information commissioners, there was no way and there was no institution or body for citizens to address. You were saying something about the explanations that were the reasons for opening the Commissioner's office, among other things, when it was said to be, and here you mentioned NGOs above that the Commissioner, i.e. the Commissioner, must be independent in his work. You didn't mention that. This independence is related to financial independence. I've been saying this today since we're continuing this debate here today for about 14 hours, so I'm asking you to take care of it. Likewise about what you said, we praised the law that is now in force, I will remind you that we have already had the first reading of the Amendments and the addition of the Law on the right to access to information where we are very clear and the Commissioner has shown herself about it and the NGOs have said that we will reverse the degree of democracy and the right to access information and that if these changes remain in the electoral proposed form, we will actually reverse all the democratic standards that we have achieved so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111690	Thank you, fellow Montenegrin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111691	I respect some of your interventions. I'll tell you about the independence of the commissioners. We also supported the request for an increase in funds and the Commissioner was not appointed but elected to the Croatian Assembly by several candidates as I recall. And as for publishing transparency in this regard, the SDSS Club will, you will support and discuss that, not only this one but all other laws are being edited and improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111692	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Sunčana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111693	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Commissioner, just to get it into our phonogram, so he's not a Commissioner, he's a Commissioner. According to the Report of the Commissioner for Information almost 40% of the public authorities, therefore more than a quarter did not submit a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information, making it clear that public authorities violated the law and that is exactly what those who should be first on the transparency line did. Reports submitted according to the Commissioner's report contain inaccuracies, irregularities, insufficient data quality is visible. Unfortunately, we don't see to what extent, in which segments, and we don't see exactly what bodies that apply to. Criticism has been criticised for the insufficient level of proactive publication of information on websites, which we have repeatedly led controversy and warned that this proactiveity will be a problem in law enforcement when it has changed. The consultation with the interested public shall not be sufficiently carried out. The implementation deadlines shall not be respected, nor shall any of the elements of the procedure be respected. Information officers are under-educated. The part of the public authority did not appoint an information officer at all or did so only after the Commissioner's intervention. And we kept it difficult to implement, and that's what we talked about when the law changed. The bodies of public authorities, and this is already regrettable, are not sufficiently familiar with the reuse of information. The Commissioner for Information last year, which was witnessed by the Croatian public, fought with insufficient funds and therefore insufficient capacities because 4 officials were overseeing over 5600 public authorities. Some of them may have been relieved. Even this year, the resources for the full capacity of the office's work are not enough. Just as it was planned when it was said that new information offices or the establishment of the Information Commissioner's Office would be able to work independently on the role model of some neighbouring countries, particularly the Office of Information Commissioners in neighbouring Slovenia. As a result of the lack of funds, no inspection was carried out in 2014 because the inspector was not present. The establishment of an institution and the allocation of a wide range of responsibilities without adequate capacity have seriously prevented the achievement of the objectives outlined and of the political commitments taken by the Republic of Croatia through the accession of the European Union and concern, above all, the fight against corruption and the strengthening of accountability and transparency. Due to sub-capacitation, the Commissioner warns that last year's office could not apply to European projects and that they remained on hold, so the website was created thanks to the British Embassy's donation. If she hadn't, the Commissioner would probably have found herself among the offenders of her own ′′zakona′′, that is, the law she should have supervised. As for the scope of the job, the number of cases increased by 84% compared to the year before, the number of complaints increased, performances by 84% and asked for even 114%. What is devastating, neither the citizens nor the public authorities are familiar with the rights and obligations arising from the law and thus the constitutional guarantee of the right to access information, as well as the legal provisions, is achieved. According to a survey by the Croatian Journalist Society and GONG on a scale of 1 to 5, they assessed the quality and speed of the response, from 24 state bodies 16 were evaluated 3 to 4 but the worrying fact is that one ministry and this Ministry of Finance received the worst rating, then the Ministry of Justice, the economy, the Ministry of the Interior. An additional problem is the lack of education of information officers who are usually only on the same time and we have warned because they are not people who specialize in this work, they are not educated enough, they do not know the legal rules, they do not know the administrative procedures. So it's a huge problem because people mostly in their primary business do this on the way, so it's like just another job. What's terrible about this report, and what you said about these people, it's a devastating fact and practice that they rarely get paid for this job. So when the law was first passed in 2003, then I will remember that they were asked to be people who knew something about legal regulations, who, of course, had to be educated as well, and when we changed the law, they all swore that all those officers would pass the extra education, that there would be funds for it, and that when the citizen addressed someone, however, it did not happen. In addition to these problems with the implementation of the law, the legal time limit for the implementation of the consultation is not respected, I have already said something about it, i.e. the 30-day period is ignored and there are criticisms addressed to the addresses of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and the Ministry of Health. In addition, public authorities do not, in most cases, adopt an annual plan of normative activities or a plan of consultation or supplement it during the year. They do not publish accepted and unaccepted suggestions or explanations on websites. As for complaints raised by the Commissioner, the largest number has been invested in the ministries according to the report's data, then local and regional self-government. The recommendations submitted by the Commissioner here, I agree with the evaluations of some colleagues that they should not be called recommendations but should be required, sought or otherwise. And what the law prescribed should not be recommendations, but should clearly state who, to what extent and why he did not obey the law. Likewise, there are sanctions on who is punished, to whom he is punished, and for which punishment is imposed. So I really think when we vote on this report that we need to know what we're reading about. The remaining report may taxfully count all bodies that are large and which, as new amendments or proposed changes, will reduce something. However, that would be real transparency. It is that in an easily searchable way it is possible to access these data on your website, but I think you should better and a little more contextually come up with a report. What I would like to conclude is that we must put in full office function, and show full transparency that is still insufficient according to this report. The best examples for ignoring the public authorities are also for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, although we, according to the Rules of Procedure, have the right to question the ministries or government and other bodies of the state administration, but even we are not responding within 30 days but, for example, very non-chalantly by the Government instead of responding within a 30-day legal period, it turns up to 300 days. That's exactly what happened when we were looking for information about consumption on official cards. A fellow Mesic waited for a year or if we remember, come on, it wasn't as much as it was spent in three months to promote, informing more than 2 and a half million kunas. So, just this year, but difficult representatives and other colleagues come up with answers from the body of the public authority. It's final. If the law is not good to change it, however, if we are going to change the law the way it was proposed I spoke about it when we had the first reading I think we will reverse the practice achieved and I think you should also give a recommendation and a request that the law is not changed to the extent that colleagues who voted for the changes most of them and when your office was formed then swore that we were actually making something new that would bring us progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111694	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111695	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Glavak, I'm signing more or less everything you've said than I think we need to view this as a process where things change for the better of time. We also cannot expect information officers to be independent in this process. They're usually very dependent on their bosses in local self-government units, very dependent. But I'll tell you, it's not hard to implement and I'll tell you this law has significantly changed things for the better, and I'll tell you that on one example. Until a few years ago, if you asked a question in the city of Djakov about anything, you'd never get an answer. Now there's a certain fear, there's a certain fear of the mayor that we'll report it. We'll report it very soon for an example. Three months ago, but of course we're using the city council institution, so we ask him three or four times. We're decent. Three months ago, we asked the mayor to deliver us the salary of his city council president in a city company, in a public company of the city. We didn't get that. We'll ask that question, we'll get that answer, be sure even in 300 days. But three years ago, four of you wouldn't have gotten that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111696	Thank you. Answer, colleague Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Tomic, I am surprised that you voted against the fact that the director of the Croatian Radio Television of the largest public firm in the Republic of Croatia does not have to deliver the gross salaries we asked for here in the Parliament, I am really surprised. Then you should have made it so clear and loud that, I want him to do it because we need to know because he's being funded with a billion and 300 million kuna from the state budget. When you go back a few years, then I'll tell you that I was an information officer in the government of the Republic of Croatia when the law was just in the beginnings, that it formed a catalogue of information and that all the information that came was responsible. I agree with you that the laws need to be adapted to the time we live in, that we need to adapt to the situation that needs to be changed. However, when we change them, we must not reverse them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111698	On behalf of HNS representative Nada Turina Đuric's club, please. Maybe a colleague of Tomic's would like to make a deal with a colleague later. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111699	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Commissioner, colleagues and colleagues. So what I think may yet be observed from this report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information that over the years we have made a move. So that's definitely clear from all the indicators that are in this report especially in that section relating to the public authorities' obligations. It was somehow an impression that in the past time this law had been understood this much although, of course, it should not be, but optionally, that some did not follow. However, the obvious perseverance in the implementation has led to some, that the authorities in translation are usually in local self-government mayors, the mayors understand that there are also conjectures of non-compliance with this law, and it is slowly being brought into line. So the right to access information is, of course, the democratic right of citizens and is a very important means of ensuring the rule of law and control of the management of all levels of public authorities. And what's most important is maybe a preventive tool to fight corruption. Otherwise, an excellent preventive tool to make us all function more transparently in the framework of the laws given to us, which have been given to us in the bodies of public authorities. And it is good that the more it is used, the more citizens in their interest for specific information as well as the media and citizens, the more they use this institute to access information, since otherwise, we have a huge amount of pressure actually on USKOK authorities, or police, where such arbitrary and anonymously raise any applications, or reports and investigations are made through the judicial authorities of individuals. What I think is absolutely unnecessary if under this law can be achieved, and adequate information can be obtained that can satisfy the one who is interested and not that it is implemented in some of the procedures that, unfortunately, are then being manipulated in public. This data that tells us that we've been meaning since 2010, so here's to this latest report that the number of people who filed reports has been greatly increased, so the bodies of the public authorities who filed the reports I think that can make all of us happy. Of course, that's not what we'd all want, which is to be one through one, and that's not to be avoided or sanctioned. What I still think is something that needs to be noticed and commended by the Commissioner for Information is extremely active in this so-called. preventative action, i.e. in this educational action towards public authorities. A whole series of workshops and educations were held. This is important, in a way, and it is necessary to train those people who are in the public authorities who are usually in charge of what my colleague Glavak said often after the punishment. Because at the level of, say, local self-government and regional self-government, these are the most common people who, along with some of their jobs, mean basic work, additionally in charge of information because the situation is what it is. Those in public authorities at local level do not actually have budgetary opportunities to further employ high-quality employees, so they are mostly lawyers who work in certain general jobs and whose basic work is mostly something other than this. That is why there are likely to be some of the most frequent grudges, which is to be delayed in providing answers to certain questions and citizens or some of the media or certain bodies. Because some questions simply and demand honest I can say I know it from experience because I and the mayor require a lot of time. Especially if it takes some kind of analytical approach to something that citizens are interested in. So we also have at that level like you have a problem that budgets aren't enough for you and that you don't have enough employees, even though we see that some things have been a little bit improved in the last year, so we who have to do it in that first step aren't adequately teamed up. The only reason, unfortunately, is because it's very difficult to financially secure one let's tell the whole person about such a job. I don't think there'd be any delays or avoidance, and this is one job that's burdened these employees with actually extra. So it should be commended, here I have noticed a single sentence has been established your website which has managed to be established with the support of the British Embassy in the Republic of Croatia, which is very commendable that they have helped us. However, this really should not be a cost that we could not bear without saying that there is probably still a whole series of activities that should be carried out in your own office, which would require the provision of resources, of course, by employees who will do so. And that's also contained in all those recommendations you listed in this report. I see that he is working with the media as well, which I think is extremely good, because the media itself are often not familiar with all those possibilities that they have through the implementation of this law, and that I would say a proper way of talking to information that they can get, and also possibly which questions I can even get an answer to. So there's still this data on the number of cases and there's a visible improvement and it's significant. We must congratulate the Commissioner who is relatively short here. Obviously it was necessary to form a body in this way through the Commissioner because surely your personal engagement and your personal activity and interest in doing this work adequately contributed to this report looking to us in HNS much, much better than it looked back a few years ago. We would also support all the recommendations you have made here to improve the situation, especially in this section regarding the overall teaming of your office and employees and finances that are necessary for this. And all these activities you've predicted, I think you're going to succeed with your perseverance. And I also ask you to be like so far towards the public authorities at local level cooperative and just as you've been so far because here's the whole series of problems at that local level. Of course, we have to insist, as you said, that we are acting according to the law, but I say maybe a little in some cases we can somehow justify these acts of public authority because of everything I said before. Thank you very much. The HNS will, of course, support this report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111700	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111701	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Commissioners, colleagues and colleagues on the importance of the Law on the right to access information and on the institution of my fellow Commissioner before me have said a lot so that I would not be much longer but I will only point out that this law applies to the authorities and to those 5,697. This shows clearly the importance of this commission, i.e. becoming a commissioner and this law, and I would disagree that nothing has changed since 2003. I think a lot has changed. That example I gave in my replica to my colleague, Glavak, clearly shows how much change has taken place. As regards the cooperation the Commissioner has in order to inform the most significant is the one which the State and the bodies involved in the implementation of certain legal provisions, namely the Ministry of Administration, the Digital Information and Documentation Office of the Government, the Office for the Association of Governments, the Office of the National Security Council, the High Administrative Court and the State School for Public Administration, the Advocate's Institutions, the Office for Human Rights of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Justice, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, the State Archives, the Ministry of Statistics, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and many others. One of the most important areas of cooperation concerns participation in the implementation of strategic documents such as the implementation of the Action Plan, the advice of the Open Authority Partnership 2014-2016, the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights 2013-2016, and the development of the Public Administration Reform Strategy 2015-2020 and the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015-2020. As part of the international cooperation, the Commissioner for Information participates in the European Commission's Working Group Public Sector Information, which is the European Commission's expert advisory body on the re-use of information and international consultation of the Committee of the Centre for Freedom of Information. There are many indicators of work during 2014 and it would be unfair for some of them not to mention. We need to see that the office is really doing an important job. Namely, a total of 1569 cases were received, 658 complaints of which 524 were resolved, 42 responses were made to the complaint and 45 decisions of the Administrative Courts were taken, 236 submissions were received and 143 resolved. The inspections were not carried out because there were no inspectors in the office during that period. It was answered on 368 written queries and 665 enquiries via info phone. 107 memos of citizens notified to the Commissioner of the requested information were received, a list of the public authorities who had already mentioned 5,697 bodies by the end of 2014. 22 educations were organised to educate 690 information officers and 43 journalists. Five public events were organised and the commissioner and officials participated in 20 other public events in the Republic of Croatia and 8 public events abroad. The web site has been visited over 47 thousand times over 8 months and three promotional videos have been created. Annual reports for 2013 have been collected for a total of 3,462 public authorities and a report has been drawn up on the implementation of the 2013 law adopted here in the Croatian Parliament. What are the most common problems with law enforcement? This is primarily insufficient level of proactive publication of information on websites. As regards both the quantity and type of information and the format and accessibility of the information. There has also been an unsatisfactory level of document delivery in the central catalogue of official information that leads to the mention of the digital-information-documentation office. Public consultation shall not be carried out to a sufficient extent. Information officers aren't trained enough, they're also lacking expertise in the process, I'd say they're missing some autonomy here. The part of the public authority did not appoint an information officer, i.e. it only does so to encourage the commissioners and the frequent failure on the Internet at a visible and easily accessible place to publish information about the officer along with information on the way to access information. The bodies of public authorities are not sufficiently familiar with the obligations of the law or do not want to be sufficiently familiar. In order to ensure the proper application of the law, and thus to protect the constitutional right to access information, key priorities in relation to public authorities' bodies refer to ensuring the legality of the conduct of a public authority body, training of information officers on the right to access to information, general administrative procedure and other rules in the field of information law. In the work relating to the work of the Commissioner for Information and its roles, sufficient material and administrative capacity should be provided for the legal implementation of the second-degree procedure, monitoring and supervision of the implementation of the law, in particular inspection supervision by all public authorities. It is also necessary to ensure that education is carried out for information officers and other officials and leaders of public authorities, as well as the promotion of the right to access information and the right to re-use in the public in order for citizens, the private sector and the civil sector to use such information as is of public interest both for the purpose of their own development and for the purpose of the development of society as a whole. The capacity of the Information Commissioner to protect, monitor and promote access to information is a basic prerequisite in order to achieve and adequate functioning of the offices will allow the savings of funds elsewhere in the system, especially in relation to units of local and regional self-government, public institutions and other authorities. This report will be accepted by the SDP club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111702	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's not losing her right to debate. And the final address of the Commissioner for Information, Mrs Musa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111703	Thank you. Here's a quick look at a few of the most important remarks during this debate. I could say anything about every comment, but it would take a lot of time, but what I will certainly say is that I thank you for and for the praises, but perhaps even more on constructive criticism because, in fact, almost everything that has been said here is particularly about the proposals to improve reporting in the next period and about the work of Commissioners as bodies chosen to protect the right to access information. As for the very problems that you have raised here and what you have pointed out, I would like to comment on three things, one issue of the media, and several times there has been mentioned by the media on the one hand as a question of the visibility of media information commissioners, about the ownership of the media and to what extent they are independent and whether they are at all interesting to us. Well, first of all, the Commissioner for Information is very important because a lot of information is coming from the media. What's true is that we don't have the right to stealth and we've worked hard over the past period, or I personally to be as much present in the media as possible, but if you look at our report in this section on media cooperation, where the media we've been taking part in or through interviews or in shows are listed, you'll see that it's mostly not public media or public television or... the media, but mostly those who might say a little bit more alternative, and they're interested in such topics. I agree that this is a problem, and I would like the media to see that this is an instrument that serves them and serves the citizens for which they are there, and that is not why they make money for their owners. What is also true is that during several scandals that occurred last year when we were involved in these situations, journalists unfortunately did not know how to call this institution properly, regardless of what they had communicated with us before and before. So I really think that everyone involved in public information should be in the interest that in a proper, quality and truly sovereign way of informing that same public. I can't take responsibility for that problem and I'm asking them to deal with it in the future. As far as the HRT mentioned here is concerned, I would just point out that as easy as it may have been here to get paid on HRT, the same case that the BBC had in the UK for five years was breaking through parliament making it through their commissioner to force the BBC to pay. So we have succeeded both HRT and Commissioner on our part in a much shorter period, and I think good practice has been established for all others who have very often continued to reject the body's demands by not wanting to give information on what gross wage employees are. Consider, too, that everyone here and I and all the officials, including civil servants and public servants, are public because they are public coefficients and the basis by which they are calculated. So that's about the media. So apart from our desire in principle to media especially those who are the most read and most visible more interested in what they can achieve through this law. We would like to see that the planned activity of the Open Government Partnership is achieved, and that is to amend Article 6. The media law, which will make it easier for journalists to access information or prevent the media from even using the Information Access Law, neither the Media Act, but also obtains information from high reliable and similar sources. The second question was raised by public authorities and information officers, and it has been pointed out several times, so as far as the public body list itself is concerned, we simply did not want to adapt it to the report because it would really be extensive material. This table, which was originally made using funds, is unfortunately published on our website and on the website of some other bodies and on the portal of open data and can be searched according to different criteria, and we constantly upgrade this list. Now the number has already crossed six thousand in the meantime since December 31st. What's problematic is that one part of the body stays under work and I've already mentioned that they're simply ignoring us. We're lettering it lasts, takes and lasts, and I also said last year without inspectors, without all conditions in place. We didn't even have a bill to charge those fines. So we simply didn't use it enough last year, I admit, for objective reasons, because of the principle of punishment. It is also mentioned there that Mrs Turina Đuric mentioned that we have an understanding, we had an understanding absolutely we had understanding and 10 years after the application of the law we had the understanding that bodies should be familiar with obligations and the fact that very often especially at local level what the prominent officials actually have no autonomy of decision-making. But what matters is that they need to be professional, so if they are to be professional then their ratio will grow they will be able to stand up to someone who tells them to do something illegal. So in that case we're absolutely engaged. So so far, we've educated 670 employees last year, which is more than ten percent more than before, and we've already reached that figure this year in half a year. We try and have a line of education, but the problem is that officials change because it's not one place. It was a question of how much they were paid, not the job of officials, but most often it was either speakers or legal servants from those services and very often there was a change. So one official for a year, just learn what to do and come another, it's mostly the same problem requiring attention. The third problem that seems to me to be to point out here is that you mentioned access to information through other regulations, above all, the Constitution, which says that MPs should get an answer to the questions of the Government and also other laws that prescribe the obligation of the mayor to meet the council and its members, etc. Unfortunately, we waste a lot of time dealing with situations where other regulations do not come into force. Or where other regulations should be applied especially to council members, means access to council members' information by means of a councilman to mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, etc., MPs. We have had many of you there many requests that are called requests but these are not requests for access to information, these are your representative issues which unfortunately are not answered, or answered quickly enough. It has nothing to do with even the government. It's just that kind of behavior. It's long-term. And also insight into your own file. This is when I would like to mention this law that was there in the right reading, he predicted several really big steps back from earlier times, to the present state, first of all, limiting the application of the law precisely because it was seen that this law was wrongly used to get parties introduced into their own file. So only when we had a little clarity in this story about what it was about was it not our law that would give citizens too much authority to get into something that wasn't their job but that it was the wrong application and that the public authorities simply don't know how to explain to the citizens what they have and when they have the right to ask. Because consider that we can't get to the level of every small place, etc. And here's just to bring the end, that I don't think I'm going into all the details right now, so here the key question that came up multiple times is how much change has taken place, to what extent something has changed. Unfortunately, we can't measure exactly how much change has taken place. I personally have in the last year and a half the feeling that some things have changed for the better by bringing some of the bodies of the public authorities into order. Some still don't listen to us, some ministries, health, science, etc. There's still a lot of problems. Why is it so, is it negligent,... etc. I don't know but there's still a lot of work ahead of us and it's gonna be hard to measure change for the better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can only identify how little is bad, so to what extent it improves the situation in a way that's not so bad anymore. What's certainly true here is that without the office being capacitated, and I'm saying with this much increase, you've listed how many complaints there are, how many notions, these are all increases of hundreds of percent compared to last year with the same number of people. So I really with maximum engagement, overwork we couldn't achieve anymore. So we didn't have time to walk around... and beg them to see us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whoever called us, we responded. That's how we're gonna keep doing it. However, this office lacks another 750 thousand kuna, so in the sea of the many billions that are shared elsewhere, and even so to the associations to promote transparently, we have granted 20 million kunas to associations to promote transparency and for the Commissioner there are no 750 thousand kunas. Here, I'll just tell you how things are. So here I am now calling once again this Assembly, has been invited several times by various committees, the constituency committees and by other bodies and by MPs and once again to assign these 750 thousand kunas to function normally. So it's with maximum savings, no cars, no service whatsoever. Do not forget that this law, which is now in the procedure, you are also changing the status or situation of Commissioners that he will no longer be associated with the Agency, but will have to carry out his own affairs such as accounting and information support. We're not gonna be able to hire people ourselves. So we need money to pay someone else to do this to us. We need money, we need 750 thousand kunas minimum, and I hope that this House will find that in a sea of funds not really that big. That's where I'd end up, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111704	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. I thank the Commissioners of Ms. Musa and you. For today, we'll finish, we'll continue on Tuesday with point no. 8. Final proposal of the bankruptcy law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-29-0.u111705	The annual report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2014, the debate on the report has been concluded. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: ′′The report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information in 2014.′′ is hereby adopted. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 95 votes in favour, 1 vote abstention, and nothing against, the proposed conclusion is accepted. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and respected fellow MPs. We continue with the work of the Croatian Assembly in the plenary session according to established agenda. Now we're going to - Final draft bankruptcy law, second reading, P.Z. No. 777. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of the law. This is Articles 194 to 202 of the Rules of Procedure. The final proposal was discussed by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
