ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u106685	My colleagues and colleagues, colleague Cain?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u106686	Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, in case the collective agreements do not pass, three major strikes threaten Croatia. strike of Jadrolinija, Croatian railway infrastructure and air navigation control. If that were to happen, then you know for a fact that the country's paralysis would occur in the course of the tourist season or the full season. So please pause outside the club for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u106687	I'm setting a break to 9.40. It's 9:00.31. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:40 AM]] After a break on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u106689	Dear Madam Vice President and gentlemen, the season has begun and I want to believe that this season will be solid. The tourism development strategy commissioned by the former minister of staff also said by 2015. Croatia is incometing 9.1 billion euros but here we are approaching 8 billion. For the first time, more revenue will be made than the pre-crisis years 2008 or 2009 does not matter. Let's just let if we're having a crisis in Tunisia, Greece, but I think the season is going to be solid. But I answered for one other thing. In the event that the collective contract does not pass, three major strikes threaten Croatia, the strike of Jadrolinija, the strike of the railway infrastructure HZ infrastructure and the strike of air navigation control. If that were to happen in Croatia, there would be an air, maritime and rail blockade. I'm sure some unions have absolutely justified reasons to strike, some may not, but no one should in the course of the season paralyze this country. The request of Jadrolinia in my court is 100%, or unions, they're 100% management. They demand that the lower crew on these +40 deserve to receive a full average salary plus food, etc. Peace starts in HZ infrastructure, it is about saving about 200 million kunas of which about 80 million kuna should be saved on workers. I think that's where the unions are right. In the case of flight controllers, the severances now amount to or reach more than 1 million kunas. The new ones would be about 500 thousand kuna. Some are paid in flight control and over 50,000 kuna. I agree that it is one of the most stressful jobs in the Republic of Croatia, it is probably rare that the job "responsible" is more responsible than the flight controllers, but that should be discussed. I think we all need to focus on how these strikes wouldn't happen in the course of the full tourist season. What will certainly cause the season's recommendations is also the announcement of shutting down one good part of the tourist communities, more specifically those who spend more than 25% on their salaries or the cost of their office. We in Croatia have 304 tourist communities and this legal proposal should be halved, meaning on the proposal of the IDS Minister of Tourism and the IDS head of the tourist community. About a third of these tourist communities should be shut down in Istria and Kvarner, down Dalmatia for sure 50% and up after Slavonia probably everything. On the one hand, someone will say it's good to put out bureaucracy, but someone will need to explain whether it's decentralisation or ethics. Citizens don't give their municipalities, I listen down to me defending the most expensive management in Croatia, but I think we should talk about it all, and it would be best if this central tourist community had 50% of its resources directed to those where these money is coming true. And thank God for the end, it seems that that cowardly cross on Pomljek has come to an end, seems to have ringed, finally after 30 days of reviewing these footage, the police seem to be on a good track to discover who committed that disgrace to Split, Dalmatia all over Croatia and all the citizens of this country. It took them long enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u106690	Well, in five minutes, I've listed one six topics you've been talking about and you've announced collective agreements. And I'm not going to comment on it. We are passing as the clubs agreed to a united discussion of three of the following points on the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.858. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the report at the session. Then: - Proposal for a conclusion on the problem of placing bilingual inscriptions in the City of Vukovar and applying the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The proposal for a conclusion is 1/3 of the Croatian Parliament's representative. You've received the motion for an act. The government delivered an opinion. I: - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.859. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You've received their reports. I now call upon the Prime Minister of the Administration of Mr Arsen Bauk to give an opening statement to the two draft laws and opinions of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116027	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Given the chronological order of the proposal, I would not mind proposing the second point explaining the proposal first. And I would also like to report that on the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is removing the emergency procedure, so that the laws are discussed in the ordinary procedure. So I don't know how it's regulated in business anymore, but the MPs know during the debate that it's a regular procedure. As regards the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, I would like to remind the honourable MPs that the Constitutional Court in its decision of 12 August 2014 is in the process initiated at the request of the Croatian Parliament in order to determine whether a referendum issue has been raised in respect of Article 12(1). The Constitutional Act on the Rights of National Minorities in accordance with the Constitution and whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been fulfilled. The Constitution for the opening of the referendum adopted a decision which does not comply with the Constitution, the referendum issue proposed in the application for a referendum of the Civil Initiative of the Croatian Vukovar Defence Centre submitted by its organisational committee to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 13 December 2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Act on the Constitutional Court has been laid down by the Constitutional Court that the City Council of the City of Vukovar shall, within one year of the publication of the decision in the NN, be bound by Article 6. The Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Statute of the City of Vukovar provides for and regulate for the whole area, or for certain parts of the City of Vukovar, individual rights of members of national minorities to use language and letter, and public obligations of the body of state and public authority between those mentioned in the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters which it considers to correspond to the life facts and factual circumstances in the city of Vukovar in an extent that does not endanger the very essence of these rights, while respecting the needs of the majority Croatian people that originate from the still living consequences of large-scale aggression in the early 1990s and the need of a fair and proper treatment of the Serbian national minority in the area of Vukovar. It also tasked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer, within one year of the publication of the decision in the NN, to the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the Act on the Official Use of Language and Letters in which it will regulate an appropriate legal mechanism for cases where the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government do not implement the obligations laid down in the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities or when obstructing its implementation. It also tasks the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the fact that during the period until amendments and addition of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, the competent national authorities will not implement that law in the City of Vukovar by means of coercive measures. In its decision taken on the same day, the Constitutional Court repealed Article 22 of the Statutory Decision amending and supplementing the Statute of the City of Vukovar, which was adopted by the City Council in October 2013, and, in the light of that decision, states that it fully accepts the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia concerning the interpretation of Article 8. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, i.e. calling for that Article of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, cannot be the basis for exemption from the application of the Constitutional Law in the City of Vukovar. In other words, the Constitutional Court called for a compromise, dialogue and tolerance on the introduction and way of introducing into equal use of the language and letters of the Serb national minority in the town of Vukovar. As far as the Government of the Republic of Croatia's mission is concerned, we are fulfilling it with this bill and we suggest that, this is Article 11. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Use of the Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia that, if conditions for the use of the language and letters of the national minority are met in a municipality or city, the conditions laid down by this Act and by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities of the municipalities or the City shall be governed by their statutes to the use of the language and letters within 6 months of the fulfilment of the conditions. In the municipality and the town which did not regulate the use of the language and letters of national minorities within the time limit set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, therefore within 6 months, and they were obliged to do so under the provisions of this law and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the provisions of this law and the provisions on the disbanding of the representative body under the law governing the system of local and regional self-government will apply directly. If the city, municipality or county offices of the use of the language and letters of the national minority contrary to the provisions of this law, the provisions of the law governing the system of local and regional self-government, relating to the supervision of the legality of general acts, which in the self-rule, are adopted by the representative bodies of municipalities, cities and counties. If the municipality and the town re-arrange the use of the language and letters of the national minority against the provisions of this law, provisions on the disbanding of the representative body under the law governing the system of local and regional self-government will apply. The central authority of the State Administration or the Ministry may also directly suspend the application of the Statute or of a provision thereof and propose without delay to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate a procedure for the assessment of the consent of the statutes of the units with the Constitution and the law before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the law determining the system of local and regional self-government. In the transitional provision, we define that municipalities and cities that have been obliged to comply with their statutes with the provisions of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities are obliged to align them within 3 months of the date of entry into force of this Act and to deliver them without delay to the central authority of the Administration authorised to supervise the application of that law. And if they don't, within 3 months, provisions on the disbanding of the representative body will apply. As for the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. It therefore complies with these provisions of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters and also defines that, after the procedure has been carried out, it will, for the disbanding of a representative body in a unit which is disbanded in accordance with paragraph 1 of point 7 or this, if it does not regulate the right of national minorities that the rights of national minorities will be governed by the Commissioner of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, this does not mean that after being elected to a representative body, it cannot do so in any other way but not outside the framework prescribed by the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities. Since in 2000 the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia was passed by a two-thirds majority, a question was raised by the majority needed to adopt amendments to that law. Of course, the answer to that question also requires a way of agreeing the concrete text of the law and as to which, for what proposal, it is possible to obtain a two-thirds majority but also to make it clear whether only the ruling majority or that responsibility in that case is responsible for non-implementation or decisions of the Constitutional Court, and a part of the opposition that would not accept a proposal that would be in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, but this is more now a political issue than any other issue. And in this sense, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will not enter into the debate over which most are required, that is, the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament and in the case of disputes and the Constitutional Court. However, in its conclusion, the Constitutional Committee has defined that the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities requires a two-thirds majority which I could agree on because, otherwise, almost all the rights laid down in that Act without a two-thirds majority could be abolished and which would not be in accordance with Article 83, I believe that paragraph 1 is 83. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the proposal for a conclusion on the problem of placing bilingual plates, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is on 10 October 2013. She delivered an opinion to the Croatian Parliament stating that she did not support the proposal for a conclusion on the problem of placing bilingual panels in the city of Vukovar and applying the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities submitted to the president of the Croatian Parliament by one-third of the MPs. The proposal proposed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertake to take all the measures provided for in the law for the consistent application of Article 8. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and the suspension of the application of the law referred to in Article 7(1). Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities related to the establishment of bilingual inscriptions on public institutions, institutions in the city of Vukovar until the next census. Respecting the argument, part of the arguments put forward by the proposings by the Government of the Republic of Croatia states the following. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities is prescribed that the provisions of this Constitutional Law and the provisions of specific laws governing the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities must be interpreted and applied for the purpose of respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples, the development, understanding, solidarity and tolerance and dialogue between them. The provision of Article 8 falls within the basic, principled provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which determines the principle of access to interpretation and application of the rules governing the rights of national minorities. The provision points to the need to understand the entire constitutional law why certain rights of national minorities are prescribed by law and the need to apply all the rights contained in the Constitutional Law as well as the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities which regulates the right of the minority to use its own language and letters without neglecting relevant international regulations. In the light of that provision, the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 22 July 2002 states that the provision in question is in conformity with the provisions of Articles 2 and 6. Framework Conventions for the Protection of National Minorities. The Republic of Croatia is mentioned in the Framework Convention and the decision to declare the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities The House of Representatives of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia took place on 29 September 1997. The Parties to the Framework Convention undertake to promote the full and effective equality of minority members in all areas of economic, social, political and cultural life and to provide conditions for national minorities to express, preserve and develop their own culture and identity. In the provisions of Article 2(2), The Framework Convention states that the provisions of the Framework Convention apply in good faith in the spirit of understanding and tolerance and in accordance with the principles of good neighbouring, friendly relations and cooperation between countries. Furthermore, Article 6 states that parties will encourage the spirit of tolerance and of intercultural dialogue and take effective measures to promote mutual respect, understanding and cooperation among all people living in their territory, regardless of ethnic, cultural, linguistic or religious background, particularly in the fields of education, culture and media. Furthermore, the same Article of the Framework Convention states that the parties undertake to take appropriate measures to protect persons who may be exposed to threats or discrimination, hostility or violence for their ethnic, cultural, language or religious origin. The above provisions of the Framework Convention make it clear that their purpose is to promote the right of minorities with the promotion of a spirit of tolerance and intercultural dialogue. In particular, the obligation to take the protection of persons who could be exposed to any kind of discrimination or violence because of their ethnic, cultural, linguistic or religious origin is prescribed. The Advisory Committee shall be composed of independent experts who shall follow the application of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities in their thematic comment on language rights of persons belonging to national minorities from 5 July 2012 in the framework of an explanation of the purpose of Article 6. The Framework Convention stresses that this provision concerns society as a whole and requires a policy that maintains and promotes diversity, removing obstacles and fostering contact and cooperation between people belonging to different groups, particularly in the field of education, culture and media. Thus, the obligation to promote tolerance and mutual understanding as well as the fight against any form of discrimination thus supports all rights to use language. As a consequence, and in accordance with the general spirit of bilingualism and multilingualism contained in the Framework Convention, the work of the Advisory Committee is based on the recognition and respect of the meaning of multilingualism in promoting tolerance and respect for the different in society. It is clear from the above that the provision of Article 8. Constitutional law adopted for the purpose of promoting the diversity and tolerances to be achieved by applying the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Government of the Republic of Croatia within the meaning of Article 8. The constitutional law shall take measures under its jurisdiction to fully bring about the application of the law or the exercise of the rights of national minorities. To this end, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also submitted to the Croatian Parliament an annual report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities at its meeting on 8 April 2011, so it adopted an action plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law for the period 2011 to 2013 and tasked the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities to submit annual reports to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on its implementation. The aim of the implementation of the measures laid down in the Constitutional Law Action Plan from 2011 to 2013 is to further improve or intensify the implementation of the Constitutional Law, in particular in areas where shortcomings are observed. Any other interpretation of Article 8 would be contrary to the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and Efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities was adopted. The prescribed rights shall be interpreted and applied in such a way as to benefit from the principle of equality and non-discrimination. In that regard, the Constitutional Court, therefore in its decision of 12 August on the decision on the provisions of the Statute of the City of Vukovar, stressed that it fully accepts the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the application of Article 8. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. In view of the request from the proposed conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia postpones the application of the Constitutional Law, it should be pointed out that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia prescribes that the Government exercise the executive power in accordance with the Constitution and the law. One of the government's listed powers in the constitution is to implement the laws and other decisions of the Croatian Parliament. Since the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia is in force, it is the obligation of the Government to fully apply the applicable regulations. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that in the Republic of Croatia there is an official use of the Croatian language and Latin letter, and that a second language and Cyrillic or any other letter under the terms of the prescribed law may be introduced in the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities is explicitly governed by the fact that the equal official use of the language and the letter by which the services of members of the national minority are carried out in the area of the unit of local self-government where members of a national minority make up at least a third of the population of such a unit. The following, given that the 2011 census results show that members of the Serb national minority account for 34.87% of the population of the city of Vukovar, it is evident that members of the Serb national minority in the city of Vukovar are entitled to equal official use of the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter in the area of the city by force of law. Since that provision of the Constitutional Law explicitly requires the exercise of the right in question and that, in accordance with the relevant results of the census, the introduction of official bilingualism in the City of Vukovar is therefore not a question which should be the subject of discussion on the basis of a request or initiative, it should already be accessed directly by law. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that in all three rounds so far, monitoring the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, the Advisory Committee, as a body accompanying the implementation, called on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure that the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities relating to the implementation of Articles 10 and 11. Framework conventions are implemented in all units of local self-government where a national minority makes up at least a third of the population. It is necessary to stress that the Advisory Committee maintains that the requirement of at least a third of the share in the local population of a unit for the recognition of the right to the equal use of the minority language and the letter represents a high threshold. In the third opinion of the Republic of Croatia, the Advisory Committee concluded that in the application of the law governing the use of language and minority letters, there are serious shortcomings because, in order to achieve the provisions on the equal use of minority language and letters on topographic labels, local and regional authorities are mostly competent, which is particularly problematic in those areas in which a large number of Serb minority members live. The Advisory Committee therefore encouraged the authorities in the third opinion to take proactive measures to ensure, in particular at regional and local level, effective implementation of the provisions of the Constitutional Law relating to the implementation of Article 11. Framework conventions. In addition to the Framework Convention, the Republic of Croatia was also a party to the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, and the Croatian Assembly adopted the Law at its meeting on 17 October 1997 confirming the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages. The countries which access the European Charter commit to the protection and promotion of regional or minority languages, since they are often exposed to the risk of marginalisation. The Charter contains a series of principles and measures that protect languages that traditionally use fewer citizens of the given state and which differ from its official languages in a given territory. In ratification, the Republic of Croatia made its own statement, and thus determined that the provisions of the third section of the Charter would apply in relation to the Italian, Serbian, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, Russian and Ukrainian languages. The States are obliged to protect, promote and encourage the use of languages listed in their declaration when joining the Charter. In its latest opinion on the Republic of Croatia, the Committee of Experts pointed out that in certain units of local and regional self-government it is necessary to amend or harmonise the statutes with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The government of the Republic of Croatia also reminds the promoters that the Republic of Croatia has concluded several international bilateral agreements that have committed itself to protecting minority members who are its citizens. One of these agreements is the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia-Montenegro and the Serb-Montenegro minority in the Republic of Croatia, and the agreement was signed in 2004 to highlight continuity. Under that agreement, the parties undertake to ensure that minorities are free to use the language and letters of national minorities in private public life. In addition to international contracts which are valid, confirmed, published and which are in force and which form part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and of the Croatian laws which commit to full application in the exercise of the rights of members of the national minority units of local self-government, they may prescribe certain minority rights in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The Constitutional Act on the Rights of National Minorities in Article 12 provides for the equal use of the language and the letter to which members of the national minority are to be served when prescribed by the Statute of the Unit or the Statute of the Unit of Regional Self-Government in accordance with the provisions of the specific law on the use of the language and the letter. The city of Vukovar covered by the request from the proposed conclusion has taken advantage of the possibility that despite the lack of a legal basis for the regulation of the equal use of the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter, the right to the Serb national minority should be prescribed by its Statute. The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, as well as the expenditure for 2009 adopted by the Croatian Parliament, contains the information that the City Council of the City of Vukovar adopted on 14 July 2009 the new Statute of the city of Vukovar and in Article 51, paragraph 3 of the Regulation on the free use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters in official communication and public affairs from the self-government part of the city of Vukovar. In addition to that report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded at the meeting held on 17 December 2009, which adopted the fourth report by the Republic of Croatia on the application of the European Charter on Regional Minority Languages, which was submitted to the Council of Europe, which, among other things, commended the City Council of the City of Vukovar for having adopted a new statute governing the free use of the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter and in official communication and in public affairs from the self-government part of the city of Vukovar. Based on the above all I have read, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is of the opinion that the proposed conclusion is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages, the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on the Protection of the Rights of the Croatian Minority in Serbia-Montenegro and the Serbian and Montenegrin Minority in the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities. In addition to those international agreements and domestic regulations, the Government of the Republic of Croatia takes into account the fundamental values of the Homeland War, the substantive Declaration of the Homeland War, adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 13 October 2000, is of the opinion that the proposed conclusion is contrary to the declaration. The declaration points out that the fundamental value of the Homeland War is the establishment and defence of the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, thus creating assumptions for the rule of law and the rule of law, and the legal functioning of state bodies as the best way to further affirm the dignity of the Homeland War. As it is quite a number of regulations that the proposed conclusion is contrary to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government proposes the Parliament not to accept the conclusion, and I would remind again that the regulations I have read date and have confirmation of the Croatian Parliament in '97, 2005, 2002, 2009 and the Government since 2011. At that time, there were different political options in power, so I am sure that any government of any political commitment would write such an opinion as the Governments, which mainly consisted of party representatives whose representatives also signed this proposal, but are now slightly changed roles, and this was obviously more politically worthwhile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116028	We're moving on to replicas. A colleague of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116029	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I'm going to give this all the comments you've made on behalf of the club. However, the basic question is raised since the Constitutional Court has given the city of Vukovar a clear deadline to bring the Statute within a year, and to the government of the Republic of Croatia, or to your ministry, to initiate the procedure for amending and supplementing the law that we are discussing today. So it's been a year and we are now five days before the end of this session discussing such an important issue. Why didn't you bring this amendment and supplementation to the Assembly a half-year ago and in the regular procedure as a Parliament, as Parliamentarians discussed this extremely important and sensitive issue and perhaps together with the town of Vukovar, that is, brought and influenced that they also bring their statutes. This is how the city of Vukovar will bring the Statute. The question is whether he'll be back to your grade fine, and we haven't passed the law. These provisions you provide for the disbanding of units of local self-government are dragonous. The Constitutional Court has told you the appropriate legal mechanism, not the dragon measures to regulate this issue unless the cities adopt the statutes in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116030	Arsen Bauk, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116031	Thank you. So, as far as the teaming is concerned, it is always a teaming issue and a kind of political assessment, but this proposal is in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed amendments within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court. As regards the procedure in Parliament, an emergency procedure has been removed, so there is sufficient time to find if there is a will to find a more appropriate legal mechanism than the mechanism we have proposed and which I think is also appropriate because it is therefore a multiple, frequent and persistent violation of the provisions of the Constitutional Law and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters. So for that and the representative body should collectively be sanctioned. Of course, however, I am aware that if a two-thirds majority is required to pass laws, other proposals must be heard and likely to come up with different proposals. In this sense, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is open to other ideas. Some of us have heard of the Committee on Human Rights, which we will also consider between the two readings. As for the issues of implementation itself, I believe that the City Council of Vukovar will, within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court, adopt amendments to its statutes in a manner that will be in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. And if this happens before the second reading, then it is likely that the debate on this law will no longer be in the shadows or in some way under the glass because of the city of Vukovar, but we will see how we can improve the use of language and letter in those units of local self-government in which, for example, minority members make up the majority, which also did not regulate their rights to the statutes. Therefore, if a statute is adopted in the city of Vukovar which will be in accordance with the Constitution and the law and how the Constitutional Court has written that will respect the fact of the Croatian people's suffering but which will not violate the essence of the use of language and letter, which is, in this case, the visibility of the letter, I think the debate will be much more peaceful. But neither is this restless one, for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116032	Thank you, time. Please stick to all the time available for replica. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116033	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Secretary and this attempt, I would call it a violent attempt to introduce a Cyrillic to Vukovar will certainly not contribute to reconciliation or co-existence. Your interpretation as well as the Government's interpretation of the Constitutional Law and Article 8 and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it does not accept the conclusions that one third of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament have submitted clearly states that it does not want there to develop understanding, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue between people. The dialogue, tolerance, co-existence, solidarity and understanding in the city of the victim and the sufferer will certainly not threaten to disband the body, i.e. City councils as a unit of local and regional self-government that you want to implement even though the Constitutional Court did not say so. The town of Vukovar is a town with a special pietata and there are still wounds in it fresh. I don't know what this article is about. Constitutional law only interprets biasedly and unilaterally. Why and that last paragraph where the Croatian people also write, developing understanding, solidarity, tolerance, dialogue among them. What kind of dialogue will it be if something is imposed and the law determines how and at what times the City Council of Vukovar will be disbanded? I don't see that progress, I don't see tolerance, I don't see reconciliation and I don't see co-existence. This is actually still rape in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116034	Arsen Bauk, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116035	If we exclude the words violence and rape that you have spoken in your replica with the rest of the replica, it can be polymized and there can be a common solution if there is a will, as it existed in 2009 when the City Council, although not necessary, introduced into the Statute of the city of Vukovar, the equal use of languages and letters. It was then motivated by the clear need to take the majority of the City Council, together with coalition partners who were then on state and local level, which could be politically legitimate, but then there is no turning back and we will no longer say equal use of language and letters when there are different circumstances. The wounds were probably even bigger then than they were today because it was six years ago, so it was no problem to introduce an even use of language and letters. Therefore, calling on this kind of emotion was significantly compromised by the fact that those who are today calling for this 6 years ago because of a handful of authorities were prepared and the wounds were warranted or the government and management of the city's enterprises were a cure for the use of Cyrillic. We need to make a decision here, and we need to speak clearly so that we don't needlessly manipulate our feelings. As regards Article 8, the Constitutional Court, on page 7, paragraph 8, in its decision of 12 August 2014, stated that it did not consider in particular to explain the reasons why Article 22 of the Statute decision was incompatible with the Constitution, it assessed them clearly. In this respect, it is sufficient to establish that it accepts the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in point 4 of the reasons of this Decision. Well, if it's necessary, I'll read them in another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116036	Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116037	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, first of all, this debate today where we have brought together a point on the issue of bilingual inscriptions signed by us by 52 MPs in 2013 today is groundless. Because in that conclusion, among other things, it says we're looking for an urgent debate, and it was about current events back in the city of Vukovar. So this whole thing that you've been saying on that wheel today in 2015 turns out to be meaningless. Because if you had accepted what we proposed then, there would be no need for the Constitutional Court to act or for a proposal to amend the laws that we are discussing today in the first reading. First of all, the Constitutional Court's decision, and today you have not sufficiently considered it, except that it requires a year-long deadline for the adoption of a new statute and the adoption of amendments to the law, also says that the needs of the majority Croatian people who originate from the still living consequences of large-scale aggression in the early 1990s and the need for a fair and proper treatment of the Serb national minority in the city of Vukovar. So that today we do not raise unnecessary tensions that were really there at the time of 2013, if we are to read the Constitutional Court's decision in full, then it should be fair to the majority people, not undermining or underestimating the rights of any national minority, any Croatian citizens of any nationality that we have recognised under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia long ago. And if we are now fair and without political games this is all that you have explained based on the government's opinion stands, but it also states that certain parts of the Republic of Croatia are due to the still fresh consequences of the Homeland War that no one could assess how long it will take and... Different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116038	Arsen Bauk's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116039	I agree that the provision of Article 8 provides the basis for something different in Vukovar rather than, for example, in some other cities or municipalities in the Republic of Croatia in which one of the national minorities exercises the right to some constitutional law rights and what differs, distinguishes certain views of different political parties is how wide that basis is. So, I believe, and I have been saying from the beginning that Article 8 cannot be the basis to completely exclude the City of Vukovar from using the language and letter of the national minorities especially in that visible work. So no, we are aware that Serbs in Croatia understand the Croatian language and know how to read Latin, so their use of language and letter is not about understanding what the state bodies say or knowing which institution they are entering, but about showing people who are there and people who come there that in a certain area, in a certain percentage of the law prescribed live and members of another people, therefore it is the essence of the exercise of these rights as written by the Constitutional Court. Because if that wasn't the case, then the Constitutional Court would have abolished our decision to abolish the statutes of the City of Vukovar and the story would have been over and we wouldn't have boards or discuss this anymore. However, the Constitutional Court did not assess it that way. So the best solution is that in these still how much time there is for a month to bring about changes to the Statute of the City of Vukovar unanimously and to end this story, not to go with it in pre-election time, and now whether it suits someone tactically or doesn't answer I don't know. I don't think he's responding to anyone, but if someone tactfully assesses, they'll tighten the rope further. I don't think there's any need for that, but every right to judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116040	Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116041	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Minister Bauk two things, at the beginning when you spoke, do not know which way this law will be passed, but I am convinced by the Constitution that this first law on the use of the official language and letters will be passed by a two-thirds majority, referring to Article 83. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which speaks of it even when it comes to issues relating to national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, the other law here concerning the amendments and additions to the Law on Regional and Regional Self-Government also speaks of issues of national minorities. The majority of votes are cast in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. A little contradictory and certainly not good. In fact, both should be brought by a two-thirds majority. The truth is, you've said it several times, and now you've repeated about Article 8. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities that we have repeatedly warned about and it is about this political assessment of respect, respect, solidarity and understanding in the city of Vukovar itself between national minorities and the majority people, which the Constitutional Court was talking about. What he explained in his judgment that you are here today selectively, which you are selectively talking about and which certainly does not contribute to this debate in question. But with the following article 8 The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in Article 11 shows "In the municipality and the town that the statutes did not regulate the use of the language and letters of the national minorities that this would be done directly by the provisions of this law." It means directly to the dictatorship. If it's not a city or a municipality, then it's going to be a dictatorship. And he'll ignore Article 8. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, which is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116042	Time, buddy. Arsen Bauk's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116043	Therefore, the law not indirectly applied means, directly to apply Article 8. Namely, the use of the language and letters of national minorities under the Law on the Use of Language and Letters did not only speak about panels at state institutions, so there are records on local institutions, on the streets, on entering the city, etc. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has therefore assessed, at this stage, that, while respecting the provisions of Article 8 for starting to limit it well to the boards of state bodies and then further developing the situation that the city, in accordance with its assessments, is also a law and the city is, on the other hand, we had one request or situation so that none of it could be implemented, so that it would be fully excluded. This, in my opinion, was an interpretation of Article 8 but that provision of Article 8 of its particular history. In fact, the original 2002 government proposal did not mention the Croatian people but was spoken from members of national minorities and other citizens. This was the original proposal in the second reading which went and then the amendment of the HDZ MPs then Mrs Jadranka Kosor, who is present here, explaining that there is a need for some place where the Croatian people make up a minority of the population, and the members of the national minorities make up the majority that they should also take care of the members of the Croatian people, arguing that in one of the municipalities with the majority population of the Serbian nationality during the ceremony, the Croatian anthem was not performed, which is also not in the spirit of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. This is why the term Croatian people entered the law, and it is likely that Mrs Kosor will explain it a little more in detail when she has her word on the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116044	Davorin's Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116045	Dear Mr. Minister, as far as time goes, you've already beaten us, you have 30 minutes, and we have two minutes to respond to what you've been able to read in the introduction, although your Prime Minister doesn't like it very much when the texts are read. You've covered a wide range of topics here, offered the Parliament two laws, I hope you understand that an emergency procedure would be an even worse solution, and then we're talking about the 2013 conclusion, and we're going to talk about it in particular. I'm using this opportunity to ask you, when you're already arguing your views, no matter how acceptable or accurate it is, then it would be correct to read everything that's written in a document that explains your views. You specifically quoted the decision of the Constitutional Court of August 2014, but of course only part of the disposition that seemed convenient to you, not everything that was written there. The dissupply of the decision under point 3 of the rest states that "the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged, within one year of the day of the publication of this decision, to refer to the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the Act on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in which it will regulate an appropriate legal mechanism for cases where the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government do not implement obligations under the law" etc. The Constitutional Court has not called in any letter to offer us any amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government which you have also done in an unconstitutional manner. Time won't let me explain why, so I'll use it in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116046	Arsen Bauk's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116047	You quoted the Constitutional Court's decision correctly and you noticed exactly that the Constitutional Court did not oblige us to amend the Law on Local Self-Government. I don't know with what arguments that an unconstitutional change has been proposed, but we'll probably hear about it. As far as this time of 30 minutes is concerned, I even said in the introduction that I would be happier if the first applicant from 2013 had discussed it, but now the promoter will have 30 minutes, so I can explain it. So as far as the provisions of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters and the Law on Local Self-Government, they harmonize with each other. Therefore, it makes no sense in one law to prescribe disbanded bodies because they do not comply with these provisions on the use of language and letter in a law that prescribes all other cases of divorce not to mention it. Of course there's one procedural trap, which is theoretically possible that if one law is interpreted as being passed by 2/3, and the other with the ordinary majority to bring this other one in without the other being passed, but that wasn't our original intention. And I must admit that there are a lot of arguments made by my colleague Babic that this second law should be passed by a two-thirds majority because there is no sense in making the same provisions two different laws by a different majority, but there can be me. All right. So, as for the appropriate legal mechanism, let's discuss which is the appropriate legal mechanism. There have been proposals to define without disbanding that the senior institution in the first instance will be the County Assembly, then the Government or the Parliament, and I think that the Government is enough to decide instead of the City Council, and in that case the City Council continues to function further. It can bring amendments to the statutes which are subject to the supervision of legality, so that we are open to debate. As for the emergency procedure, of course, it is better that they are in two readings, therefore we will have opportunities to discuss them even in the autumn if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116048	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116049	Thank you very much. Your work as well as the work of the Prime Minister reminds me of heroes from a famous cartoon popular titled "A that". The heroes of this cartoon are two characters Pat and Matt, these two characters simply try to solve the problem using different tools and when they solve it simply solve it in the worst possible way. Here's what you're doing that reminds me of exactly what you're doing. The Cyrillic problem in Vukovar, that's exactly how the government solves it. It began with that famous nightly setting up of Cyrillic plates, bilingual ones, and then unkind scenes, then it continued by rejecting the referendum and the will of the people to say what the people wanted with this particular problem, continued with the shift of the city government, and the finals were obviously these two laws that you are proposing. From your opening statement, I assume you don't know how these two laws will end, but the important thing is that you presented them. It is my opinion that this will not solve the problems of national minorities because you are violating what is fundamental, which is the independence of local self-government and their stability. You are introducing a solution in which the Prime Minister means a politically similar person becomes stronger than the people's will expressed in the elections, and that way minorities in these local self-governments could become a problem, not the wealth that we are constantly talking about in this House. In the end, I ask you, and what you have now presented is really the best thing this government knows to solve the problem, or you still want to make recommendations between different social groups as part of your election campaign. Who is Pat, and who am I leaving it to you in government because both are unable to solve this problem and the way you set out to solve it only testifies it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116050	Arsen Bauk's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116051	It's better to be Pat and Matt than to call for a second Homeland War. After this sentence, I don't think anything I say will be noticed, so I'm going to have to concentrate on what you said. If you know a more appropriate and better legal mechanism, suggest it. In recent times, the government has begun to accept many amendments to the HDZ Club and no one happier than me if you propose such an amendment that I too will accept it with all my heart as regards this law. One problem solved less, we move on or we move forward any way you want. As for this order you mentioned, you almost hit it every time like Pat and Matt. So it wasn't nighttime, it was early morning until afternoon. We didn't reject the referendum initiative. We rejected the Constitutional Court. We didn't replace the government in Vukovar, but most of us in the HDZ Council by provoking the budget. So, and we won't be able to pass this bill, but together, given the number of votes needed for him. So here's the thing, every time it stops, but, well, come on, you did it. Yes, thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116052	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116053	Your Honor, Madam President. Mr. Minister, you are constantly talking about World War II using that anti-fascism counterfeit, but today I came forward because you said the government should enforce laws that allow equality in Croatia. You don't do that. What are you doing for the Croatian national minority in Serbia? Why don't you react when the Serbian president wears Croatians to the Bunjevci, their children's book on Cyrillic? So you've been saying in recent months that honey and milk have been flowing in Croatia. Here I would bet that in two months Zoran Milanovic will yell for home ready so you fools Croatians will choose me for another four years of power and then we will choose us or you or so on. But there's something else I wanted to say, why don't you, Mr. Minister, bring justice to the law and call for the responsibility of those who spread hate in Croatia. Mr. Pupovac, as host, calls on that Belgrade bully minister to call the Croatian shrine of Stepinac on a cave in Lica that he was throwing someone into the pit. Stepinac is known for those professors of college and philosophy and history in philosophy, they know and they did not say that Stepinac was a Thessaloniki volunteer, a volunteer in the Serbian army breaking the front on... in Macedonia for Serbian interests and for the Serbian king. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That he was with the Serbian king in a trench on the Thessaloniki front. If the Pope hadn't wanted to name him Stepin as the archbishop of Zagreb. And to the express request of the Serbian king after 5.6 attempts, Stepinac was named as a fan of the Serbian king and king of Belgrade. And now tell that man that he didn't like Serbs and that the Serbs were thrown into the pit. And that Mr. Pupovec, who is hosting that rally as far as I've seen, doesn't say a word. So he called this man and he spreads national hatred. Why aren't you reacting to that?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116054	You're saying the minister's talking and I'm not going to say it's what you've been doing right now, but in the replica you've spoken, it has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. ... But that's not the topic we're discussing today. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Minister Arsen Bauk, reply to the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116055	As for fellow Marasovic, if he were gone, he shouldn't be invented. So he started, as far as I'm concerned,...... Will you give me back my time, it's been 17 seconds, have I been disturbed? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes, as for the very structure of the replica, it began on World War II and then continued on the First World War. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, the important thing is that there's no World War Three, that's the most important thing because you never know how it can end. So if Mr. Pupovac, or the Serbian People's Council, made a mistake inviting Mr. Vulin, then certainly Mrs. Grabar Kitarovic made an even more wrong call for his boss's inauguration. ... Prime Minister. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So when you invite representatives of another country it's from the aspect of good neighbourly relations not bad, it's that if someone abuses our hospitality, then another time they treat him differently. As far as the reaction on the ground or at the scene is concerned, it is now a matter that can be discussed and I would not confuse it with this debate. As regards the rights of the Croatian minority in Serbia, I would like to inform you that in October 2014 I was in Sutotica and spoke with the leadership of the Democratic Union of the Croatians of Vojvodina as a political party and the Croatian National Council of the Republic of Serbia, and in that sense we also made certain proposals to the Government of the Republic of Serbia in particular on the arrangement of electoral rights and the choice of members of the Croatian people in the Serbian Parliament. And as for the Bunjevac, they claim to themselves that they are not Croats I really have no obligation to care for them as Croatian minister, and when they say they are Croats they will have all the other concerns of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116056	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116057	Thank you very much. My colleague, I'm sorry, Mr. Minister Bauk, so, yes, in the next term, we'll be colleagues if God gives. So you were talking about the Law on Local Self-Government, the changes to the laws you're trying to solve that problem that came up with the Constitutional Court's decision by introducing governors for local self-government who, at the time of their own, will change the Guernator's mandate of 2, 3 months, that is to say, make the decision that you want and which you have made here. But what I was going to say is that you tell me as Minister of Administration what the situation with the use of language and letters in the Croatian Parliament is. It is not prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, but I found neither in the act nor in any constitutional law which speaks the language in the Croatian Parliament. Can we here or do we need translators here sometimes when a national minority if it's according to the Constitutional Law, and it doesn't say anything exactly, and if something isn't written then it can be implemented, so we have translators when speaking to a colleague of Juhas in Hungarian, a colleague of Radin in Italian, a colleague from the SDSS in Serbian, etc. As minister of the administration, you'll have to answer that question or I'll ask you in writing. So what the Ministry of Administration and your government are not implementing has much more important problems. You know of the Milutinovic-granic contract under which Serbia is obliged to return everything in the war, in Serbia's aggression to Croatia, to take it to Serbia and pay war damage. Why don't you deal with it when we have international agreements? You also have the international Milutinovic-granic agreement. None of us are concerned with any of these things that we are trying to do with a dribble through the Law on Local Self-Government and the introduction of thus by disciplining the will of the people at the local level of introducing what you are so eager to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116058	Time. Arsen Bauk, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116059	Thank you. If you think we'll be colleagues in the next term, I'm glad you discovered your ministerial ambitions. That's not bad. As far as your question is concerned, in Article 10. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities writes: Members of national minorities have the right to freely use their own language and letter in private and public, including the right to language and letter to highlight the labels, inscriptions and other information in accordance with the law. If we publicly interpret this part in private and in public, and in the context of our rights as parliamentary representatives, I think that their address in Hungarian, Italian and other languages would be in accordance with constitutional laws, would the President of the Parliament react in a business manner that you will have to ask him. So you'd better ask the Constitutional Committee a question, not the Ministry of Administration. ... As to what you called the governor, so in the event that there is no statute orderly right of members of national minorities in language and letter and that the city council that it is by law does not adopt, then it must be prescribed that someone else will bring it because you will not bring it to the people to say by the Holy Spirit. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it can be done by a government commissioner, can be made by a mayor, a county assembly, can be built by a mayor, can be built by a ministry and can be made by a government and can be built by a parliament or a parliamentary board, but someone has to do it. ... If it's going to be an amendment, it's not a bad idea. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's possible to get rid of it anyway, that's why we're discussing it, but just so it doesn't turn out that we know we're going to suggest something, that it's going to stay so that no one can bring it. Therefore, if there is another idea for a second reading, the one you just said will be considered. He won't stay on record, but we heard. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116060	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116061	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I've been in touch before, but you haven't seen it. Namely, I wanted to react to Article 232 injured. The Rules of Procedure, which is that the speaker can only talk about the subject under discussion. Now they are on the subject of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters. The Honorable Minister, which is why I answered, has strayed from the topic and I must admit that I am appalled by the fact that he brought the issue of performing the Croatian anthem at the beginning of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. So what anthem is supposed to be performing there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116062	I think you heard something wrong. The minister spoke in a municipality where the Croatian population is not majority. ... I don't think it's... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think you heard something wrong. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Read the phonogram and you'll see that he didn't say that. Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116063	I thought that this breach of the Rules of Procedure would be on a colleague of Dujomir Marasovic who went away from the topic because, surprisingly, he's not telling the truth a little bit, but we know that he doesn't live in this time but in some distant past.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116064	Replicate to the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116065	I would go back to what you said in the introduction, it is extremely taxingly listed, but editing the statutes of one unit of local self-government most often stems from members of the representative body. The 2009 amendments and additions to the 2009 statutes, I would add, therefore, came from some of the things that had passed 15 years after the war in the area since 32.88% of Serbs were on the census in the City of Vukovar, since people had already returned to the city. The majority in the city council at the time adopted amendments and amendments to the statutes, therefore, and thus, in some ways, the statutes were changed. Yes, it was thought of then and about it, I was among other things a member and vice president of the assembly, thought of both the victims and really what he said should express a pite for all the victims. At that time it was thought of the victims of the Serbs in Vukovar who were killed, and today no one mentions them. However, due to the turmoil, this is not good for the city, let's change the statute, but you didn't mention the statute was changed in 2014 and there was a speech to be made, Vukovar is a place of special piety and it is now in the statute. But the better with that Vukovar, it's nothing. Nothing's better. We're about to get better, but with this, I'm sure it won't be. We have heard that many are against it, but we know what happens when a higher body determines and implements laws like the county. For 18 years, schools have not been registered in Vukovar-Srijem County where classes are performed in Serbian and Cyrillic letters. And for the end, in fact, the replica. It is my question, and you have often instructed the Council of Europe Advisory Committee. What happens if the laws don't apply the way they've been written and passed and what we've joined in these conventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116066	Thanks, buddy. Arsen Bauk, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116067	So, as for the amendments to the 2009 Statute, we were in the political sense of HDZ and SDSS on one side and HSP, and the SDP was on the other side in Vukovar. Whether that side was correct is now a matter of political opposition at the local level. However, it is certainly a contrasting argument to those who are now suddenly troublesome by the direct application of the law. So it can't be that the wounds are bigger in 2014 than in 2009. It can't be 15. As for your question about these higher levels, this is the situation. The Law on the Use of Language and Letters was written in 2000 and was applied in the original form in municipalities and towns where minority members were over 50%. So, where minority members were the majority and did not prescribe mechanisms for sanctioning certain things because it was in itself understood if the minority in the majority would just decide whether to make it. If he doesn't, and what the state would react when a minority doesn't want to. And then in 2002, that threshold went down to 33%, and now we've reached towns where the minority actually makes up a minority, so it can't apply those provisions on its own. And that's why this law, it didn't have those mechanisms, because it was originally passed in case it was over 50%, and somewhere over 33%. Therefore, given that the sanctions are not prescribed any such academic implementation, I must say, because in many units of local self-government where your party has absolute authority, the statutes have also not been amended and the provisions do not apply that local leaders estimate that they are doing so for tactical reasons because it is more appropriate to them that there may again be an argument contrary to strict law enforcement elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116068	And now I ask that the proposal for a conclusion be explained by colleagues Josip Salapic and Davorin Mlakar. Davor's Mlakar first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116069	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. There were some words in the opening address of the Minister from those advisory committees, and we caught something about the conclusions that the group of MPs made for the debate in the Croatian Parliament must repeat for the public on 17 September 2013. Thank God it went so well that we are already discussing this conclusion today. I'll take the right, it's about the same subject, reprove the minister. It seems to me that in his arguments and instructions given to MPs, he did not well understand what official use of language and letters means, referring to the Constitutional Law, and the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, so he seemed to me, too, to my fellow Montenegrin. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says: "In the Republic of Croatia there is an official use of Croatian language and Latin letter. In certain local units, another language can be introduced in addition to the Croatian language and Latin letter in official use, and Cyrillic or any other letter under the terms of the prescribed law." It's from the Constitution, so there's no need for further development. I think the norm is clear enough for everyone. We came to discuss the conclusion of a group of MPs who named it the problem of setting bilingual inscriptions in the city of Vukovar and applying the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The conclusion proposed by the Group of Representatives in 2013 referred to the following: "To oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take all the measures envisaged by law for the consistent application of Article 8. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and on the establishment of bilingual inscriptions on public institutions and institutions in the city of Vukovar until the next regular census. The census sparked a dispute over what number of members of the national minority exists in a particular unit. And after meeting that criteria that rights under the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities they have. From today's debate on three documents, we are now going to talk as promoters only about this conclusion. Of course, when you kept it on the agenda for two years, it's pointless to talk about it in this way as it was proposed, because in the meantime too much has happened. What is left is the problem, and there is something left behind the name of the law that the government has proposed to Parliament. Not in any of the two legal texts you suggested, you said, but you decided to withdraw the idea of an emergency procedure, so we're going into two readings. It's not about the government's real intention. You don't want to change the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. You do not want to amend the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities. You want to be counted as a government with election results only and only in the city of Vukovar. And this law applies in all your arguments, the illustrations that happened, when, which, by the City Council, which the team was in power, everything always points to the city of Vukovar. I can't even read this law about Samobor. I don't see any connection. Then it would have been more logical if we had gone the other way and seen what was said that Vukovar had deserved to be a town of special pies in his past, and then a special law was passed, and not in this way to discuss it as you suggested to the Parliament. From the conclusions we suggested that he was discussed in time, that we could discuss this subject in time, I believe, that we would avoid everything that has happened to us in the last two years. This whole unresolved issue of relations and political and human relations between those people of the city of Vukovar, as far as this is concerned, and probably with a little goodwill, we could come up with a lot better solutions than you are proposing today and we have them. I said, no time allowed me, why you offer counter-constitutional solutions, I'd be happy to explain. You started with these laws with the announcement that they require a two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament. I think you said earlier today that as a minister, you agree with that, too, we argue the opposite. Neither the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government nor the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters requires a two-thirds majority of representatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116070	Comrade Mlakar, you will say this on behalf of the club, and now explain the proposal you have proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116071	I'm explaining, yes. I am discussing a proposal for our conclusion that is thanked to God Well, look, for two years, you've been waiting for us to come into the agenda, and now you're not giving me the right to say what it has to do with each other, and the minister wanted to hear why their solutions are anti-constitutional. [[But you didn't say...]] I'll cut you some slack. What is required in this conclusion is today the false implementation of the two laws that the government is offering to the Parliament for adoption. This was the subject which was the subject of the 2013 conclusion. Instead of accepting the discussion on this subject, the justified presentation of the position of all clubs in time and then came up with some legal text in agreement with Parliament's leadership waiting for 2 years and now we have put it into a common point to discuss the united debate in the Croatian Parliament. You'd like me to apothecary exactly when I'm talking about what topic. I'm talking about a proposal for a conclusion that's been waiting two years. That alone is sufficient reason and criticism to Parliament that one conclusion requiring perhaps a half-day debate on the subject is waiting 2 years for it to enter the agenda. And unfortunately, we are as confident as the traffic connection between the Dubrovnik-Neretva County that even today would not be on the agenda this conclusion that the government has finally not come to account with the legally elected City Council of the City of Vukovar because its composition clearly does not suit it. Why does the government offer counter-constitutional solutions instead of solving the problem? Because he passed his law on to his commissioner more power than he has. That's legally inadmissible. The Government cannot give authority to its commissioner who replaces the City Council because you want to disband it because it is not your will, the Government cannot give the Commissioner power which she herself does not have, nor does that authority belong to it according to our positive regulations. That's what Mr. Minister is at odds with this solution. But that's what we'll talk about when we get a chance to talk about these two laws because I can't get out of that topic too much. The City Council of Vukovar, following the Constitutional Court's decision, was given the deadline until mid-August to adopt an appropriate act, whether it was a statute or a statute decision, which will settle the issues which were the subject of our conclusion and amendment of the laws on the agenda. That deadline to the City Council hasn't expired yet. It is believed that the City Council will, according to the Constitutional Court, make changes or decisions to which it will settle the issue of how the Constitutional Court has appointed it. At the same time, the Government is invited to refer to the parliamentary procedure the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities and at least to that decision which you have extensively understood no other law should have been proposed but in that law you should have found solutions, I will repeat, because it is extremely important and because it is also in the decision that you quoted as currently corresponding to the Constitutional Court's decision, taking into account the provisions of Article 8. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. Today we are at a hearing after two years of conclusion which has become because of everything I have already said to the groundlessly faced with two legal texts that do not solve any of the problems that exist in the city of Vukovar. They just show, as you like to say, the transparent, very transparent will of the government to replace only the City Council of the City of Vukovar because it doesn't have that political colour the government would want there. The government lost the mayor there in another way, lost the council in regular local elections, and apparently cannot deal with the fact. So instead of finding a way to arrange life in Vukovar for the pleasure of all its citizens, you're disbanding the council. You are forcefully implementing regulations that you cannot even edit and then by direct application of the law you will arrange without the right to local self-government in general, you will in your own way and in your design arrange the rights in the City of Vukovar. I'm afraid that after two years of waiting for our conclusion and discussion on these laws that are going to be on the agenda today, we are no closer than we are to solving the problem. We will again face the problem in the City of Vukovar because as a state, we have created impossible conditions for the exercise of the rights of all its citizens. I don't speak in anyone's interest except in the interest of the citizens of the city of Vukovar because you wrote the law for him. You didn't write it for the other 555 units of local self-government. It's just that you had the town of Vukovar in mind and I think you've been talking about the stands and I think it's better if you do football than this job. You've completely missed your target.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116072	A colleague, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116073	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I am tasked with explaining our proposal, and this is a proposal for a conclusion on the problem of setting bilingual inscriptions in the City of Vukovar and applying the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and, therefore, the legal obligation to amend the proposed laws, to come after the attempt to find the right mechanisms for solving the problems that have arisen primarily in the City of Vukovar, I believe that this conclusion and the decision in question of the Constitutional Court have absolutely nothing to do with each other. The conclusion of Mr. Minister was submitted on 18th of September 2013, then the HDSSB's conclusion and Club on 7 MPs wanted to prevent tensions that had arisen unnecessary in the City of Vukovar, the possibility of major international conflicts, and all of this in the context of and at the time marking of the City of Vukovar's death Day and all of those problems that occurred then. Therefore, our intention to sign this draft conclusion, which is according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, has to do with the events of the year 2013, and nothing to do with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the opinion given by the Constitutional Court, which would be and what is the obligation legally made to resolve the situation. So let me, given that this is combined to talk today 2 years later about an urgent debate, about the problem that there may be problems in the functioning of the City of Vukovar and the continuation of international conflicts, this day 2015 there is no need to speak because thank God that such conflicts did not occur but what is most important for colleagues and colleagues is whether what we are saying today in the assembly is causing some misunderstandings to be assessed by those who have assessed that we should discuss this together. Will someone misread us when we talk about the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, we also leave it to the assessment of those who have allowed this to be discussed today two points that are absolutely not connected to each other. If there is already a need to ignore our request in 2013 then this should have been left where it otherwise stands when opposition proposals are not respected. And given that you have brought this together, if we are going to see to the end what is now waiting for us in the debate then the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia should be looked at as a whole and interpreted so that it is understood that the real problem is the creation of these proposals of the law, and that was also the intention of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, but also our intention when we proposed this proposal to conclude. He has already mentioned the obligation given by the Constitutional Court to the City Council of Vukovar but also referred to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's obligation to resolve the problem by means of a legal mechanism, but not by any intervention in a law that may have been too much, a step forward, and it is good that you went back to first reading because there may be a real problem in the functioning of local self-government because what you suggest we are not referring to the City of Vukovar but also to other units of local self-government, but we will discuss this in the darkness when it comes to this. I think that, in the context of understanding and our proposal for conclusions, it is necessary and ultimately to read the Constitutional Court's decision, and in its final part, it says that the Constitutional Court ultimately points out that it is not a participant of political debates or arbitration in resolving political disputes that arise in Croatian society. There is no other means to address the problems encountered than the versatile political dialogue conducted in good faith, however unpleasant that dialogue may sometimes be. The use of coercion as an ultimate state measure of repressive nature is not acceptable except in obvious conditions of extreme urgency. So it's one of the last paragraphs of Constitutional Decision now. So if we are going back to the city of Vukovar problem, and today I am allowed to talk only about it, because our proposal applied exclusively to the City of Vukovar and the Constitutional Court in its decision when it gives Mr. Ministers the order that the City Council of Vukovar proceeds by decision, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia also says that it is necessary to respect the needs of the majority Croatian people that originate from the still living consequences of large-scale aggression in the early 1990s and the need for a fair and legal treatment of the Serbian national minority in the area of the city of Vukovar, so here we are only talking about the area of the city of Vukovar. So if we will understand the Constitutional Court's decision until the end, then this appeal to political dialogue, primarily thinking about the Parliament and the political Croatian public, as the Constitutional Court says sometimes may be uncomfortable because he was really uncomfortable in 2013, because we were in that column when we went to Ovcari to see and hear everything and everything, and all the reason was the way the ministry and government then acted with their decisions, which is that they put bilingual tablets with bilingual inscriptions overnight, which from this pay phone when I'm saying I'm the last representative who would go about not respecting the right of Croatian citizens of any nationality. So in 2013, 2015 is not comparable, and that problem that arose in Vukovar has nothing to do with anyone's intention to enforce the rights of national minorities or the law or article 8.zacon, or the framework convention you mentioned. But I am the Constitutional Court, but you today, in your discussions, say that the Constitutional Court calls on us to respect the will of the Croatian people, taking into account all the laws and international agreements, but taking into account that no one can judge how long the wounds of Homeland Work can last and how long the wounds of certain cities, certain urban districts in the city of Vukovar, individual streets, individual families and those who have lost their loved ones. And that it doesn't turn out every time a party that doesn't belong to a national minority tells something here about a Parliament speaker, and then everyone gets on their feet that we want to hurt someone's rights it's absolutely incorrect and never like a representative of the Croatian Parliament, not personally, and my club won't accept it. It was our duty to, by means of legal mechanisms, by law of the Croatian Parliament, open dialogue here in the Croatian Parliament which has passed the laws that you all call upon to talk about. Similarly, no one could stop or prevent if the government had a good will, which is that at any point if there is a concern that the census has occurred in certain units of local self-government, as well as in the town of Vukovar, there are some illogicalities about the census and that... it is absolutely as it has been since the census, we can always make a decision as Parliament, but the Government of Croatia is looking for a new census in certain parts of Croatia, and this re-list cannot be said that it is anti-constitutional or not in accordance with international contracts, conventions and agreements signed by the Republic of Croatia. And you know why? Because there is certain evidence that certain illogicalities have occurred in the city of Vukovar as regards the census. And if she doesn't, this government will have to do something else. If our party gets the chance to be part of the future government, it will be one of the basic conditions for us not to speak freely in the Croatian Parliament, we must not talk about the problems that we have received as advocates that there are illogicalities when it comes to the census, when it comes to the use of certain rights and financial rights, when it comes to the functioning of the Republic of Croatia throughout our scope, if someone forbids us as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, then it also violates the rights, and these are violations of the rights of the majority people. I will repeat, we have the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which absolutely guarantees all rights to all national minorities, we have international contracts, we have the Framework Convention, we have the Declaration of the Homeland War, no one will at any time stop them from working freely in this country by any Croatian citizen of any national minority. But also by taking advantage of that right within that range when at certain times it enters the right of the majority people and if you're allowed to judge how long the burden of the early Homeland War in the city of Vukovar can last, then we're wrong. And then this bill of law, Mr. Minister, which we won't agree with in this first reading because we think there are other mechanisms to solve it, we won't allow ourselves, we won't allow this luxury as much as anyone thinks we're wrong when we talk about these problems in the Croatian Parliament. 52 MPs who have signed this conclusion have full electoral legitimacy because we have been elected as representatives in the Croatian Assembly and by far more difficult rules and with a much higher percentage of the votes on which one of the representatives of the national minority was elected. We are also not undermining this right because we believe that it has given Croatia the right by taking over its international obligations. If we look honestly at someone who can become an advocate with the 13,000 votes he needs, and someone becomes 2, 3, 4 or less than that, then let's be honest with ourselves, let's look at the debate of a dialogue that may sometimes be uncomfortable to consider as a first step towards better co-existence and understanding of all those who have suffered hard in the Homeland War. I repeat, the signatures of the General for the Defence of the Croatian Vukovar are not for depravation, nor are we signed by the MPs who have signed this initiative are not for depravation, but the dialogue that will be conducted in the Assembly can either be accepted by this conclusion or not, there may be acceptance of the law or not, but in any case if we allow everyone to say what they want and think in this House then allow us who do not think the same sometimes, we do not agree with this bill, we do not agree that for two years we have been waiting to discuss the problems of the city of Vukovar and we are afraid that this bill will also not bring good to those units of local self-government, and at least the least the Vukovars who have suffered the most for the freedom of this country. Therefore, Mr. Ministers in good faith and in order to find mechanisms and solutions that will not be such that the will of Croatian citizens is not accepted in the elections when it comes to representative bodies of the local self-government unit, let us find a solution to the law that will not disband representative bodies because of this, but let us also find mechanisms that will allow political dialogue that may not be pleasant. Let us not call for 2009 and a past that will not solve the future but better call for tomorrow. We disagree with this way of amending the law, let's discuss some kind of mechanism that may be milder, which will lead to full respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, but which will not go to the fact that we will read only part of the court's decisions, and the part that does not correspond will not be read. The Constitutional Court gave clear instructions to the City Council of Vukovar, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but it also gave us some conditions and a recommendation that political dialogue should be opened, that sometimes it may be uncomfortable, may be pleasant, may not be considered offensive that here when we speak today we want to trample on someone's rights. Croatia suffered a lot of wounds in the war so that any Croatian citizen, even those Serbian nationalities, would be at risk today in 2015 when we are a member of the European Union. But the voice of Vukovar, the voice of those who live in those parts, who have suffered a lot when we have passed the laws, is one of them the Law of Abolition. These wounds can't just be estimated how long they will last, whether for a year, two, five, ten or 20, those wounds can only be understood by those who have experienced it. So then I invite you all together to a reasonable dialogue, not to plant some things that are wrong, not calling us here, where we protect some of the principles of humanity first of all and understanding those who lost most in the Homeland War that we now want to violate someone's rights. If the debate goes in this direction, ours will go and answer in this direction where we will say something today that we have never said in this assembly but concerns those who use the rights of the Republic of Croatia in a way that is not the most honest and does not lead to the use of the rights of their national minorities but is taking advantage of the well-being of the Republic of Croatia. If the debate goes the wrong way because you waited 2 years for us to talk about this today, we accepted a joint and united debate, if it goes the wrong way, those who have allowed themselves to defend us here in the Croatian Parliament that we have an opinion and respect for those who do not think the same way. If this is a dialogue and it will be for the future and for the better something better and much better than it is today then let everyone freely express their opinion in this House because this Parliament represents all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and those who do not think the same way as the individual national minority in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116074	Thank you. We will now move on to the replicas to the exhibition of colleagues of Mlakara, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116075	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you've made it very clear that there are no reasons for this, above all, haste proceedings, and then his withdrawal as well as biased interpretation. Since there is research within Pilar's barometer of Croatian society that has clearly said what he thinks about Cyrillic boards in Vukovar. In this study 64.4% of respondents said they did not want Cyrillic plates in Vukovar. 38.3% believe that Vukovar should be permanently excluded from bilingual inscriptions and 26.1% maintains that this should further wait. Why wait? Why is it required to postpone the use of Cyrillic letters in Vukovar? Well, clearly, there are legitimate reasons for this, and the European Commission, as well as all European institutes, are allowed to be in areas where aggression and bilingualism were involved, i.e. A Cyrillic letter that is actually a symbol of the aggressor, actually until further notice and exception. Just as it is in a given moment, the legal decree that Serbian young men in the area serve the Croatian army was delayed until the regular service of the army was actually abolished. So we can also treat this Cyrillic letter that we can absolutely compare with the aggression that was committed in the Republic of Croatia and it actually has some sign of equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116076	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116077	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Djakic, I did not talk about symbolism and I find it hard to say that any language or letter would symbolize the necessary bad thing. But I was talking about the way this government wants to solve problems. About the fact that Parliament was not responsible enough to give two years of discussion the conclusion of a group of MPs and that by God's mercy and some agreement by those who decide to enter into the agenda but in a united debate with two laws that show everyone what was my thesis at the beginning. This is not meant for local self-government, this is not meant for the official use of language and letters by national minorities. The whole, this whole patent of our government is exclusively aimed at the city of Vukovar. There is no problem elsewhere that would be found covered by this law, this is the way the government wants to deal with the legally elected City Council of Vukovar. This is an attack by the executive authority on the results of the elections, which were held in the last elections for local self-government units. That's the problem. The government is not responding in this unit to this composition and now by law, the thing to itself is the wrong way to get rid of such an insecure city council. If this is a practice tomorrow, we can expect it to happen to someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116078	Ante Kulusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116079	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleague of the Mlakar. First of all, at the very beginning of your replica, I will point out that I support all rights of national minorities, and that is not at all questionable. However, the proposal for a conclusion which, two years ago, is a tragedy and I agree with you that this is a deal with the city council of Vukovar. Unfortunately, however, the tragedy of this government is that all it does at this time is a pre-election campaign. Because this government, thanks to its poor results in the last 3.5 years, is exactly what it's doing. Also these days we read a letter to the Prime Minister to Mr Platini about everything that happened in Split and then I am convinced that within a few days, I am convinced that they have already found the culprit and I am convinced that in a few days the culprit will say that it is a conflict or dissatisfaction with part of the Croatian Football Federation. Imagine what would happen if 60% of unsatisfactory Croatian citizens with this Croatian government came before the government and there for some stupid shop, idiotic as it was made in Split, to what it would come to. UEFA President wrote 10.10.2012 to the Croatian Government and imagine the answers. The Croatian Government's response was that because of the problems with fans and riots in Croatian stadiums, the Croatian Government is not concerned with this, but rather with the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Science, the Croatian Football Federation and the Prime Minister directed Mr Platini to address them. Whose president is he? All this leads, unfortunately this has nothing to do with Cyrillic or Latin, this is just one pre-election campaign. The government can't talk about the results of everything they've done in Croatia, plan 21...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116080	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Time. But this had nothing to do with the exposure of a colleague of the Mlakars. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116081	No matter what, you can see that it can be extended to football.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116082	Let me introduce you. Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica, for phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116083	For phonograms, colleague Kulusic here you can see that football can also be expanded and the minister of administration loves football topics. But I can see that the Prime Minister has now written in another way, that everyone is up to our tail, so that we will try to fix all the bad things that happened. You spoke in favor of that thesis, between today and tomorrow laws are passed with us, from today to tomorrow reacts to any public and it seems to me that the only thing that this government does not know how to react is good hearing. So she started with proposals on preferential voices when she heard that the public thinks it would be a good solution for the electoral law and so hearing, not always the best as counterpart Boric says or most often tries to solve problems badly. We are now witnessing that members of the government are pushing for the first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman to get an airport, to get squares, monuments and in the city of Zagreb, and we can only welcome this turn in their heads from what I remember two years ago. If that were true and it were to happen as one twist in their thinking based on real belief in what they do. I'm afraid, like you said, the campaign started for elections that we don't know when they'll be because the government won't tell us, but all this campaign and all this effort will be in vain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116084	Replica, the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116085	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Mlakar, I refer to the part where you said the government wouldn't accept the call for a conversation, etc. She didn't want it simply because she probably didn't want it politically at the time, but probably in this time here for six full months I guess she is now. Let's remember that famous us or them. And then it started, the conflicts of all who conflict can, from fascists and anti-fascists, north-South, Hajduk-Dinamo, now Croats-Serbia or Croats-national minorities. I sometimes feel like they're able to fight two flowers in a company, simply if it's politically directed to them. And why am I saying that? We amend Article 84, as stated in Article 84, in the chapter that speaks of disbanding the representative body and protecting the right to local and regional (regional) self-government. Protection of rights. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will disband the representative body at the proposal of the central government responsible for local and regional (regional) self-government: 1. If it adopts a decision or another act that threatens the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, then there are five other reasons related to certain decisions. And for all these six reasons when the government appoints a commissioner he doesn't have any authority. We are now introducing the 7th reason why the Government will disband the representative body and this reason becomes more important than the first one, if I say it makes decisions or acts that threaten the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. Where did we go? It means that this is less important to us than what is proposed today with regard to national minorities. Unfortunately, the minister didn't say anything about it. It's still going in that style of duck and mata who just can't solve the problem. Obviously, it's better to ruin the village than to disappear the customs. They like customs and they do it, but to assume this first point simply to any reasonable, it just doesn't go into my head and it's not normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116086	The line matches the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116087	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Boric, unfortunately, you have noted well, unfortunately, you have taken one of my important arguments in the criticism of this law. So far, the law knows six reasons why the municipal or city council can be disbanded. One of them is if the City Council decides against the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia and the 7th place is now a new reason for not resolving the issue of official use of the language and letters of national minorities in that unit. The Government then appoints a Commissioner who may or must make a decision on the official use of language and letter in his term, so that it is unlikely that the next meeting of the City Council will not again make a decision that corresponds to our Government. But if they decide to secede from the Republic of Croatia, the commissioner cannot make a different decision. This is proof that this is a creation in this law and that this is an ingenious idea for the government's commissioner to get powers that the government doesn't even have, to claim the right to the local self-government that we've recognised to the local self-government units. Here we call on the European Charter of Local Self-Government when it suits us. We listened to some advisory bodies that told us everything that wasn't binding. But what is binding is that we are now disbanding through the Government the representative bodies that have been elected by citizens in the legal elections, we are putting the Commissioner on them, and of all the reasons for disbanding he can only make a decision on the use of language and letters. Which is what our smart colleague would say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116088	Now they follow the lines to the presentation of the respected Josip Salapic. The first one will be carried out by Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116089	Thank you very much. Mr. Salapic, you've been talking about the fact that for almost two years now, there has been a proposal for this conclusion signed by the parliamentary representatives of all departments of course from our HDSSB club. But that's not what we discussed. And here is the decision of the Constitutional Court a year ago that we are entering the Zeitnot, and this government actually seems to have waited on purpose, and this actually deepens the further gap in ideological division and other divisions of the Croatian people and of all other citizens of Croatia. This is about arguing about what two eyes in the head have said, as Boric said in a different way, but it is indeed a skill for this government to challenge the people on a principle that is, permanently behind the referendum, such as the decision and the referendums, etc. So, us or them. That is the definition by which the government of Mr Milanovic persistently divides the Croatian people into those who are for him and for others. Who we are, who they are, that's another thing. But there is something I specifically wanted not to object to you, but to say that there are representatives of national minorities who were voted not with several thousand, but only a few hundred votes. So, I do not defie the right of national minorities and their 8 seats in the Croatian Parliament, but there are those chosen only from 300 to 500 votes. You said several thousand. There are 300 to 500 votes. There's something else I wanted to say. When we talk about the right to public, official, etc. I am convinced of the language and the letter, and I have many years to say that the right to use minority language and letters is much greater in the Republic of Croatia than in the former state in which it was ruled we know Serbian hegemony. So both in Vukovar and in all Croatia, it is quite certain that the use of minority languages and letters is especially Serbian law greater than in Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116090	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116091	Thank you, Vice President. Kola Grubisic, if two years pass from one conclusion proposal and if that proposal wishes to calm down the situation that was present in Vukovar, numerous conversations with Croatian defenders, an attempt to calm the situation two years after what you say turns out to be insulting some national minority or people to whom this conclusion applies. We have suggested that we postpone the issue of this law and the census to the next regular list when it is indeed determined, when all tensions calm down, passions, various attempts to use double rights by certain national minorities, I think we would have a much cleaner situation. Today whatever you say if someone thinks you've violated someone's constitutional right, then you consider a nationalist, you don't mean, you don't want to accept international contracts, laws or anything like that. I think our intention of our club was quite the opposite, which is to calm tensions and to include the Croatian Parliament and representatives of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this debate and problem. The Constitutional Court in its decision, except that it makes mandatory instructions for dialogue and says itself that this dialogue is sometimes uncomfortable, but if it serves well-being and if it serves the interests of Croatia it is then necessary. I believe that this bill of law, if we adopt it in this form, we will do nothing but cause new tensions. It is better to sit down, seek consensus on how we will respect the court's decision, obey the law to the end, and how we will indeed determine the ratio of the population to be re-implemented by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116092	A new replica of the esteemed Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116093	When people who are quite often called on to be legalists, they're actually telling lies, and you think they're going to fool others with that, and when they're being sued for it, they hide behind their immunity. So if they're so true and the legalists why they don't just say we're who we are and we're, we admit it, I don't need immunity. But we never said we didn't have a drink for the victims, so they're in Vukovar, so the Croats who died. But I also remind myself once again, so those who put this on us as some difficult circumstance don't talk about other victims, Serbians, and they know that there were those victims and even in Osijek. And the ablation they're talking about. I will remind you of the case before the European Court of Human Rights, the Magoch case for Osijek. You're here if you're legalists, deal with it. And as far as the census results are concerned, I'm surprised that as legalists, you haven't read the report on the work done and the funds spent on the census. I don't have time to read you a full report. I'll just read it like this. "Despite the late start of the plant, it is important to note that the State Statistics Institute published the final results of the 2011 census with the UN and EUROSTAT deadlines and that the late beginning of the processing did not in any way affect the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. So, you know, I didn't, so I interpreted it, but I read it, so if this document that you voted on wasn't right, then our obligations to the UN and EUROSTAT were not carried out in the way that they should be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116094	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Montenegrin, so here's a good thing that I got a chance to talk to you at all because from a few months ago, you and my neighbor in the bench don't even know how to say good day, and the reason is because a colleague from my club said something that doesn't suit you. So I will appeal to the Constitutional Court's decision and one opinion that the Parliament's dialogue is necessary even though he was once uncomfortable. So I'm uncomfortable sitting next to you because you can't say good day, first of all. Secondly, as far as my legal knowledge and legalism are concerned, in my debate, I have not said a single proposal that is illegal and unconstitutional because every government, including this Croatian government, has the right if there are certain indications of suspicion to seek a re-check of the census. It's nothing illegal and unconstitutional or insulting anyone's rights. And I personally advocate that everything that has happened during the various periods of the Homeland War, armed conflicts and aggression against the Republic of Serbia by the great Serb army is being investigated until the end. Even until the end, we respect the rights of those who have not sinned on Croatian laws and who today are free to be MPs in the Croatian Parliament, to sit together with us as our colleagues and to talk and act in the way you behave. But I am a legalist and I am your parliamentary mandate and your right as a national minority, and I respect the Croatian citizen of Serbian nationality. Not in any of my performances as your colleague have I violated your right or will I ever do so. But I will also not allow you or anyone to insult my intellect but neither the value of the Croatian state, the Constitution and the law for which we fought here. Well, since you came to me for the line, then you should have listened to what I said and what I said in 2013 when your esteemed colleague and representative Mr. Pupovac was first in the memory column with us in Vukovar, which I respect and appreciate. And he also demanded a minute of silence for all the victims of Vukovar which I also respected and appreciated, which exceeds the limits of my political understanding. So much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116096	New replica, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116097	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Salapic, you said in your statement that the Constitutional Court made clear recommendations that should be done by all, so the city of Vukovar and the Croatian Parliament, that is, the Croatian Government. I don't agree with that. Because if the Constitutional Court had made clear recommendations, then today we wouldn't be discussing all this again. The Constitutional Court had an obligation to decide whether or not the referendum issue was in accordance with the Constitution at the request of the Croatian Parliament. And the Constitutional Court decided that it was not in accordance with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court, however, further in its disposition, has also written that it obliges the Government to publish this decision in the National Journal within one year of the date of publication of this decision, hence the Constitutional Court Decisions, to refer to the parliamentary procedure for amending and supplementing the Act on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in which it will regulate an appropriate legal mechanism for cases where the representative bodies of the unit of local administration and self-government do not implement the obligations laid down in the Act on Official Use of Language and Letters. Thus, the Constitutional Court did not even ask for a final decision to be made within one year but for the government to refer to the procedure. What does that mean? So it's also addressed to the procedure and when will the final decision be made? You don't know. And this assembly probably won't. On the other hand, he instructed the City Council of Vukovar to prescribe, within 1 year in the Statute of the City, offices for the whole area or for certain parts of individual rights, to continue, to the extent that it does not endanger the very essence of these rights and at the same time respects the needs of the majority of Croatian people. Well, we expected the Constitutional Court to make it clear what to do. And it wouldn't be a problem if the Constitutional Court did it all the way. Finally, the Constitutional Court says it does not make political decisions, and Prof. Smerdel said in an interview that the Constitutional Court is making difficult political decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116098	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116099	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Kosor, I agree with you on the Constitutional Court Decision and the extent to which that decision went. It would have been a lot easier for us in Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, if it had been clear. However, it was not then expected that after the referendum initiative by collecting signatures, the Constitutional Court would give the green light for the signatures collected because such an climate was already created in the public. But some of the existing laws that were we as lawyers had doubts about what the question should look like. But what I'm going to say, more importantly, is not even the number of people who signed it, it's a large number of citizens. There is already a problem with this, therefore, that a large number of Croatian citizens, the citizens of the Croatian people think that certain issues should be reconsidered in Croatia. It has nothing to do with any policy or government until now. It is known that our obligation was when Croatia joined the EU, what was the obligation when it was created by the state, to join the UN, the NATO Pact, etc. But by the Constitutional Court decisions, often so far not only in this case, there were still decisions in certain cases, which were and could be interpreted differently. Well, we're coming into a big problem, we're in a teat with time, we don't agree with the bill that came. If we accept such a solution again we will cause a certain misunderstanding, and perhaps riots there in those parts and units of local self-government concerned by this law. So unfortunately, we do not have the mechanisms to call upon the Constitutional Court in which the scope of our decision should be made, but I fully agree with you that this decision on the issue of the referendum issue and the developments in Vukovar should have been much clearer. It would be much easier for us, and this still opens up space for various manipulations of political and similar. I also doubt the good intentions of the government that went this way to solve the problem, 5 to 12, and then the hot potato, the situation in Vukovar, shifts to someone else. It is much easier to transfer responsibility to another than to bear the consequences of your political decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116100	Followed by the replica of Kresimir Bubal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116101	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Salapic, namely the Constitutional Court understands life problems and deep individual, collective traumas of the citizens of the City of Vukovar who root their roots from the devastating Serbian aggression on the City of Vukovar in the conquering war on Croatian territory. Namely, there is a declaration of the Homeland War brought to the Croatian Parliament, National No. 102 of 2000. And from severe evils toward his inhabitants. The Constitutional Court understands that, we expect the government to understand that, but also the SDSS. Namely, I'll remind you that a few years ago, the SDSS was intruding the street or Joseph Kemenji's promenade in the distance, so they wanted to change the name and that's the man who was brutally killed at the police station in the Far away. Thank God that didn't happen. We must certainly be aware of the fact that there is aggression in Croatia, but we must be aware of the fact that there is also a dialogue in the Parliament but also in Vukovar. Therefore, this government must understand but also those who advocate something else. In Vukovar, a census is needed and it is clear that the HDSSB stands firmly on what it signed when we went to calm down the tensions in Vukovar but it must be understood by the government at the moment. Nothing can be done by force or disbanding local administration units when someone likes it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116102	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116103	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, you have been mayor of Osijek-Baranja County and you know well that in Erdut municipality where even after the Homeland War for many years the right of the Serb national minority and this is the right to bilingual tables and use language and so on and there has never been a problem there. You know why? Because these postwar circumstances in our county were completely different compared to the problem of peaceful reintegration of laws that required forgiveness for all those who participated in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia and also compared the City of Vukovar with any circumstances and put it within the context of this bill as if Vukovar were equal to all others and we know that it is not. Let us remember Sinisha Glavasevic, and all that he was experiencing, and wrote about the last days of his suffering. How many years will it take to forget that no one can know, but one reasonable proposal that came from 52 representatives of the Croatian Parliament, which is to postpone the application of the law on time to the next census was reasonable, and the dialogue we asked for with all was reasonable, but this mistrust in good intentions came about that we have been waiting 2 years to discuss it. And I will repeat what I said by explaining this proposal if we ever get a chance to participate in the Croatian government we will ask that the population be re-enlisted in the disputed units of local self-government, to review the Law on residence and how the residence serves certain Croatian citizens regardless of who it is and what nationality it is to use rights that do not belong to them. And we will ask Croatia to be a country that respects all rights, all national minorities but not to the detriment of the majority Croatian people. We've suffered a lot in the Homeland War and these years that whatever you say and want to protect someone thinks you're a nationalist, xenophobe, which I know from now on. We will be citizens of Croatia all equal by all rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116104	The last replica of the respected Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116105	Dear counterpart Salapic, in your presentation, you said that you presented a key thesis on this Cyrillic story in Vukovar. No one here is against the rights of national minorities, and I think they are arranged in Croatia as anywhere in the world. But you said a key sentence that right must not affect the rights of the majority people, and the right of the majority people and the collective consciousness of the Croatian people of Vukovar will always remain in reflection on thinking in that way with those facts that happened there. We'll always have that black flag with the head of the dead that says "death" on it. They'll always be in our memory of that column. They'll always be the bones that were dug up on the Sheep. And I don't think even the members of the Serb people in Vukovar should out of that respect for that victim and everything that happened there insist that bilingual inscriptions be placed in this way. Respecting everything else, all their rights but the right of the majority people in this case when we talk about Cyrillic in Vukovar must not be harmed and no one is against Cyrillic it is a historical letter as well as a verb, but in Vukovar it has special meaning. And I personally have never had a Cyrillic letter written there. 97.When after the peaceful reintegration of the street that was until before the war of Stjepan Radic was written on the Cyrillic board, it still stood for a year, two after the reintegration was renamed to the street of Punisa Račića the man who killed him. And no one can erase it, not just to the citizens of Vukovar, but to all of us and down the coast, Istria, islands, everyone is a picture of this Vukovar in our hearts, in our heads. Out of respect for these victims, according to everything that's happened there, all these discussions are groundless.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116106	Time. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116107	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, we fully understand this because we now 2 years after those sad events in Vukovar had to open the topic today by force of the Parliament Presidency's decision, and I think we should have opened it much earlier. Nothing will be done with this bill, it will be much worse than expected. The information came to us when the problem was under consideration, when we handed over in 2013 this conclusion by Croatian citizens of Serbian nationalities living in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County and the City of Vukovar, these are people who are not burdened with any past, but live in Croatia, work, have completed schools here in our Croatian language, have learned Croatian history, these are our friends and neighbours where they say it is important to work like all other Croatian citizens, their children are free to study, have all the freedoms as well as any other and have themselves said that the problem of bilingual tables, the way in which they were set up overnight was not necessary because we should guarantee all those rights that we guaranteed within the borders of the Croatian government, and that is the Croatian government of HDZ at that time and the government of this majority coalition fulfilled. Was it necessary to provoke Croatian defenders in such a way? Was there any need to beat up defenders by the Croatian police? Let's think of the defender who ended up with half a broken head in the hospital and all those tensions that were on the day of the memorial column, that's something that could have been avoided. And if our proposal had been accepted then there would be neither today's debate nor the Constitutional Court's decision, nor the signing of a referendum, nor the negative tensions, nor anything. We'd just postponing a 10-year problem that would solve a new census. Much easier than this opening of old stories today, old wounds and the misunderstandings of some colleagues who think that everything you or I say is going to harm national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, which is not true at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116108	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Honorable Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 89th session held on 6 July 2015 discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. The Committee discussed the draft laws on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. It is also pointed out that, in view of Article 83(1), it is necessary to adopt the law. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia requires a two-thirds majority of the votes of all MPs and there is no need for the adoption of an emergency procedure law, and given the matter to be regulated by it. Furthermore, during the debate, it was noted that avoiding the two-thirds majority for adoption wanted to introduce a deregulation of the rights of national minorities, which is the continuity of some political parties in Croatia, and any attempt to bring the law governing the language and letter of national minorities to most different from the two-thirds would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously supported both drafts of the law and in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament since the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System discusses the principles of protection and implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia established human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rights of the National Minorities Committee has reached the following conclusion: "The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia is being adopted by a majority of two-thirds of the votes of all MPs." The Committee also unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion, "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the Proposal for a Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government will be implemented on a regular basis". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116110	The views of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities will be presented to us by respected Melita Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116111	Thank you, Vice President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 70th session held on 3 July 2015 the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal for a Law. The Committee considered the final draft law as a parent working body, and the debate was held together with the debate on the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, with the Final Proposal for a Law. The debate pointed out that the Law on the Equal Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia brought the Croatian Assembly two-thirds of the majority of the 11th of May 2000 in accordance with the provisions of Article 83(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which determines that organic laws governing the rights of national minorities are adopted by the Croatian Parliament by a two-thirds majority. Therefore, the members of the Committee are of the opinion that, in accordance with the same constitutional provision, this bill should be adopted by a two-thirds majority. In addition to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, two-thirds of the majority were passed the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities. Other laws which, in some cases and to a greater extent, developed certain rights of national minorities were passed by the majority of the votes of all MPs that this would also be the case with the proposed amendments to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia of the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. The debate highlights the date of the Constitutional Court's decision that the applicant had sufficient time to carry out public hearings on the proposed laws in accordance with the public consultation code in the procedures for the adoption of laws, regulations and other acts, and not that such important laws were adopted by an urgent procedure and without the debate in which the interested public would participate. The opinion has been expressed that over the past year it has been necessary to keep up with the attitudes that have caused divisions and unrest in society over the past few years. As it is said, it is particularly important to approach problems that arise in order to avoid redistribution and mistrust of the part of citizens in the way they are implemented or interpreted in the current rules governing the rights of national minorities. It also draws attention to certain parts of the Constitutional Court’s decision, which point out that when resolving these issues, it takes care of the respect for the real situation in certain local environments. As pointed out, the objective of the proposed legislative changes should be a permanent solution to the problem, not its re-emphasis and opening up space for new oppositions. In this respect, the proposal submitted to review the provision of Article 2. Amendment and addition of the Law on the area and local (regional) self-government on the disbanding of the representative body of the municipality, the city, the county, if the representative body does not regulate the rights of national minorities by means of a general act or regulates them contrary to specific rules governing the rights of national minorities. The opinion is that the proposed measure is too harsh since it is a matter of disbanding the representative body elected by citizens in the elections. It is proposed to consider the possibility of a higher level body to decide, instead of a lower level body which does not carry out the necessary compliance with the applicable legal provisions, which is known in the legal systems as the right of evolution within the specified time limit. The debate also noted that the state system can only be regulated by law and law enforcement. According to the Republic of Croatia, many laws have been passed in the last 20 years, agreements such as the Erdut Agreement, the statutes of cities and municipalities that have played a significant role in the peaceful reintegration process during the day of history and in which the decision-making was largely part political actors who are now in a position to decide. In addition to the possible politicisation of this issue, there are no other reasons for the decisions contrary to those for which they have voted before. It is pointed out that it is important in the proposed laws to lay down measures for the non-implementation of legal provisions in order not to delay or implement the law's opposite intentions indefinitely. When it comes to the equal use of the language and letters of national minorities, it is pointed out that 27 units of local self-government are obliged to prescribe by the statute of equal use of the language and letters of national minorities. Of which 10 units of local self-government in its statutes specified this use, 11 only partially and 5 did not do it in any way. As pointed out, the law is not implemented in a number of units of local self-government and the legislator must therefore provide for appropriate measures to resolve this situation and ensure that the law is implemented. After the debate was held, the Committee decided by majority vote, 7 votes for and 1 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia. And he also decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament by a majority of votes with 7 votes for and 1 abstentions to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116112	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First we'll spend it on clubs that have 20 minutes at their disposal. The first in line are Croatian Labourists and Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. So the reason for the proposal and discussion and the adoption of these two draft laws is the Constitutional Court decision of August last year when they decided on a referendum initiative and on that occasion, on that decision, the Constitutional Court gave two domestic tasks. The first homework is the City Council of Vukovar to establish, regulate and regulate the use, the right of national minorities to use languages and letters in the statutes. Another domestic task referred to the Government as proposing within a year to the Parliament to amend the law in that area where there were no regulations, or provisions that would happen if a local self-government did not comply with that law, so what measures are available to the Government for the implementation of that law. Of course, the decision of the Constitutional Court and the referendum initiative and this Law are also in the memory of the problem of placing plates in the city of Vukovar, bilingual boards or board in Cyrillic and Serbian language in the city of Vukovar. I remind and must remind myself of this in the course of the negotiations, the accession of Croatia to the European Union when we received reports on negotiations and completion, the closure of chapters 23 and 24 in Croatia, all were proud to point out that Croatia, in its legislative framework, in the Constitution and the law, has a good regulation on the protection of the rights of national minorities. This has often been used as one of the points of example where, if I am not mistaken, Europe, the other side has absolutely no standards. At that time, no one in Croatia, nor in the Croatian Parliament, was any provision of these laws disputed because we were heading towards Europe. Then we entered Europe and opened up the problem of respecting the part of the law that we were all proud of back then. The Law on the Rights of National Minorities is from 2002, the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities is from 2000. And in this House was adopted by a two-thirds majority. If there is a will, I would also say political wisdom in the City Council of Vukovar which has until mid-August to regulate the issue of these amendments and additions to the law can make it possible for those who will never, ever, ever have to apply to anyone. I know there are a few other municipalities or cities that haven't been regulated by the statutes, but after these changes and additions, they probably won't need rushes. And I think it's just the decision of the city council and the alignment of the statutes with the law that's a turning point or a point to which those who haven't yet done it will be treated. Therefore, the Constitutional Court gave the instructions, so it did not only order you to have to but it gave a guide to the fact that, in the statutes, this right of the national minority should be regulated by the conduct of Article 6. The law on the language and letter of national minorities, in the use of language and letter of national minorities and in the spirit of Article 8. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. If we carefully read article 6. The law on the use of language and letter of national minorities as a whole, a better draft of possible constitutional provisions that the City Council in Vukovar could adopt could not be written to them. And in the Constitutional Court's decision to repeal Article 22. The Statute of the City of Vukovar is given another instruction that is approximately, please read again paragraphs 28 to 30.3 of the Constitutional Court's decision on a referendum. You see from that point 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, decisions of the Constitutional Court practically give guidance to the City Council of Vukovar or to us in the Assembly where they clearly stated the personal rights of national minorities relating to the right to address and receive the authorities of state authorities and legal persons with public authority, I speak briefly for the sake of time, as well as the right of members of national minorities to obtain public documents in their language and letter, no one can deny, delay or make them in any other way impregnable. This is paragraph 30.1 of the Constitutional Court Decision. In point 30.2 of the Constitutional Court states as regards the other rights of national minorities under that same law, where the law provides for and the statutes to regulate the regulated part of them in such a way that it does not apply to the whole area of the city or the municipality, that it applies in part, and if a delay in the application of that right is required by a clearly understood provision. So it can't, it doesn't apply until further notice, but rather a provision that is clear and understandable to everyone. When we mentioned the political will and wisdom of the City Council of Vukovar, this same message refers to the HDZ as a party that holds power here in the Parliament and in the city of Vukovar. And if there is indeed political wisdom by solving this problem in the Statute of the City of Vukovar, the second reading of these laws will pass in a completely different atmosphere. The amendments to this law require a 2/3 parliament's decision because it was adopted by 2/3 of the majority. It is about the first reading, and therefore my second part of the debate is dedicated to the time that will pass between the first and second readings. An attempt to reach 2/3 of the majority. So we have a problem that we won't solve by passing the law ourselves. We can pass the law, but we will obviously not be able to implement it without the same problems that we will not be able to implement. That's what I hope everyone's aware of now. And that's why three proposals to the legislator. The first concerns the provisions on the disbanding of the representative body. It is clear to me that the threat of disbandment is very effective, I just remind you that until we have introduced the disbandment if we do not call a referendum of the local, few who have called the local referendum, so when the disbandment of any representative body has no longer refused to call a civil referendum. But on the other hand, it's the most rigorous measure. There is a possibility that in this case we can use the mechanism or institute of the higher competent authority in two degrees. It's an offer to discuss and agree to reach a 2/3 majority when voting on the law, if you understand me. An offer to the promoter because I hope someone will try to raise the 2/3 majority, whether the executive power or here in parliament, whatever. So we know that there are these two options, there are both measures which are envisaged or available reasons for or against. Of course, the most rigorous measure always gives the most effect. Secondly, both laws of the deadlines for the harmonisation of acts are foreseen by 3 months. I've watched all the organic laws so far and always, in all the organic laws, Mr. Minister of Time, we've given six months of adjustments. Think about it as a proposer, I know there's already been a lot of deadlines for 3 months or 6 months, but by sticking to the principles that the adjustments to the implementation of organic laws we've always had 6 months, that's what we're doing this time. And our third proposal, so perhaps it will be really unnecessary and completely passable after the adoption of statutes or amendments and additions to the statutes of the City of Vukovar. Vukovar is in Croatia a symbol of suffering, suffering, destruction, crimes for which unfortunately no one was responsible. A symbol of heroism in defense, resistance to the occupier, spite and defiance. And for that and for these reasons every year in Vukovar is a column of memories and on that one day of the year we honor that city and all those who defended it. But I would ask that these feelings that we have in the memory column be present when we are discussing and in particular prepare the texts of the law for a second reading present to all of us who will eventually participate in the attempt to obtain a two-thirds majority. So, not only when we're in a column in Vukovar, but when we're passing legal regulations. And I therefore put a third proposal on the table specifically reads: "Article 8(2). The law on the use of language and letter of national minorities applies to those who do not know about the plates of local and regional self-government. Article 10(1), (2) and (3) are the traffic signs written by means of the name of the street and the place." And the provision of Article 18(2), point 2., shortened the writing plates of the body of the state authority, which I often agree with, in fact, classify in the category of manifesto law. Therefore, the special provision of laws in the city of Vukovar or part of the city of Vukovar regulates their application with a time-limit of a precise law. It is not possible to postpone or not apply the existing legal provision, such as the proposal that is being discussed today. It cannot be decided by the Government that one provision of the law does not apply. A delay with an exact deadline as indicated in its decision can only be made by the Constitutional Court by the Croatian Parliament by a provision in the law and by no other means by our position. These are three suggestions that are in the spirit of Article 8. Law on the right of national minorities and decision of the Constitutional Court of August last year in point 30.2. And we give them to the best of intentions and faith that after the first reading of the party represented in the Assembly, I will not say a consensus because it is impossible, but at least a two-thirds majority. And I am aware that these suggestions of ours will be experienced or caused by dissatisfaction, criticism, and false interpretation. But they only have one goal. When we pass laws in the second reading, and if we don't get and we don't make 2/3 of most changes to the law, there won't be any of this about the use of language. Of course, there remains the possibility that this issue can continue to be used, especially in the election campaign, to continue to be used in the homogenisation of its electoral body on one, the other, the third or fifth sides, regardless. Only because of the acquisition of political profits. However, when we are in a situation where we need to regulate legislation and when we are aware that the application of these provisions we will adopt will continue to cause resistances and problems, then the attempt to achieve a two-thirds majority here in the Assembly is more than 50% of the guarantee that such an agreement will also be reached in the city of Vukovar. Let us not only ask them to do so if we do not try to achieve it here in the Croatian Parliament. So I repeat. Maybe this proposal won't be necessary in the fall. If it is settled in the Statute of the City of Vukovar in a way that no one finds grounds for dispute, the Constitutional Court shall confirm that the Statute is in conformity with the law. But if that's not the way it's gonna be, then we're gonna have to decide. If that's how we pass the law, we adopt it, we apply it, and then what? One day they will set up the tablets, and the next day they will break the other. What have we done with that? Unfortunately, in an unfortunate way, we have come to an opportunity or position that we must decide by thinking personally that the existing provisions of the law are enough for that. And this would not be the first time a legal right, not to be reduced, not to be abolished, not to be banned, but to postpone its application by legal standard for a certain period of time with a clearly defined deadline. So, term, terms that won't be able to be interpreted differently and be clear to everyone. And if someone in the House starts talks and attempts to agree before the second reading or in the second reading, I believe that there will be conditions for such a bill to get two-thirds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116114	We're moving on to replicas. First respected Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116115	Thank you very much. As you do, I am convinced that this Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities should be adopted, i.e. it should be amended according to the procedure under which it was adopted, means that it requires a two-thirds majority. And that is why I think we will not pass this law because in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the majority will not be able to be reached. It's good to go to regular procedure, but it doesn't matter. At first, however, you reminded yourself of a time when reports in Brussels almost had to be sent daily, not because we had to, but because the decision was the last major strategic decision of both the Croatian people and most of the parties, certainly parliamentary parties, to join the EU. And yes, you said exactly that one of the questions that has been asked daily is the question of the rights of national minorities. That this is what he says and the fact here is the introductory letter written by Mr. Vladimir Seks, then chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Mr. Vladimir Seks means 16 June 2010 which he wrote by explaining what we have changed in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, writes Mr. Seks, supplementing the original grounds by citing all national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. So, we decided then that in the original basis originally written by President Tudjman we would appoint all and name all national minorities and we wrote among other things, it was a consensus, so we changed the Constitution, so that the Republic of Croatia established itself as a national state of Croatian peoples and members of national minorities, and then all minorities were cited as guaranteeing equality of citizens of Croatian ethnicity and the achievement of national rights in accordance with the democratic norms of the UN organisation and the countries of the free world. So, yes, it was a question and, of course, the return of refugees who demanded considerable funding from the state budget. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116116	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116117	My colleague Kosor, that's why I apostropheed it. Something that in Croatia in 2000, 2009, 2010, throughout Croatia's EU accession negotiations, when HDZ was also in power, in 2013, 2014, 2015, becomes a problem so that we cannot achieve the constitutional majority that we can do something about it. This simply shows that the desire to acquire and homogenize a political body and gain profits from that conflict is not proud of those to whom it was proud until yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116118	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116119	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Lesar, what you have said about the city of Vukovar as a heroic city and the city of the destruction of the Croatian people in the Homeland War, I absolutely support it. It is also your initiative that those who participate in the memory column participate in solving problems in the city of Vukovar. That's also a positive and human well said. The problem will not be solved by this first reading of the law, and it will be difficult to collect the two-thirds majority, but that proposal that you made, which is your third proposal, is that also on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, which says that there is a law-making obligation within a year whether for the entire area of the city of Vukovar or for certain parts of the city of Vukovar from the Constitutional Court, the city of Vukovar can be excluded from such legal solutions or those that will be passed in the autumn. So that delay in the application that is in accordance with the law would be welcome and I think it would go in a good direction towards collecting a two-thirds majority for this law. That's good. And it's also good that at a certain point it reacts quickly. That's why we made this conclusion two years ago, knowing that we can't change the law with our own act, but we have obliged the Government to interpret Article 8. Law on the rights of national minorities not to be interpreted at the expense of the majority Croatian people. And also committed to delaying the application of Article 7 which means that it can only be done by law and not by our act. We wanted to prevent a new crisis that was then in Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116120	Replication response, dear Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116121	Yes, colleague Salapic. Indeed, no conclusion can delay the application of any law. It is simply inconclusive by neither the Constitution nor the Rules of Procedure, and that is why I have said that it must then be a provision in the law. Your proposal for a conclusion suffers from another problem, which you obviously didn't notice, you used the term up to the regular census, until the results of the census were published, then that's something you clearly know? You're expressing doubt that you won't get two-thirds for this change. I'm still hoping you'll listen carefully to all the suggestions you've made and put on the table, see where the greatest common denominator is to try to get to that. But on one condition, that no right of members of national minorities anywhere in Croatia is derrogated, abolished, reduced, threatened. That's the meaning of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116122	New replica, dear Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116123	Thank you. My colleague Lesar ma you have intrigued me as probably the Croatian public with this proposal of yours, if I understand you well, so you suggest that the law as proposed be accepted, and then to pass another law that would delay the application of parts of this law refers to the right of national minorities to use and use their own language or use that language in the way proposed in this law. I have to admit it a little vaguely. So, you would like to pass the law but to pass another law at the same time that says this law is not now but with a delay in this part. Well, it's kind of weird for me, I don't see any reason why he wouldn't take it this way and why the HDZ and the opposition wouldn't vote for him. In 2002, we together passed a law that was about the same regulation with the support of everyone. Because it seems to me that kind of thing that would be said in Dalmatia on a bocuna stove is the adoption of certain rights that come from some law is strange and not quite common. In Mexico are official 63 languages, not only Spanish but 62 other languages of all ethnic communities... As you wish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it works. I don't see any reason to diminish what's already been achieved in some way. In other words, HDZ itself passed such laws and local levels, etc. solutions, i.e. That's why I'm in some kind of a dilemma, so maybe you'd better explain it to me. It sounds a little bit strange to me like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116124	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116125	Dear colleague, buenos dias. So you really misunderstood me. Given the limited time of reply to the replica, I will try to say briefly that I did not propose any special law, but in the preparation of this Law on Language, Use and Language and the letter of national minorities to install such a provision. What HDZ thinks and directions don't say to me at all, don't mention other parties to me when you're half-limizing with me. You can take me personally or our party. But in order to understand what I am proposing and how much constitutional water it holds, I suggest you take the Constitutional Court's decision into your hands from last year's 14th August, page 21, paragraph 30, which clearly states that such a possible provision can also be incorporated into the Statute of the municipalities and the city. So, I'm not an authorised interpreter of the Constitutional Court's decision since you guys have great lawyers in the club, they'll probably help you read that page of the 21st Constitutional Court decision and then you'll probably understand me and so I didn't propose any special law to postpone the application of this law adopted by the Parliament by a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116126	The last replica of the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in your discussion, you called for wisdom, and surely you should have called for wisdom at the same time that those records were set up, then during the night after dark and then came to what had come. But another thing, and this moment of me, I can't help but think that this law simply wants to allow the disbanding of the representative body of local regional self-government. I can't do that, and it doesn't kind of encourage me that it would be wise because simply here is the representative of the Human Rights Committee who said that this commissioner has been set too hard, that he's set too hard and I believe that they're simply not even a proposing in that work, I don't believe, but simply trying to rock and co-operate the terrain. But the other thing, you were talking about feelings, it was another thing, and surely these people survived the most severe trauma and experienced stress. And the question is, what's the number of post-traumatic stress disorder? And every incident and every incentive and Cyrillic we know how much it is in that work, how much it can cause such a one condition, and surely it should also be thought with wisdom and respect the feelings of those who have experienced such severe trauma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116128	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116129	My colleague Milinkovic, when I used the word wisdom among other things, I had in mind that the results would not be possible if we said in advance we would not talk about it, we will not even try to make an effort to ensure that the Parliament provides a two-thirds majority for the text agreed on for the second reading. For starters on that wisdom, I thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116130	The Minister of Administration, Mr Arsen Bauk, has now called for a word on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116131	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Given the business provisions, I couldn't react to the applicant on behalf of a group of MPs, so I can only do it now. So, as far as Mr. Mlakar's thesis is concerned, in his presentation, which is that this is a deal with the city council and with the city authority that we don't understand as we speak. I would remind you that in 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia dealt with the City Council of Vukovar. She disbanded the City Council of Vukovar because it did not comply with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, or because one Serbian Nationality Councilman was not appointed. So then really the government dealt with them, with the city council because they did not respect the rights of national minorities, and it was not appointed because it was not clear that the presidents of the city council whether the Serb should be from the SDP list or from the SDSS list, and then instead of having the exact interpretation disbanded the council. From this perspective, it may seem a little strange, but it really really mattered whether it was between SDP and SDSS because the SDP was on one side, and the SDSS was with HDZ, so let's just remind ourselves of the disbanding of the city council. And then you didn't have anything to do with the will of the citizens because the citizens chose one mayor and the city council. So then the election came, and then it was the second composition of the city council. As far as I'm concerned, I can't tell you that you were wrong because the court gave the government the right to do so by the Constitutional Court, so there was no legal problem in that context. Therefore, if the president of any city council complains about the government's decision, any government court will decide again and only then can elections be called. Therefore, there is no problem if the government does what is right and the legal court will... give for law and defense. The second thesis is that a new list should be implemented. What does that have to do with wounds? What will be less if the Serb in Vukovar turns out to be 20%? It won't or it'll be bigger if it turns out to be 40? The same won't happen. I wouldn't link it to each other. The census was carried out in 2011 at a time when it was in power of government, which was made by most HDZ members, the result of the census was noted, based on this law but also the Law on local elections where we defined in which units of local self-government members of minorities or members of Croatian peoples have the right to mayors, mayors or council members in city and municipal councils and county parliaments. In some applied cases, the census results gave fewer rights than the list of voters the government passed for the 2009 elections used as a basis. But we have taken the view that the census is a census or survey that has been in the same state for 10 years and the next three election cycles know which part of the legal rights are defined. As far as the claim is concerned, I think it was Mr Klaric, that the rights are prescribed as anywhere, if I have said so well, so the recommendation of the Council of Europe Committee on the application of the European Charter on a Regional and Minority Issue in the Republic of Croatia is to review the existing legal threshold for the official use of the language and letters of national minorities. So a recommendation is proposed, but the same as the claim that anyone anywhere can be considered the same as a recommendation or assessment. It's about the same level. Only to make a second opinion available to the Croatian public on this, therefore, in some EU countries, that threshold is higher than 33% as it is in Croatia, and in some other countries it is lower. So, as part of this debate, what Mr. Lesar predicted could also be put on the table to reduce the threshold for official use of language and letter. And thirdly, the existing Article 24. The Law on the Use of Language and Letters and Article 23 also empowers someone to impose direct application instead of the City Council. And here's what I'm gonna do when I get another chance to explain these things to the commissioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116132	You'll get a chance very soon because... replicas. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] The first one will be taken out by Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you're discussing with me and my thesis with total worthless arguments. First, the finding that the government does not correspond to the composition of the Vukovar City Council has nothing to do with the fact that the government has previously disbanded the municipal and city councils. Is, under the law, you even confirmed that mainly in disputes she managed to prove that she was legally disbanding the city council. I did not talk about the time of your colleagues' previous mandates, let's say fellow Anticevic-Marinović, nor do I think it will help us. You are a different and different authority, and I understood from that talk better than the one before. But what's more, and to which you have no arguments, I've never proposed laws that would introduce new reasons for disbanding councils because I didn't fit their composition. And you're making a bill of law that's exactly what you're doing. You are disbanding the City Council of the City of Vukovar, appointing the Government Commissioner, the Government Commissioner, instead of the City Council, brings acts that the Government has placed in his jurisdiction, without having the right to bring or to check them to others. That was my thesis. This whole other thing you've been saying about illustration may be convenient, but I'd stay away from these comparisons earlier, especially when they don't work out for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116134	Minister Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116135	So now I'm going to try a comparison that comes in handy. So if you've confirmed that you've proposed disbanding the council in accordance with the law, then if such a law were passed and the other divorce was in accordance with the law. ... That's right, Mr. Shucker's here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The situation is next, and this is that one body was elected by the citizens by law, which was passed by another body chosen by the citizens, and it was ordered by him or her in some constitutional hierarchy that the body had been deafened and not implemented. And now all we can say is what is the appropriate mechanism to implement it. If disbanding is too severe a sanction and if it can be predicted and you would support it, in that case, that the authority of the senior body in the first degree is the County Assembly and, in the second degree, the Government to do so instead of that body, it is a proposal to consider and to legitimately discuss and perhaps accept it. If this is a proposal that nobody does, then we haven't completed the Constitutional Court's task because we haven't found a mechanism that would solve it if a representative body said they obstructed law enforcement. Only if it is acceptable for the Croatian Parliament to obstruct a body's violation of the law can we put into the law a proposal to extend the mandate to those bodies who obstruct the implementation of the law for the award, so that we can reward them in this way. It's a possible solution, I'm not sure it would pass and it would be constitutional but it could be discussed accordingly. And, of course, as far as the commissioners are concerned, the trustee would really not have the authority of the government but the Commissioner would have the exact powers that the Croatian Parliament would give him by law. Unless it's the Commissioner, it could be any other body.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116136	Second replica, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116137	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I hope you will agree with me that this period of time of 2 years since September 2013 is not very good until today. So as I was saying and you commented on what the population list has to do with the wounds of the Homeland War, I would remind you, given that your government responded on October 10, 2013 and this was submitted on September 17th, and we are discussing this in 2015, it is no wonder that you were executed because in our conclusion, the proposal for a conclusion is proposed to the Government to resolve the possibility of delaying the application of Article 7 of the Law. It is also applicable after the next regular census, which is 10 years later. Since the situation was very critical back then in Vukovar, tensions were at the highest possible level, we wanted to prevent international conflicts and we proposed an urgent debate and conclusion. So now to comment on what the census has to do with the list of the population and the wounds of Vukovar and everything else you said doesn't make sense since it's been over two years since the problem that was current at the time. And if there really was a will to solve the problem then at least at the Croatian Parliament in 2013 we would be discussing it. And there would also have been no government proceedings if it hadn't been for the signing of the Vukovar Defence Staff or the Constitutional Court would have been involved in this problem if it hadn't been for those signatures. And the government wouldn't have reacted at all if it hadn't been for this situation, which was created over the past two years. So that's where we all have to be realistic. I agree that we need to address the problem in view of the Constitutional Court's decision and the need of the citizens of Vukovar and I believe that we will go towards fully this Constitutional Court decision, that there is a possibility that certain parts of Croatia or the unit of local self-government, the town of Vukovar or certain parts of the city of Vukovar are exempt from the application of the law that we hope to bring to the two-thirds majority in due time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116138	Mr. Arsen Bauk is responding to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116139	If I did and got executed, then it's not because it's been a long time but I misunderstood you, namely you said that in case you were involved in the future government you'd be looking for a census, then it really doesn't matter if we discussed this in 2013, 2015, when we're talking about future time. In that context, I was talking about the census. So I don't see that the wounds would be less if the new list showed that it's 32.99%, and then we'd all take a break because there's no legal requirements, so we don't have to deal with it anymore. So in that context, it turns out that in 2002, in one third we brought a fig in our pocket in the hope that it would not be implemented. So I don't know if anyone was at the time discussing the fact that it's close to that in Vukovar and if someone in 2002 had come up with something that might have happened. Namely, even in the 2002 census, the percentage of members of the Serb national minority fell below one third because the Croatian people's contingent included people living outside Vukovar, refugees or exiles or were temporarily located somewhere, I'm not sure if I used the exact term. A thousand and some residents, I think. Without those thousands of people, it would also be over 33%, and then maybe the current law would look different. But I wouldn't trouble the question any more, the question of the list. The next list will be 2021. Based on it, it will be made again or decisions will not be made. And what we have now, we have the Law on the Use of Language and Letters, we have the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, we have guidelines and decisions of the Constitutional Court and Article 8, which may be the basis for certain parts of the City, certain rights to be prescribed in a different way than would be prescribed in some other cities in the Republic of Croatia. But there can be no basis to exclude everything and fully that has so far been the main challenge of the misunderstandings that were in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116140	Thank you. The last replica of the respected Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116141	Mr. Minister yes, I said and I hold on to it that the rights of minorities in Croatia are much greater than anywhere in our environment and that is the fact that it is. And the one who said that has a different opinion, maybe he was among those who were in '91. when Croatia was attacked made decisions about the arms embargo that we could defend ourselves or was among those who handed over to Serbs and Chetniks thousands of pieces of silver to be slaughtered and rebuked there. He's got different opinions like that. But I personally don't see any difference here between Serbs, Croats or any nationality here in our country. I think we're all the same. And we all have the same rights and we all have the same economic problems, and instead of dealing with them, we deal here with the Cyrillic in Vukovar. But those rights, that's what Mr. Salapic said, and that's what I'm saying again here and again in one replica, the rights that have these minorities must not penetrate the rights of the majority people. And the right of the majority people is that Vukovar sees as a victim, that he has feelings for her, and that symbol that we are discussing here offends people because under that symbol they were murdered, tortured, slaughtered, burned, destroyed a city. And that's my opinion and I'm holding on to it, and that's what he thinks most of the Croatian people believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116142	Minister Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116143	Whether or not the ministers of the Council of Europe were among those who introduced the embargo or handed over those who were under the protection of the UN in Srebrenica, I really don't know, but I don't think so. It's been enough years to get... I know that some in Croatian politics are eternal, but as far as other countries' policies are concerned, over the past 25 years, the political structure has changed, and that they have had some very wrong estimates during the 1990s and the situation in the former Yugoslavia is an unequivocal and uncontestable fact. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As far as your replica is concerned, it is not true that we have the rights that are prescribed as anywhere, so somewhere there are higher rights, somewhere there are smaller rights, we are among those countries that have well-prescribed rights, which are a little bit of damage in implementation, but in general it is not... that is why laws of this kind are passed to the 2/3 majority, which means that they are the fruit of a broad debate and a certain compromise, and in Croatia it still seems to be a compromise between the two groups of Croats to agree on how to prescribe the rights of national minorities, not the compromise of the majority people and national minorities. But we'll do well once I guess, as your president said, after two generations when we all love Croatia equally, I guess that's how we'll handle it. As for other topics, it's a symbol under which certain cities were destroyed, and I don't see a link there again. The official letter of the army that destroyed that city was Latin so that it didn't really stand, and I'm not offended by the Cyrillic letter or any other letter, and it didn't insult your party colleagues in 2009 when they changed the status of the City of Vukovar so it seems to me to be a fictional subject, but maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116144	On behalf of the promoter, 5 minutes Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the promoter of our conclusion quite mature, two years ago, I would like to say once again, this topic is too important a subject to banalise it with such discussions. I don't mean to be a doctor, but it seems like it's neither the place nor the time to treat jokes with such an important question. I'll try to focus your attention once more on what we talked about. In 2013, in our recent past, everything that we would have wished had never happened, which is that the government violently implemented its view of the law under the auspices of putting signboards on institutions in the City of Vukovar, caused a revolution of the people of Vukovar, which ended with some calming and conversation, but also carried its habitual victims. People were hospitalized in a hospital with severe injuries but he carried this unkind weather and victims to relations between Croats and Serbs in Vukovar. This was a motive to give Parliament a conclusion two years ago and to propose an urgent debate so that the government would commit itself to taking all the measures envisaged by law for the consistent application of Article 8. The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and to postpone the application of the rights referred to in Article 7(1). Constitutional law regarding the establishment of bilingual inscriptions, not to read any further. Put that conclusion on the intervention of MPs in the context of that time, and let us not talk about it today as a commendable idea that has waited two years for its realization in the Parliament and welcomed it because the government has now remembered to edit the issue in its own way. At the same time, we will take the opportunity to say once again, that conclusion contained everything that seemed to be burdening everyday normal life in Vukovar. That conclusion had a deep background in the war destruction of the city of Vukovar and in everything that has not happened today that Vukovar would resuscitate as many war wounds and war destructions as possible. To date, our government has not said anything about the border issues concerning the City of Vukovar and the border on the Danube, no one has mentioned the issue of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia over, say, the werewolf hells, over the areas owned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but they cannot even manage their property, the question of finally bringing the distinction between the Republic of Croatia and neighbouring countries. It has become an extremely peripheral issue in our political life. And instead, instead of the fact that you finally establish the limits of your country and your territory, we are still concerned today with the question of who the Cyrillic inscription bothers and what it symbolizes. And none of us ever said that there was anything against any letter or any language, but that this letter in the minds of the people of Vukovar caused trauma because even after the war, the state failed to solve everything that was meant to be solved from the victims, rapes to the facts of the abolized people who are walking around Vukovar today. That is why this conclusion came before the Croatian Parliament. But you don't want to talk about it, you want to convince us that this is a simple understanding of the standards you offer regarding and compare with the government's reactions from some previous mandates. Those two just don't have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116146	The replica of the esteemed Tink Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Mlakar, I'd like you to try to explain here's a statement we hear about how the official letter of the military was Latin, which is true. But could this mean that the next statement would be that this same army was officially destroyed by Vukovar or that perhaps the Chetnik was not there at all, so we should rediscover who then wrote those Cyrillic messages at all. Maybe the Croats who stayed there were trapped? Please, if you can help me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116148	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116149	Dear fellow Milas, I can't help you. I can only show you how I understand it. After amnesia, it looks like amnesia came along, so we all quickly forgot what happened, how and why. And what was the official letter of JNA today is basically all the same to all of us. We also know what was the official language and we know that JNA was used well in the aggression of the Republic of Croatia and was supported by the Chetnik forces in a decent number. And they left traces in Vukovar that we're talking about today seems to me again in an inappropriate way. I don't know what people in Vukovar think about this kind of debate in the Parliament, but they lead to what we in the law used to write much better than we can carry out. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitutional law points to understanding, points to co-existence by respecting the rights of all and minority members and majority people, and that is essentially a very human and normal norm, and we do not need Council of Europe advisers who advise us to say some of the norms that do not have in their own countries. We have recognised the rights of awareness that these rights should be enjoyed by members of the minority people, but then let us be more correct, more concrete and write down the way it seems. Not like there's always someone who feels cut off and someone who feels like a victim, and there's room for these offices to please everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116150	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the SDSS club will speak for the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116151	As the debate so far has been under way and the esteemed Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues may get the impression that this matter primarily concerns HDZ, SDP and possibly other parties, and that no one else or third has anything to do with it. So if you care so much about Cyrillic, take it as your letter, fix it, free it from worse symbolic elements and do what it historically is, and that is one of the great civilization letters of the human race among which the Croatian race is. Until the 17th century, the town's magistrate used the Cyrillic to thank Vuk Karadzic for the award of a temporary or honorable citizen of the city of Zagreb for the credit he had. But that's not why I came out to talk. I came out to say that it's amazing how little consciousness we have about how much humanity should have created one letter of any kind? For centuries. How long did it take to describe people after that letter was made? Centuries and millenniums. And how little it takes for people to throw it all into the mud of their own calculations and inability to deal with what in the day's historic moment lives. This has been happening for three years with a Cyrillic letter in the Republic of Croatia. And it is completely unthinkable that he has no awareness of what is actually happening to us, that we have brought the whole Cyrillic story down to the question of Serbs in Vukovar and Serbs in general as if Cyrillic were Serbian property and Serbian letter. It is a letter from the Slavic world, the Slavic people, the Slavic Christianity, the Slavic culture and one of the European letters recognised in the EU, recognised in the Council of Europe. I'm just waiting for someone in the EU to also raise a similar initiative as you do here in the European Parliament, to be ridiculed with law. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues are not Cyrillics only of the Serbian letter, Serbs in Vukovar, or anywhere else. It's a historical, civilization letter of the human race. There aren't many of them. Centuries were meant to be created, equal centuries to make it available to everyone and everyone. And what do we do? We, as the dear colleague said, turn him into a symbol of hatred. And instead of freeing ourselves from symbolism, we constantly return to symbolism when it comes to communication and language and letter. Our country is no richer than that, and there's no need for debates. To get back to the very point, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has done a job which is a premise for the adoption of these two draft laws. If the Constitutional Court had gone one step further, maybe the government wouldn't have had to go. But the Constitutional Court had its saying that the government and the City Council of Vukovar had the power to do the job. The government puts forward a proposal, the Vukovar City Council also made a proposal. I'll talk about both. Because it's about the same thing. First, as I understand a number of clubs that are particularly active today and which have launched the campaign and are going once again into the anti-kyrillic campaign of Tobos because of the protection of the City Council and the will of the people was not on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system where changes could be proposed, where conclusions could be proposed and where most of them could be proposed and the conclusions could be made to the Parliament and thus also to the Government to amend this bill in accordance with them. Just like my colleague Lesar did today. A colleague, Lesar, made three proposals that could be discussed. But the proposals we can discuss today have not been heard from the other side, unfortunately. About what should have been said about the conclusion of two years ago, my colleague Lesar had already said everything. Smart enough, as far as I'm concerned. I may not be smart, so I followed what he said. Now, it absolutely takes dialogue on this to have a two-thirds majority like we did in 2002 when we adopted the Law on the Rights of National Minorities. As we had it when it comes to achieving both negotiations and EU membership. Everything that existed then exists now. Everything that exists now existed back then. And the war experience and the war injuries, except for one tiny detail, and that's a small difference in the population list. But the census was conducted in all other municipalities and cities, so no one thought it should be done, no one. There were also casualties in other environments, both Croats and Serbs, which are not likely to be measurable with the victims of the Vukovar but when everything is summed up and taken away is historic for both Croats and Serbs. But what did we do to comply with the statutes? We didn't do anything except when we had to. As it was in 2010 in Vukovar and as it was in 2009 or 2010 in Zadar County where it was not intended to bring the status of the county in line with that of the Serb community, i.e. those minorities who have 5% stakes, have the right to the mayor. Did the mayor then see it as a violence that the HDZ government then told him was supposed to do? Probably is, given his beliefs. And since he thinks most of the county's citizens are convinced. It probably is. But you know, if we were to be guided always and only by the feelings that people have in certain matters, then the laws shouldn't be written, then we'd have a state not the Constitution but the feelings. Then we would have not a state of legal order but a state of love and hate, and that's exactly what we have right now. Like it or not, but that's what we created. Such campaigns by a particular political party lead, unfortunately. You can object, and rightly, in some places Milanovic, but this kind of campaign has not been drawn by Milanovic. And that's where I'm gonna stop. So let's start talking about it. But let us focus, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, on the City Council, where instead of the city of Vukovar leaving the city to the City Council, that job is taken by the mayor. Quite the opposite of the Constitutional Court's decision. And the mayor forms a commission or commission to draft a draft statute with no members of the Serb community. No SDSS, no SDSS. Why? Well, probably because they understand dialogue that way. Why is the mayor taking over the council? Well, probably because it interprets the opinion of the Constitutional Court. Is such an interpretation wrong? Yes, it is. Is it more wrong than what a colleague of the Mlakar points to when it comes to the government's decision to appoint a commissioner? Absolutely. For it is contrary to both the spirit and the letter of the saying of the Constitutional Court. What the government does is not the opposite of the letter. Will the government violate authority? We'll see about that. But for now, we don't know that, so far, it's certainly not the intensity to change the will of the electoral body as it wants to show itself. It's the laying of a coward's egg on a fellow Mlakar. You can plant it for the needs of an election campaign, but it has nothing to do with reality. If you don't have a better argument, if you don't have a better egg, don't even plant a cowardly egg. As for the dialogue, a dialogue on the dynamics of what this law will adopt as necessary in the earlier period is necessary. As we have warned in public on several occasions, but without need, because as the issue has ceased to be important for the Serbs in Croatia today and it is important for the HDZ, we do not know why, it is important for the government to understand why, the government is responsible for implementing the law and probably also it has expectations but we leave it aside now. It is an important dynamic and it is important to talk about it, and it is important to talk about the places of the pitet, and it is important to share a common sense of responsibility towards the places of the pitet and to suffer in general which should be specifically developed in the City of Vukovar as well as in all other environments. I thank those who point out that I was once and for the second time in the memory column but I wish I hadn't seen what I saw for the first time special. But it won't discourage me and it won't discourage me that all other people, citizens of Serbian nationality, are coming with me in the same column. But we create a framework, let's not divide them further by colleagues and colleagues. What this seems to be now is sharing, this is not encouraging community and respecting not only the law but also the piety that needs to be respected. If they're gonna manipulate the victims, it's not gonna happen. The census sounds as amazing as the entire Cyrillic debate, especially in the context of the past few days, when it is warned that we are recording a growing and greater shortage of Croats in Croatia, while here in the last two, three years there has been a campaign on a larger and larger surplus of Serbs and there have never been fewer Serbs in Croatia in history than there are today and not because of what one journalist said during one anniversary of the Storm because they were carried away by the wind as a wave. At least if he said war storm, we'd be much closer to the truth. But if today Croatia has a surplus of its people, its citizens and tomorrow the same citizens will be looking for the white world as it is already looking for them and who will be a minority in Croatia and we are scattered anti-majority moods. So what are we doing to ourselves, to our country, to her needs? What kind of atmosphere do we create where young people say they can't just find a job, but say what kind of country I live in? The one where you keep renovating your tips, where you talk to a Parliament speaker about people who put me back in the past, who get me into hate, who want to confront me with other people, who don't want my environment to be normal, peaceful, and arranged. My colleagues and colleagues, you can run the census when you're in the government next, if you don't forget that by then. You've yet to achieve what the election campaign is giving you as a goal, which means you get to power, and after that, you won't need it anymore. You can but you will find a devastating fact for both Croatians and Serbs in Vukovar, a devastating fact and not only in Vukovar, but also in many other places, you will find a devastating fact that from Gračac people who are 95th and 96th inhabited from Bosnia and Herzegovina are now leaving the path of Europe and Canada, the same Croatians who should have replaced the Serbs who have avoided 95th. And we would determine how many there are and we would first find that there are extra Serbs in some places. Is that a good idea? Absolutely not. Is that a priority? Given today's state of the country, absolutely not. Greece is campaigning for its long-term survival, and we are campaigning against the Cyrillic and engulfing in the lengths of historical proportions. I probably shouldn't have said that because it's not a topic, but so much has been said today that there's no point in me getting lost too. And now let me say the following: with the right of people to speak of the need to choose every word and every step when, in the wake of the suffering in this war and in the wars that have been joined in the former Yugoslavia's space in the 20th century. Dear colleague Klaric, I will accept your testimony that the Cyrillic for you was a symbol of evil, under which you seemed a crime like you said, you were neither the first nor the last to say that in the last three years, and if you could ask one thing, I was not in your copper recently, so I can't say what the walls in the copper on the buildings, the facades look like, but go to Osijek, and you'll see how many cowardly crosses you have that we're bending over when they're stuck on the Earth. How many sneaky U, how many kill calls do we have, how many people who, in response to the Cyrillic campaign, wear black shirts and black shirts? And finally, we have people sitting in the Assembly with badges no matter how their neighbors sitting next to them feel about the message from that badge. I don't say who's guilty, who's not, but I know who's gone and I know how he got hurt. So when you remind me of the victims, then I guess they're the same as the ones from Drava so-called. The settlements, as well as the ones from the garage, so-called. battery. So the accident is common and I experience it that way. And when it comes to the loss of the Croatian people, it is about the loss of my people, not only because of family ties but because of the deepest sense of commitment to historical life, but also because someone did it on Serbian behalf and felt that they could do it in Serbian name. So, if we don't mind all the signs of nasifashism that have been decorated by facades around our cities and even more dramaticly what we've been talking about recently with the president of the Republic, we representatives of the national minorities who have attacked here because of our declaration that children at the courses and in books write do not write Cyrillic, of course because they are saddened and disgusted so that they don't even write Serbian children, but that's none of your business, but that's why they draw cowardly crosses and ear U's. Well, if there is no hearing about it, if it is not a problem for Croatia, if it is a Cyrillic problem for Croatia, if this law is a problem for Croatia then we will fight against such Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116152	Thank you. We have nine replicas. We won't be able to hear them until 13:30, but since we still have 10 minutes, we'll hear the ones we can hear by 13:30 and then we'll take a break and move on at 15.00 hours. The first one was answered by a respected colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116153	Mr. Pupovac, I also think that you have guessed what this is about, that this is, in fact, the least of the letters here, and in fact that they are in their debate and what preceded this debate in Croatia has turned into a Cyrillic letter, a symbol of the reckoning into a symbol of hatred. I would add and not only to the symbol of hate because I couldn't say a lightbulb has, but I wouldn't say it's about haters. But it's about hypocrites and we're bound to expose him always and everywhere anyway. Namely, when HDZ was in Vukovar in the coalition when it was not yet listed by 30% of Serbs but less than 30% then the statute was adopted and there was no problem with that. Likewise, when the HDZ government submitted the annual report to the Assembly in 2010 on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on Bilingualism of the Rights of National Minorities, everyone voted for it, and the government then boasted members of the HDZ boasted precisely bilingualism in Vukovar. So what was obviously love yesterday, today here's how much Djakic from HDZ says it's rape. What was still honorable and brave yesterday, today the HDZ is saying that it is shameful and brazen. Clearly, what was yesterday while they were in God’s power to please God, today is blasphemous. Here's what the Constitutional Court says, and I think they should learn this by heart on page 10 of their decision on what we are discussing today, first it should be reminded of Article 15(4). The Constitution guarantees freedom of service in its own language and letter to members of national minorities, and this right has neither a temporary nor a transitional character. It makes the essence of every nation's identity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116154	Time. Thank you. The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116155	Dear colleagues, the moment the first HDZ man after the election in the party said never again the humiliating coalition with the SDSS of the moment we understood that things were changing in HDZ. Why? We don't know. As long as it goes, we also don't know, but it's a very serious statement that maybe people weren't aware of and whose consequences they weren't aware of. But then the door is open to something that is unfortunately behind it, destroying what has been created since '97 from peaceful reintegration until the entry of the Republic of Croatia from peaceful reintegration which, together with some of the MPs and MPs here, I have had the honour of participating in the interest of peace and in the interest of restoring different relations than we hear today that here is trying to build. Then we had a bigger problem with those who refused to accept peaceful reintegration because President Tudjman controlled on this side everything he could control. Today we have the opposite today Serbs on the other hand accept everything they can accept and on this side we have those who actually want to destroy the results of peaceful reintegration.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116156	Another replica, the respected Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116157	Dear Pupovac, you said well, it takes centuries to create a letter, so it was a verb, Cyrillic, Latin, and these are letters that have its values, its weight. But if anyone used that letter, Cyrillic, it wasn't us here or those there in Vukovar, they were abused by large-scale Serbian politics and not in the Homeland War but far before it. Why have Croats and Serbs lived for centuries in peace and co-existence and now cannot? You're talking about cowardly crosses and U on walls, yes, there are such benefactors, not to say fools who are going to do something like that in every city, so maybe in my Bakru, it's somewhere in an alley or potassium somewhere. But also the cowardly cross is dead long ago, in a dead long time ago but large-serb policy at our borders with Draža Mihajlovic's rehabilitation, with what the minister was saying next to you standing next to that pit. This sacred Croatian soil is too full of costumes and Croats and Serbs to discuss it this way now. And there are too many problems in this country that hurt both Serbs and Croats who live here both Muslims and Roma, and I don't know which national minorities we should discuss more than this. But what I've been talking about all this time is the piety of the city, where underneath that skull is on the black flag they wore while they were singing "Send us salads, we have meat, we'll slaughter Croats" the Cyrillic was written "death." Stjepan Radic was removed, the one who killed him was placed on the Cyrillic until '98. That city is still being walked by people who know who killed and they don't know where who's buried. And just for that reason, no more broken heads happen, no more demonstrations and fucks, I think even members of your party should drink to that city in a way that talks to us this way, so let's not force the Cyrillic in Vukovar this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116158	Replication response, Your Honor, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116159	Dear colleague, no one is pushing anything, as you can see. They force those who wear black shirts and black shirts and take a hammer into their hands and abuse the suffering I have the deepest sense of, not the drink but the deepest of human movedness and the deepest of human compassion. And as for the Cyrillic letter, that's what I said about what I had to say. There were fierce Cyrillics among Serbs nationalists who did not bring Serbia or Serbs well. But let's let Serbia and Serbs go now, we're dealing with Croatia and Serbs in Croatia. Will you charge Serbs in Croatia all of the historical debts that you think should be charged? Is that what I'm asking you? Will you charge Serbs in Croatia for Radic as you mention, or will you remember some of the historical merits of this Serbian people in Croatia for the common freedom of Croats and Serbs, including its state? So when we measure that we know what we're talking about. And second, what died and what didn't die. I would be the luckiest man in the world if I could agree with you so to say the problem is only in the Serbian Chettice and the issue of Nazism, fascism and constitutionalism is a distant past that we can only talk about is the past. And I ask you what songs are sung when people get drunk in our midst?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116160	Thank you. A new replica, the esteemed Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Pupovac, you've just denied what you said about the pay phone that some speak of the past. They're talking, but so are you. Right now you're talking about the past and singing some songs that have been forgotten, I hope for decades. You mentioned recently both Ustashas and partisans, you also live in the past. And you say you should choose words. So I have the impression that you choose them but very selectively. And I can't agree with you that the language and letter of every nation, its cultural and civilizational achievement, is the heritage and the foundation of identity. And no one slows it down, and so does Cyrillic. However, I wonder if you know when the first Croatian returnees returned to Vukovar in '97. years, what's been waiting for them? The inscriptions on Cyrillic and Latin. And was it just the work of the Chetniks as you say or did a city live there, even without the Croats? And what were those inscriptions, the names of the square, the streets and everything else? And when did they start changing? Peaceful reintegration is over if I'm not mistaken on January 15, '98. A year? And I know that the first plate with the Cyrillic sign was removed, so almost two years later. And so over time, in about five years, they've been changing. Well, it might be good for you to say all you're saying to the public here, but also to go to Vukovar and tell it to people, regardless of nationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116162	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116163	My dear colleague, I speak in the House and everywhere else where I come and publicly and unpublicly and between my public and non-public words, there is no difference. That's how I understand how to talk. So when you say that during the peaceful reintegration of the street, the shops were written with Cyrillic letters, so they weren't just in Vukovar, they were in a number of other environments, they were also in Knin, they were in Lapca, they were... They were in many places. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There have been attempts by various types of extremists to make the Cyrillic letter a single letter among Serbs, and it failed because Serbs themselves rejected it. But we're talking about different political circumstances now, fellow Milas. If you allow such political circumstances to be possible today by your perception and perception of your club. In perception there are new regulated relations with new laws and new policies or you would like to measure yourself with those who have established such a regime by '95. in Vukovar, so you would like to establish a similar regime in today's werewolf and answer them with a measure. ... Excuse me, excuse me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do we have a new frame? Has it been so many years? Can we talk under peaceful circumstances?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116164	Like this, it's 13.31. We've got six more lines reported. We'll hear them at 3:00. I'm setting a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116165	Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs, we continue the afternoon plenary session. The other lines are written down. Dear Representative Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116166	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I just don't know who I'm replicating when a colleague who held an argument on behalf of the club isn't here. ... No, I'm not giving up. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thanks for the advice, I wouldn't give up. I've also asked for five minutes on behalf of the promoter, so here after the replica, Mr. President, I'll give my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116167	Thank you very much. There's no response to the replica. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116168	Your Honor, Mr. President, it is convenient, but we will replicate what you would say for the sake of the Croatian public and for the record. We are already used to listening to the lecture of fellow Pupovec on many things, especially when he moralized on issues of members of national minorities or majority people. At this time, he says life - givingly if you like Cyrillic, take a Cyrillic. That's his first statement I've decided to make. We also know the angled verb, so we haven't decided to write with a square verb. We talked more seriously today about the facts concerning these laws, but the de facto of the City of Vukovar than what the colleague of Pupovac decided to react to and then says that it personally calls me to plant a coward's egg on the government because of the fact that we object that the solutions that the government offers in its amendments to the law are not in line with the Croatian Constitution. I will repeat so that one day if he has a chance to talk about other things other than the interest of the Serbian people in Croatia will take those words. It's an anti-constitutional provision when the government takes on powers that do not belong to it but belong to the local self-government, and then it's inadmissible to transfer what you took to someone else, specifically the government's commissioner. You can't give someone more rights than you have or rights that you don't have at all. There's no time for everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116169	Thank you very much. No answer, no one with a basic speech. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116170	Although his colleagues are gone, he spoke on behalf of the club of representatives, I will give my replica. Here is one member of the club present and not because of the replica itself but because of what was said. First, I would like to thank their club for saying that the three proposals I made on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club for them are acceptable topics of dialogue, debate. And secondly, if you've been closely following the debate of your fellow buds, he said the following. We are ready for a dialogue on dynamics and are ready for dialogue in the place of implementation of certain disputed provisions of this law. This message that has been given on the readiness of dialogue and on the dynamics and place should, in my view, be the basis of an attempt to reach a second reading to come to a legislative solution that will be acceptable to the majority. I thank you for this message because for the first time I heard it, it points to the possibility and hope that dialogue and the dynamics of the implementation of disputed parts of the law, which are both made possible by Article 6 and by the position of the Constitutional Court. The value of this message was expressed in the name of the club without being heard and remembered.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116171	Thank you very much. There's no fellow Pupovci here. We're moving on with the replicas. Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116172	Thank you very much, President. In fact, Mr. Pupovac was talking on behalf of the club about anti-manine moods. I must admit that I remembered after 2007, when I was mayor of Osijek-Baranja County, one of the mayors was Mr. Srb of HSP, and the second mayor was Mr. Horvat of the SDSS. And we just had an anti-human mood in Jagodnjak. Croatians are minorities in Jagodnjak and have asked for teaching in Croatian. But it was just a member of the SDSS that prevented it, did not allow it, and we have been struggling for a long time to establish teaching in Croatian. But I don't remember Mr. Pupovac and the SDSS condemning the behavior of their member. But I also want to say that just before Mr. Pupovac's doctor spoke of Osijek. I am pleased that Osijek has remained an unruly city thanks to all of us who stayed in Osijek, thanks to our hero Branimir Glavas. But I want to say that 2012. Osijek fought for the golden flower of Europe. And that year, in 2012, all the graphite in the city of Osijek was wiped out, cleaned up, and we got the bronze flower of Europe. But what I'm saying is that there was just a graphite of that Ossec or the Ossek. But also four of which I remember well around the city. Therefore, if we want to strive to develop good co-existence, to establish good co-existence in Vukovar, and we have wonderful examples of this very quality co-existence in Osijek-Baranja County and elsewhere. But we all have to understand that Osijek bled, didn't bleed out, remained an unruly city. But right under the Cyrillic, the Chetnik flags entered Vukovar. According to this, Vukovar deserves a special place in Croatian laws as well as a permanent mention of our recent history in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116173	Thank you very much. There's also no keynote speaker. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, the replica also.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't, I'm giving up the replica because the meaning of the replica is a kind of dialogue. And since there is no person who, regardless of what he said on behalf of the club, has no representative who could replicate and exchange opinions and views. I don't want to replicate to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116175	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Now we have on behalf of the promoter. Excuse me, we have another representative of Josip Boric, a replica. The bookkeeping of replicas was a little complicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116176	All right. Thank you, Mr. President. Well, that's always the way it is. Someone says something, and then disappears, we can't communicate quality, but I'll say it anyway. Because we at the HDZ Club always have to listen. Mr. Pupovac comes here for a pay phone and then he tells us some of his MPs and constantly assesses the work of a political party of the Croatian Democratic Union. He did the same thing today. I'm not going to evaluate the policy of the SDSS or what he's doing, but I'm going to quote the people who rated it and that politics and the people who run that policy, so I'm going to quote what was said. Pupovac's policy is turning into an ethno business rather than a quality minority policy. The Pod is nowhere near as a big advocate for the reconciliation of Croats and Serbs as it sometimes wishes to show. In many areas, Croatia leads a low-intensity national conflict policy only to show Serbs that they need a protector like him. The former president of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Josipovic, said that. That was the reason and some fighting in public, that was why they might have cracked some lines or connections. But from afar, there was no reason for anyone to behave in this House the way Mr. Pupovac behaves. And I remind you, we have recently held the same debate here about a declaration that also spoke about the great threat of minorities, the great exodus of minorities from the Republic of Croatia, etc. And the fact is that someone really wants to use this relationship between Croats and Serbs for purely daily political purposes, and Mr. Josipovic regards it as a kind of ethnic business. So any further discussion might be excessive here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116177	Thank you very much. There's no basic speaker from a colleague of Popovec, so there's no answer. Now, on behalf of the promoter, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since I was able to assess Mr. Pupovac will not appear on our replicas, I asked for my business law, which is that as a proponent of the proposal for a conclusion, I speak on behalf of five minutes. And now that I have said and I will repeat here that I am a legalist and that I respect all the laws and international rights and obligations that Croatia has made towards not only the Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality but also all the national minorities. And I believe that in six years of working here in this House of Commons, I have never hurt a single national minority in my own debate. But if any representative, even if he was a longtime representative of the SDSS Club, can be allowed to say whatever he wants here, that his speech is always addressed to the HDSSB at the border of the incident and that deliberately provokes our reaction, I will use my five minutes, not the two I gave him with the right to respond to my replica, to what he said here. If the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia calls on the Croatian Parliament not to interfere in the policy that we are going to implement here, without meddling in the debates that will be, as well as in its own decision that they are sometimes more difficult in nature, and that I may be able to direct someone to some false sense of understanding, I would say that Mr. Pupovac is today's performance in the Croatian Parliament, and calling on us who are members of the Committee on the Constitution, which I am in front of the HDSSB Club and Mr. Mlakar in front of the HDZ Club who did not participate in the Constitution Committee on Monday for other reasons, and not from those he thinks we did not participate. This is Parliament, here it is debated and here amendments are made to any legislative proposal. In his 20-minute speech, I have not heard a single proposal concerning the law that we are discussing, not a single proposal specifically relating to any article of the law other than the fact that the representatives of the HDSSB club wear this badge that we bear with pride, where a hero rather than a criminal writes, and he said something about it and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia abolished the verdict and returned it to the Supreme Court for review. And the same SDSS representative could afford to carry a tape in the Croatian Parliament, to journalists and the Croatian public, and also to the Croatian court, telling that the court should make a decision in the re-trial. So he can do it. He can wear a tape that's one of the items that's being conducted against Mr. Glavas, which we say is innocent, he's allowed that luxury, and we can't allow ourselves like us seven MPs to do this. Well, you see, we can. And that's the way he behaves here and talks in the Parliament, he leads the conflict, not us. In our conclusion, we called on the Parliament to commit its conclusion to the Government to consider consistent application of Article 8. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which, apart from listing constitutional rights, speaks of that no constitutional right of the national minority should be used to harm the majority, which is the Croatian people. And we were not talking about the fight against Cyrillic and the ban on Cyrillic in Croatia but about something else, the problem that was created in the explicitly city of Vukovar because it was about the city of Vukovar, the wounds of the city of Vukovar and the situation that took place in 2013. And it's sad that we're talking about it in 2015. This conclusion did not go against the Cyrillic nor against the prohibition of Cyrillic in use in Croatia, nor that any one of us, with our proposal, is belittled. I'll mention what Mr. Bubalo said, for a long time in the use of Cyrillics in Osijek-Baranja County and the parish of the SDSS who worked very well together, I was president of the Council Club for nine years in the Osijek-Baranja County Assembly, no problem with the SDSS council members and I didn't have one with the mayor. The bilingual boards also stood in Erdut for peaceful reintegration, no one broke them, no one destroyed anything that had to do with the Serb national minority in our county. This was about the year 2013 of Vukovar. I commended in my replica Mr. Pupovac's arrival in a memory column in Vukovar, and now invited by his debate that he had afterwards, addressing directly the representatives of the HDSSB club with suspicion, did he come to what he wanted, what he had to or what he provoked? I give it to him that I am an appraisal because he is also a member of this House which Croatian laws and Croatian people have allowed him to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116179	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116180	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Salapic, you have now said something that we have already heard from fellow Pupovac. It shows you one constant in his performances. He's always giving moral lectures to everyone, and often exactly the HDZ club, of course, to you, but when it comes to hearing the arguments of the opposite side, he's usually gone. So he's gone even now that he's provoked replicas to his exposure to hear from us what we have to say about it. So he praised the events of a peaceful reintegration period in which some of us participated, and we could talk about it. However, what is interesting he understood his role even as no law in the Republic of Croatia gives him the right, which is that he calls us here in Parliament for the fact that we were present or are not sitting in the Committee on the Constitution, forgetting that there are a whole series of reasons why you can or do not have to be present. And he invites us to the Committee on the Constitution on which we have made our proposals at least 50 times and none of them have ever been accepted to make our proposals there. So, it takes the right to call us working in the working bodies of the Parliament, takes the right to teach all of us here how to protect the interests of minority people while I've never heard Mr. Pupovac raise his voice against politics coming from the native Republic of Serbia and provokes reactions in Croatia. At that time, he usually says he is not a chronicler of the black chronicle of Serbian-Croatian relations. And that's the result of his actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116181	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116182	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Mlakar, we worked together in 2013 to calm down the situation that was then in Vukovar and it was dramatic, we were there together in that memory column, and together we participated in trying to reconcile international tensions and bring the situation back to dialogue. This dialogue could only be conducted here in the Croatian Parliament. And now we come two years after the Constitutional Court's decision, which was initiated by no free will of anyone but by the collected signatures for a referendum signed by not a small number of citizens. On the basis of this decision, the Constitutional Court also gave instructions to the City Council of Vukovar and the Government of the Republic of Croatia but also stated in its consideration that the rights of the majority people were respected. And now every time you talk here, you make some constructive suggestion we don't have to agree to the disbanding of the representative body in this way. There are other mechanisms that can have control over whether a consistent law on the rights of national minorities is implemented, but the Constitutional Court points out that what Mr. Lesar has suggested is possible in a certain legal solution to the application of the law in certain parts of Croatia, especially the city of Vukovar, to certain parts of Vukovar be delayed until a certain period of time until both tensions and co-existence are realised in the right sense of that word. We are now coming to the conclusion that we, as representatives of the Croatian Assembly with equal rights and obligations, must not say what we want here because everyone finds themselves called to one single sentence that no one personally wanted to insult Mr. Popovec's right to say what he wants here. So if we for six years or 20 years have to suffer that someone who is a national minority can say what they want, and we cannot answer what we will and then it turns out that we are the haters of the Serb national minority, which is not true at all. I personally know how to read Cyrillic, I learned to write Cyrillic. When I was doing my Master's degree, I read numerous textbooks on Cyrillic, when I was doing my work on the history of the Croatian state and of rights and nobody demeaning the right of the Serbian people to use Cyrillic in Croatia. It is a shame that he treats us like this in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116183	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116184	Well, the worst part is you say whatever you want, but that's your thing. The truth of the will and of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities was not present. So not only on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System but also on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, no one was present either from the members of the HDZ or the HDSSB. Mr. Salapic, I'd like to beg you. I'll give you a chance to tell you if there were any Serbs killed in Osijek. Were there Serb murders in Osijek? The third thing you were saying, that you always respected, and I had correct relations, I can't say it today, and even the former mayor here, Mr. Bubalo, was in the rooms of the joint council of municipalities and the current mayor Šišljagic with former mayor Buric with normal and certainly the former mayor here, but I also remember a time when a mayor denied the right of the Serbian community to the parishioner of the same here Mr. Horvat who was not elected and the legal opinion of the legal department was actually waiting for the United Nations to do so. And of course it came to the opinion that he must appoint a Serbian-run mayor on the proposal of the Serb community, it was still a 97-year-old right. So it's not like you've always respected that right. Remember who that mayor was back then who didn't want to do it? And in the end, I know that politics is worth a vote when one vote decides on a majority, but I will remind you in the city council that one vote now decides and that vote by the HDSSB council. Perhaps it is a problem if you do not accept the statute, or amend and supplement the statutes to disband the city council and to lose such a position. That's pretty valuable. And I understand you absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116185	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116186	I am not going to doubt your good intentions, but this is how you told the general Croatian public if there were any Serbian victims in Osijek? So the grenades that went to Serbia, the aggressor, did not choose who was a Serb, who is a Croat, who is Hungarian and who is other national minorities in the City of Osijek. And many of the victims fell from the grenades on this side, not from the shootings of the Republic of Croatia and the defenders, the Assembly of the People's Guard and those of the heroes who defended the City of Osijek. And these are historical facts that one might consider to exist or not exist. A long time has passed in building a joint co-existence, and now we can acknowledge ourselves or not, I repeat to you personally I am for all rights of the national minority of the Republic of Croatia to be respected by the maximum and rights of the Serb national minority if they are not implemented by law, and by the regulations of international agreements that Croatia has adopted. We had a problem that was created in Vukovar and the only reason why we are discussing this law today is the City of Vukovar, circumstances in Vukovar in which only everyone participated and we have seen what is happening. If your intentions and your parties for the dialogue were sincere, he could have been quite accomplished in these two years. Any initiative that came from the Vukovar defenders, any initiative that went on to postpone the application of certain rights and laws for justified reasons has been reduced to conflict with the Serb national minority in Croatia. And if it doesn't stop, neither will this law that is before us today, nor this conclusion, nor long reading of the law, nor will the two-thirds majority change anything unless we respect each other in what we do. And remember the situation when there was that press conference where your club representative Milorad Pupovac spoke about the Glavas case. Remember the situation and the debate in the Parliament, and since when we MPs wanted to come out next to you, you didn't let us through. I think it is absolutely not the behavior that is appropriate here in the Croatian Parliament. You can sit there and say what you want and don't let us walk by you. I think the Croatian public needs to know something and hear about it because it is a behavior that must not be allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116187	Thank you very much. We're continuing to discuss the same topic by the representatives' clubs. It is next to the club of Independent Leftists and a respected colleague, Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116188	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, a lot of words have been said and they've become more rough and rougher, which actually tells me we didn't come here to agree, but we've come to take the bus, everyone on our side and mobilize their voters, sees us Democrats, sees us good Croats. So of course we won't get anywhere. This isn't about Cyrillic, I guess it's clear to all of us, and to those who possibly listen to us, it's not about Cyrillic, Cyrillic is one of Slaven's civilization achievements. And I think it's an element of literacy, I write Cyrillic as well as Latin, and I'm totally proud of it. Well, for God's sake, there's no harm in it. This is essentially two key things for the future of the Republic of Croatia. It's one thing to respect the law when we don't like them. No one says that the City Council of Vukovar must like this law, that they must be madly in love with it, they don't have to, but they have to carry it out and they have to respect it and the feller is that in the present law, besides carrot cooperation, there wasn't even a beating sentence if it wasn't there. In fact, the second aspect of this debate concerns the protection of minority rights as the obligation of the majority. Most not only can't, but they can't decide to take away and restrict minority rights. It's something that doesn't actually belong to legislation, it's a civilization achievement. If we don't stick to all of the Pandora's boxes, they're open, just like they were in some of the historical times. Here, somewhere, the foundations of what we call European democracy and Western civilization are what we have today and what we must want to live in. We are discussing three acts today, two laws and one conclusion and two positions. The attitudes are diametrically opposite. They come from the legal basis of the Constitutional Court's ruling and from the existing legal frameworks. And what are these opposing views doing in Parliament, what should they find in Parliament? Well, I guess some kind of deal and some kind of compromise. Politics is a compromise. Everything that happens if it's not by force of the hand, and then it'll take a while. All that is happening in society and what is the subject of politics is the result of some kind of compromise. The best political talks are when we both go out perfectly unhappy because we had to give up something of our own. If we are unable to do this here in the Croatian Parliament, then we have a big, big problem. Then we have a really big problem. Honestly, when we passed the Laws on the Rights of National Minorities, and it's similar to other minorities, not just national minorities, I thought honestly without the figs in our pocket that we were all behind it. With this, we boasted in the negotiations, and we boasted in the first days of the EU that the issues of national minorities and not only national minorities in Croatia were actually solved on one level which a good part of European countries are just looking at and trying to get close to it. And it looks like we had a good part of that classic fig in our pocket. We talked to people from the European Commission and the Parliament and the Council who we already told what we knew they wanted to hear, and we wrote it. And the check slowly, now it's come to the conclusion that things need to be done. Who are we trying to cheat on? Maybe under quotes cheat, come on, cheat quasi-civilized attitudes. We can't fool the world. In this white world about us and everything that we're saying here today and what we're doing and what's happening to us, they know more significantly than we think and even we know. When I first came to talk with the president of the Socialists in the European Parliament, he talked for 15 minutes about the political situation in Croatia and knew everything I knew and a little bit more. So we're not cheating on them. Finally, the EU doesn't have to cheat anymore, we're inside, what we have to cheat on now. We cheat as usual on ourselves and then pay the price. Never but never by the criteria of the author of conclusions will come the time of forgiveness, peace, tolerance, style and acceptance of others who are similar to us, but they are not exactly the same as we are, they are not the same tribe. We don't have any problems with the Eskimo or the Banta blacks, of course, they're different, we always have problems with those who are close to us, who are neighbors and who we're similar to because we recognize something of ourselves in them, so it's not very pleasant. Never hate among those who have it, and apparently there is, on one side and on the other, will hate never accept living together with those who think differently, who pray differently, who look different, who speak differently, and yet similar. This hatred is something that this Parliament actually has should have a sacred task of removing it from the minds of the people who live here. There are few of us, if we look at each other in such a way through such glasses, there will be even less of us. And never, but never, ever, ever, should give in to exclusion on any side, fear and xenophobia, and of course, you should never dream of revenge. It destroys the dreams of the one who dreams of that revenge. There's nothing to build on that. It's a tragedy. That's what we have long and fat experiences about. Let's talk, let's find a deal. Here's a colleague, Lesar, who suggested topics that could be discussed, it's the only chance there is no other chance. But the topic for discussion, for negotiation and for compromise cannot be whether or not we will comply with the laws that this Parliament has adopted. We have to respect them completely and always wherever they apply. If not everyone in the entire Republic is equal in front of the law, then there is no law, then it is not a state. It's a monster. There is also no compromise on that, and it seems to me that it is something that still revolves around people's heads to be willing by the majority, because most of them can abolish the right of the minority. You can't do that. You can't do that and you can't do that. That's what's happening here in this House. And now, the party in power has a lot of times crossed over things that are pretty sure people aren't good at, and that's not how they should do it, but they do it. Let's not make it a national principle. It's not a national principle. These amendments to the law are the piece of law that is not carrots, but beatings. I was really hoping, honestly, that this issue of beatings in legislation wouldn't even be necessary. That people would accept it as healthy for granted and I think of it as something that's meant already from the fact that the war ended 20 years ago, that a whole new generation of young people were born, grew up, schooled and went to Australia while we're trying to be like this or like that. What good is that? I can hardly think of that. The law should be implemented not for the sake of the European Union, because of resolutions, declarations, or for some abstract justice, but because it is a prerequisite for civilised survival. If today's law is not implemented which I don't like for this and the reason tomorrow is not going to be implemented by someone who's talking about my rights. And each of us fights for our rights here. If we don't do it wrong. It's not a matter of stressing here again about such ephemeral things as a panel on a wall. That record is just a symbol of the state. The symbol of our government and the symbol of the decisions we've made here. If we do not respect these symbols, we do not respect ourselves, we do not respect our decisions, and then it is no wonder that this Parliament does not consider a good part of the citizens a very serious place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116189	Thank you, too. We have a replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116190	Thank you very much. Your colleague Vuljanić also spoke of the gains of European democracy, according to whom, according to you, such things are as you said unimaginable in the European... And now you tell me, and we were together observers in the European Parliament how many national minorities there is a democratic state like France where one Elsas in which all the inscriptions in the German language, you know, we were together, and you know what hotel you were staying in, what's the name of the hotel you're in, or the neighborhood where the hotel was. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So France has no national minorities, very democratic state without national minorities, and we know they also have... And in Elsa, so the Germans, up in the north of Valonci, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there are no national minorities with them, all of them, and those who are inhabited are all French, all French, so the Germans who are called Herman are pronounced Erman, the Hoffmans are Ofmans, etc. Secondly, you've quite theoretically and slightly twistedally expressed your position and talked about it if most people's will is limited to the minority it's not democratic. Does it seem to you that in this Croatian Parliament sometimes the gentleman, is not here, is actually acting as if he is the majority and nature of the will and doing restrictions on silent Croatian I do not know what to say to the minority or to the majority. Over all of us, actually, here. That's one thing. You said that democracy rests at the will of the majority, in... So you were a bit contradictory, so if there's a majority of the coalition's corn here in Parliament on Fridays, that's the will of the majority, the democratic one that surveillance has chosen, but I'm saying it's not worth national issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now how, for something, does something not apply?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116191	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116192	Right, France has no national minorities, you forgot to mention the Corsicans who count the same as the nation for themselves, no. Does that mean we don't have to have them? I don't see... They can be considered whatever they want but if we have national communities that feel the way they feel. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So who are you and I to say if you won't feel that way anymore, you'll feel the way I tell you because there's more of us. Isn't that awesome? The implementation of the majority force in Parliament is the truth that we talked about the other day when we discussed this Law on Children's Compensation, bad actions carried out by force of most hands. But it should neither be a practice in relations with other national communities. If that happens here, we're gonna rebel, we're gonna panic, we're gonna call the media, and I know what we're gonna do. But if this happens in relations with national groups in the Republic of Croatia then the result will be much, much more serious as I say I do not justify what is happening in Parliament. It's not a democracy to raise hands against a well-established procedure and act on it because that's how we are. Of course, it's not democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116193	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It is the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and Representatives Damir Cain and Shandor Juhas. Damir Caine first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116194	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Right, someone said this to us in some way we might even call the Vukovar Act. Here, normally when we talk about this legal basis, the Constitution and constitutional laws and international agreements that have a logical power above the law are listed. There is also talk about the Constitutional Court's decision, but it is important for us, because Vukovar is a stumbling block, to point out among other things, and no agreement on the peaceful integration of Eastern Slavonia is listed. I'm going to quote just one piece of the argument. The Constitutional Court has obliged the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer, within 1 year of the date of publication of the decision in the National Journal, to the parliamentary procedure for amending and supplementing the Act on the Official Use of Language and Letters, national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. I would hate for this law for these or those reasons to adopt some dominant electoral goals, not the needs of a minority population. The original foundation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the Republic of Croatia is established as a national community of Croatian peoples and states of members of national minorities and then lists Serbs, Czechs, Slovaks, Italians, Hungarians, Jews, Germans, Austrians, Ukrainians, Russians, Bosniaks, Slovenians, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Russians, Bulgarians, Poles, Roma, Romania, Turks, Vlaha, Albanians and others who guarantee equality with the citizens of Croatia, nationality and the achievement of national rights in accordance with the democratic norms of the UN and the countries of the free world. Gentlemen, the problem must be solved. To all national minorities in Croatia, the Constitution guarantees first and foremost freedom of expression of nationality, free use of its own language, thus and by letter and cultural autonomy. The cultural autonomy model, which includes the right to education in language, the letter of national minorities, the official use of minority languages, ensures integration and prevents the assimilation of national minorities into Croatian society. Equal official use of both languages and letters of national minorities in Croatia is achieved in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, then the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages of the Council of Europe, the Law on the Use of the Language of National Minorities, Constitutional Laws, the Constitutional Court Decisions, and I will also mention this Treaty on the Peaceful Reintegration of Eastern Slavonia. We all know, everyone mentioned it, which happened in one Vukovar in Eastern Slavonia, but the language, Cyrillic, bilingual plates must not be a problem. We all agree that one Vukovar was systematically destroyed, that people were persecuted, evicted, deported to the camps of many, we watched that film recently and raped. Of course, the Serbs suffered as well. Every time I talk about this matter, I pull some parallel with Istria. It may not be the most accurate, but there are similarities. World War II was one bloody war, the period between the two world wars was all but an ideal period. Fascism was not only a threat to the Slavs, Croats, Slovenians, but to all freedomists, I will tell the people there, the Italians. First victim of fascist terror, for example. in Istria was Rovinjan Italian.... The leaders of the Republic of Labin were dominant Italian,... you can't imagine without that Italian component as well as Croatian, Slovenian, etc. And then what happens after World War II? It happened to us or we were struck by a horrible barbaric exodus that struck Istria almost as nearly as the war itself. Of the 186,000 people leaving these premises somewhere, 140,000 people were from Istria. I'm talking about the ones who were optin', etc. And then the fate of Istria was regulated by international contracts, I deliberately apostrophe, because that is why this law is also passed, so the status of Istria is regulated until a peaceful '47. From the quiet mountain to the so-called Trieste, the London Agreement of '54, so here we have... agreement, Roman agreements, etc. Among other things, these agreements specify exactly where and when a minority language or Italian must be used. A few days ago, I received people from Vukovar, and I asked them if the wounds were still so painful. I had the impression that this division was not so expressed as 2008, 2009, or 2010. It is clear that the murdered cannot be forgotten, that the raped remember what happened to them, that the exiles cannot forget the torments, that those who were left without property remember those who did so. Then at one point they told me about it, and neither did you in Istria, as ideal as you think it is, is everything ideal. Says your men are gone. At one point I imagined myself saying yes, and that's exactly what's the biggest tragedy. We ran out of people, half the population there in '45. A year. Many were scared then, democracy was or wasn't, it doesn't matter now. In some parts we certainly had more freedom than we do now, for example when it comes to the independence of the media in Istria. But we still have to be together between ourselves in some way to reconcile, live together and with all those who have moved into those or into our spaces. There were a lot of problems, but over time these problems were somehow trying to solve themselves. Most of the problems were probably with the property, but the question cannot be questioned, although someone should review all the things where individuals who act without a kuna have come to something that neither by human nor by God's laws should belong to them. Now where do you come from? Probably from this disbanding council. I know it's the most radical measure. It might be better to mention a fine instead. This proposal is something I absolutely understand, something I justify but if it turns into some spite then we will have either permanent division or permanent elections or one constant uncertainty, a constant review of some public will, a permanent rise in some political tensions and divisions in society. It is good that the law is adopted by a two-thirds majority, at least I doubt that it will be achieved, and I agree that overzealousness, over-legislative sovereignty, too intense, means when it comes to decommissioning could be counterproductive, and that is where it should be found in some way. I suggest that, in some material way, those responsible for non-compliance with legal norms or for disabling how to express the will of the legislator, i.e. the Constitution, the constitutional law and the law governing this matter. The right minority is something we need to respect, that's what we need to be determined in some way. Repression is something we'll see how it ends in the end. And for the end, equal official use of language, letters of national minorities are generally introduced to the entire area of a particular municipality or city. It can only be introduced in part of the area of the municipality and the city. We in the Republic of Croatia have if I am not mistaken 55 units of regional/regional/ means local self-government that introduced these standards. Of these, more than a third of the population were made up of the 27 units of national minorities, while in 28 units, the official equal use of minority language and letter was introduced by the statute. I am extremely proud that in one Peroje, for example, there are live Montenegrins, so you can also see bilingual inscriptions. I'm talking about Istria, not far from Vodnjana, Fažana, and no one is just bothered by it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116195	Part two, dear colleague Juhas on behalf of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116196	Dear President, dear colleagues. Well, it's interesting enough to listen to it as a member of the national minority that's being discussed here and the way it's being discussed. And somehow, the man becomes more proud and prouder that he is there and that I am a member of the Hungarian national minority. I come from the middle in which we have been a national minority since 1920 and during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in Baranja have printed posters for fire parties in Hungarian, German, Cyrillic and Latin letters not only at a fire party but at all events social at the time. My father was born in 1919, and he attended elementary school in Beli Manastir and studied Cyrillic, Latin, German and Hungarian, and he did not have much. During the war in Russian captivity, he also learned Russian. So I'm not going to tell you this much, but I can say with interest that I'm following and I have my own judgment. This debate has turned unfortunately on the use of Cyrillic. However, I do not read it as the use of Cyrillic, I read it as the use of all minority languages, and I would not want to become a hostage of Cyrillic, the relationship between the left and the right in this Parliament, and that it is being broken across national minorities. Unfortunately, I have that feeling. A few days ago, the session was interrupted and there was talk of eviction. We were saying that young people are leaving, that young people are leaving the Republic of Croatia, that they are going to the world. I think that even after this debate, the same good part of the young people will go away, I think a good part of those who need to start their family here will say I'm sick of discussing them, I'm tired of going to live in the world where they won't count me, where they won't tell me I can use a letter like this or I'm going to use what I want and how I think. I think we should take care of that. I strongly support this law, however, there is one thing I would like a little bit different written. In the context of what I've said, I think that even one third of the population is a great figure, that it is a large number, that it should be reduced to 20% of the population, I think then the goal of using the language and letters of the national minorities is one civilization achievement, that one achievement with which all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can be proud. Why do I say that? So I'm telling you because of the situation that we have in Baranja again. We have municipalities where the share of the Hungarian national minority is 29% or 30%, what happens now? 30% of the population speaks Hungarian, 10% of them do not speak Croatian, and 33% should be. We have a situation that a great agglomeration with a large number of people is dominant, there lives a more or less Croatian population, it is dominant, and in the surrounding settlements there is a dominant Hungarian population. That's why I think that consensus, not consensus, but that censorship should be removed from one third to 20%. Why is that and why do I suggest it again? Take a look at the situation at the White Manastir Mother's Office covering all of Baranja. Nine people working, no Hungarians. Because there's not enough of us in the county that he should be there. The birth certificates go back to '41. in Hungarian or Cyrillic... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, okay. Names that parents want to give to their children can't be given because the parent doesn't understand Hungarian and when the mother says I want my child to be called... Then it turns out everything and everything just doesn't turn out... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because a parent can't write... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the situation we had until '41. The years when during the old Yugoslavia, Pishta was Stephen, not Stephen, but Steve, so then we have Istvane, we have Stephen, we have Steve, we have everything and we just don't have what's called. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We now have the latest example, since we do not have any Hungarian-speaking matriarchs no more weddings in Hungarian. It says, translate. Well, for God's sake, we're going to translate that now. Now we'll call the court interpreter to translate when he tells the groom yes. And we're going to translate that now? These are all the reasons why I suggest that a one-third censor be removed to 20% and that the law regulates the issue in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116197	Thank you, too. First we go to the replicas of the respected representative Damier Caine. Boro Grubisic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116198	Thank you very much. A colleague of Cain's, but he's not here? And yet I'll say what's right with Kaja's side of the club, won't I? So he was talking about integration, not assimilation. Of course, no one thinks about assimilation, nor does it happen, mainly in some national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. These are unremembered cases. We all know who they're dealing with. Separate kindergartens in Vukovar, children separated from kindergartens, separate schools, what's all this about? We talked before it was about ghettoisation. Is that integration? Separate classes, separate schools, kindergartens, children separated Serbian from Croatian. So is that normal integration, is that something that's normal that since childhood people are differentiated towards nationality? And who asked? Croats? No! No! So, what are we talking about? When someone expresses genuine remorse for what he did in Vukovar, Caine is gone, then it will be much, much easier to overcome all difficulties. Only regret, so of course everyone regrets the victim anywhere that was done and anyone that was the victim, we all regret it. But when someone expresss regret and recognition of what has been done and how many victims have been and to say sorry for it or regret it, and someone from the high circles, then it's something that a man can accept, act and forgive. Of course, forget it ever. But it's not there, it's not in Croatia. And as for Mr. Juhas, how about Juhas right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116199	No, we're not going in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116200	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116201	There's no answer because there's no respected representative who's been giving a speech. There is a replica of respected MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, also to Damir Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116202	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain talked about one important thing, only on the way of course, because that is what today's theme is about, the Italianization of the entire Croatian coast. I think what happened now far away in 2010 when Carlo Giovanni and Gianfranco Fini so Italian ministers in the Italian government in Berlusconi's government said publicly by practically supporting an Italian officer who today did not give up many parts, especially on our coast, especially the City of Zadar. It was not until 1963 that they founded a free municipality of Zadar in the refugee area, but a public letter was sent to the two ministers, in 2010, no one reacted, no one reacted then from the authorities. He says he then calls Zadar a non-Croatian city but a wedding-Dalmatia town. They say that in 1945 the Croatians had changed the Italian names of the streets and placed them, they also settled the town of Croatia, settled and placed them instead of Italian ones and placed Croatian names. Still a notorous lie, he claims that in the city of Zadar we hide the number of Italians that there are far more. We were ready, too, and there was no dispute in Zadar, nor in the majority, nor in the minority if the conditions were met, but indeed the Italians and the minority did not exist. This, however, is said by the fact that every few people report to one another and there is no adequate answer on our part.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116203	Thank you very much. No respected representative of Damir Cain, no response to the replica. It is the turn of a respected representative of Bora Grubisic, Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116204	Now, fellow Juhas, you're talking about censorship, so a third down from 33% to 20%, for example. And believe me, again after I don't know how many years there would be new demands. Those who have 18% would say that we only lack 2% so that we have the opportunity to write or speak in public and in long official places, let's say now let's take the Hungarian language, this time to give you a replica, so it's a Hungarian language that I like, and I like and I teach it a little bit and you see for ourselves how we've informally communicated. So let's take other countries, let's take an example of Hungary giving rights to the national minority or, for example, to Hungary. Perhaps it would be good to take up that in Vienna where there are 200 thousand or thousands of however you want Serbs to board in Vienna on state institutions and city halls, there will be Cyrillic and Serbian, there will be a magistrate in Vienna at Cyrillic because there are 200 thousand Serbs in Vienna. Why don't they do something similar in Austria like they do here with Vukovar, looking for tables in Vienna not Cyrillic to understand what's going on in Vienna. Where's the opera, where's Schönbrunn or I don't know what. I don't know why not. That I am convinced that in addition to talking about weddings that there are therefore priests who speak Hungarian, I think there are also evangelical churches and all other churches, and Catholic in Hungarian where the priest and priest are speaking neatly Hungarian language and I think weddings are done that way. Well, they can also be perfectly neat in Hungarian.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116205	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Shandor Juhas. I saw from the body language that you wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116206	What if we didn't know that? And would it be necessary after a few years to reduce that censorship? I don't think so. I think that as far as Hungarians are concerned, most young Hungarians would stop going to schools in Hungary, I think that they would go back, so that they would start their families, and that the trend of the decline of members of the national minorities would fall precisely because they would become another more tolerance society, become an even more civilized society, becoming a society in which everything that is written down and in a certain way began to apply. That's how I look at it, I look at it positively. I'm not looking at it from a negative context. I noted that out of my experience, you moved a good part of the youth precisely because of the climate that's being created, because of some constant counting, whether we belong to the left, to the right, where you were, who you were, who your grandfather was, who your dad was, who you were, you fought, you didn't fight, etc. But that's, that's other topics. Economic progress is one thing, and the situation that is especially with us in Baranja is another. As for Vienna and other things, countries were created in different ways. I mentioned what was going on in Karanc before World War II. We are an indigenous population, we have not fallen from Mars and our ancestors have been built in these areas for the last 1,000 years, they have not come as the Serbs have gone to Vienna so that they have now. That's the difference, that's the important difference, and that's the way to look at the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116207	Thank you very much. I'm going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. A number of colleagues from the HDZ club are colleagues Zvonko Milas and Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116208	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's my part of the exhibit, given that all three points are united and dedicated to this second point, i.e. Vukovar, and the problems of setting up bilingual panels, or the conclusion of the work of 52 MPs who have been squatting in the drawers of the Croatian Parliament for almost 2 years now, and I think it was a really good basis for a debate that should have happened two years ago, and I think that maybe we could find a solution that would be acceptable to all of them, or to those most concerned by this problem, and these are the people of Vukovar, regardless of which. To make it clearer, I'll try to structure my exposure in a few points. Probably not everyone will be happy with what they're about to hear, but I have to say, since more than two years have passed to remind us what preceded this debate that we're having today, we've been listening to colleagues on behalf of clubs and everything they've been saying, what they've been telling us, or what they've been doing, I'm going to try to present it all in my own way, or to say what's happened before. First, I would like the President of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, and everyone who thinks like him or may not think to remind and know, unfortunately, that the only barbarians associated with Vukovar are those who have ruthlessly torn him down, attacked, destroyed, burned, killed and taken to camps, raped, and with one intention only, destroyed the Croatian presence in a city that was to become part of a large Serbia. They had a name and a last name and it was easy to recognize in the crowd, both 20 and a few years ago and today. And unfortunately, in early 2013, in the current hour, I had a need to warn and ask the Prime Minister before applying the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities to try to prevent what might happen, to try to talk, to bring together all those concerned, so not us in the Parliament but just the people who live there, but nothing happened. So we have also been convinced through recent events that Vukovar does not come across the understanding of those who today govern Croatia, but that the ease they play with this Vukovar sanctuary, that symbol as we all call it martyrdom, victory, defenses, we have made sure that there can be unwanted scenarios, and we have had the opportunity to see the results. We've seen a panel set up on state institutions, not at night but early enough to say what the honest world is sleeping and waiting for a few more hours so that if I don't cheat on the first day of school, then bilingual records are placed. Is this not an act of violence against not only the Constitution and the laws, but of those who truly believed in me that suffered immeasurably, and today is not easy for them. And that is why it is our shared responsibility to do everything to stop the violence against the Vukovars, and this trauma to which they are exposed has weakened as much as possible. Whoever has the right to deny the speciality of Vukovar, his victims and his contribution to the creation and defence of the Croatian state or all we've been saying all these years is a farce, convenient speech only so much for the opportunities in which we say it. Who has the right to play with the feelings of those who are still seeking their loved ones, with the feelings of those who still know the encounter of their rapists on the streets of Vukovar? Whoever has the right to play with the hope of those who believe that, above all, justice will be established and achieved in Vukovar, and not only the right, that all those who have committed crimes will be punished because, without patheticity, the only way of truth and justice is the path that will lead to reconciliation and a gradual establishment of mutual trust, and ultimately a common life. And why is the level of peace that has allowed the return of Croatian exiles damaged, while staying in Vukovar and those who wanted to live in it? Why are they trying with tensions, I'd like to make a mistake, to realize political interests? The language and letter of every nation and its cultural and civilizational achievement, the foundation of national identity, equally applies to the Croatian, Serbian, Hungarian, Russian or Italian people, and accordingly the rights to the use of language and letters of each nation primarily if it is minority must be guaranteed and regulated by law. And there's no dispute about it. Today, both Croatian and Serbian, and Hungarian, and Russian, and Ukrainian and German, are freely spoken in Vukovar. Come to Vukovar take a walk in his streets, talk to people about it, because Vukovar has been a multilingual and more religious and multiethnic city for centuries. And who today claims that the Vukovars against the Serbian language and Cyrillic letters are as the cultural heritage of the Serbian people in Croatia is extremely malicious and does not work in the interest of the Croatian state and people or even in the interest of the Serbian national minority. Unfortunately, the Serbian language and especially Cyrillic are linked to the aggression against Croatia and the crimes committed on behalf of the realization of the idea of a great Serbia. So they did not become a symbol because the cultural heritage of the Serbian people, but because under these symbols war crimes were committed especially in Vukovar. And because the use of these symbols had to prove that the Croats had never lived in Vukovar, that Vukovar was then spoken of by the age-old Serbian city and that today's authorities in the Republic of Serbia had not reconciled to the defeat of the Serbian politics, that is, according to what counterpart Ingrid Anticevic said in Croatia, it proves that Tomislav Nikolic is the Serbian city and that the Croats have nothing to return to. I repeat the question asked by my colleague Pupovac, did the first Croatian exiles in Vukovar in 1997 welcome the inscriptions on Cyrillic or Latin? Was Cyrillic then used only as a letter or was it symbolically proof of the Serb character of Vukovar? It should be noted that before the aggression in Vukovar there were no bilingual inscriptions, but all the inscriptions of state, city institutions, names of squares, streets were in Croatian and Latin letters. Because of everything I have stated and told the reasonable one, it seemed that the full application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, and as regards the exercise of the right to the official use of Serbian and Cyrillic letters in the city of Vukovar, was delayed until the next census of the population of the Republic of Croatia. So that was the proposal for a conclusion. This would show the following, that we are sympathetic to the Vukovars and their legitimate demands and that we understand that the common lives of all citizens, regardless of nationality, are key national interests, and this is also the subject of Article 8. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. To support the opening of not only parliamentary but also wider public debates for the declaration of Vukovar as a special pitet, and as far as I can see, most of the club's representatives spoke positively in this regard, and that in normal procedure and friendly atmosphere in cooperation with the Vukovars, therefore, regardless of nationality, in cooperation with defenders and losers and not against them, as so far, we are considering and defining the best legal solutions that will prevent new trauma to Vukovar and create better assumptions for its development and functioning, functional interpersonal and international relations. I would like to remove all abuses in the application and check-out process by the new census because they were also rooted in manipulation by collecting census data in 2011. And I would personally like to confirm our deepest human connection to Vukovar, which is not determined by narrow day-to-day political interests but by love and respect for those who suffered terrible suffering 20 and more years ago, but today, believe them. And finally, let's not put the law blindly in front of a man. Let us not forget that man must be a measure of every law because a law that does not bring peace to people and prosperity is not a age of law. He's a colleague of the Mlakars.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116209	Second part on behalf of the club, respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After this first part, I'd say the emotional one that has to touch everyone I might be speaking dryly on behalf of the club about what we think is the problem with proposing these two laws. We were informed of the conclusion proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system in which it is said to propose that these laws go, it seems to me both, in the first reading. I am delighted that the emergency procedure can sometimes go to first reading, and that is also to commend the promoter who gave up the emergency procedure if I understand well and the committee who suggested it. The second committee proposed, or said in its report, that the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities is brought to the two-thirds majority of all MPs and the other on the local supranational. We believe that the Constitutional Committee has made a mistake. We propose, given that such a text is the conclusion that the Constitutional Court is addressed because we claim that both of these laws should be passed by a supra-al majority of all MPs. That such a foothold is the same in the Constitution, the only difference is that our foothold is Article 83, but not paragraph 1 but paragraph 2 of that same article, which says that individual human rights issues are governed by laws that are passed by a half-dominated majority of all MPs. Given that this outwitting, and it started all if you're going to remember the government's sessions when the Prime Minister said in one of his playbooks that it takes a two-thirds majority and that we need to see how we're going to pass this law by looking for the responsibilities of the opposition parties in Parliament to pass this law, we have to tell him that he was wrong. He was wrong again, neither was his administration minister, who claims he needs a two-thirds majority. Neither is that majority of us in the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. But since our arguments are always somewhere on the sidelines we suggest that the Constitutional Court make its decision and then we will no doubt know whether we have adopted the law proposed properly. This is what seems to me formally legally important for the adoption of the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters. According to us, the constitutional article 83 paragraph 2 lays the foundation for not going into further discussion as to why they used to be different. All this is worth it because we hold that Article 1 is respected by the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and there these rights are regulated and, laterly, so to speak to ordinary laws, these rights are elaborated. In the human rights system, no doubt minority rights are part of a broader concept of human rights. And now a few words again about these two laws. When you read both the texts then you'll see what we said, I don't want it to sound bad, I just want to further strengthen the arguments why these laws are being passed in this way. The law on the use of language and letters of national minorities and the law on local self-government is changing, it is clear from the text of the law, only because of the case of the city of Vukovar. Only because of the fact that there is a city council in the city of Vukovar that is not at our government's disposal because it makes decisions or the government is afraid that it could make decisions that the government holds against its expectations. And the government has decided in a brutal way to resolve this issue by passing these two laws. We lost the election, we lost the mayor, we can't run the city council, so we found reasons to disband the city council. Therefore, the Law on Local Self-Government, which has only four articles and the only relevant article, is adopted in Article 2 of that Act, in Article 84(6) of the Law, to replace the point with a comma, and then add a new point 7 which reads: if the General Act does not regulate the rights of national minorities or regulates them contrary to the specific rules governing the rights of national minorities. So if they are not arranged or arranged by a different city council, they will be disbanded. In the unit in which the representative body is disbanded in accordance with this article, which I have read the rights of national minorities, the Commissioner of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will arrange. That's why we said this law was not in accordance with the Constitution. The right to local self-government is laid down and protected by the Constitution of the Law on Local Self-Government and what is the original business of local self-government is now being taken over by the Government as its mandate, which is not passed on to its Commissioner, who, because of the lack of a decision on the use of language and letter, the Government will disband the City Council, appoint the Commissioner and now a fantastic turn, for the first time, the Commissioner will have authority over the city council to decide on the official use of language and letter of national minorities. I would like to remind you, there have been six reasons for disbanding municipal or city councils so far: budgeting, not counting everything, is one to make a decision that is contrary to the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia. And in this case, if a city council or municipal council makes a decision that is contrary to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia will be dissolved, but possibly appointed Prime Minister will not be able to make a decision based on the law instead. And by doing so, the government has shown that in this particular case it is more important for her to regulate the use, official use of the language and letters of the national minority than the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, because in the event of a violation of the sovereignty of such dragon penalties for the bodies of local self-government, representative bodies do not exist. Of course, it immediately associated me with the fact that the City of Vukovar and the far east of our country still have no state border resolved with the Republic of Serbia, that still our citizens owning the country located on the Danube or across the Danube cannot use their property because we have not solved border relations with the Republic of Serbia. Often, Danube ade is mentioned in public, according to many calculations, more Croatian-owned countries exist on the Serbian side than is the other way around, but these were not issues that interested the government. The government was interested in finding ways to disband the City Council of the City of Vukovar and how to impose solutions that did not bring pleasure to our government. When you just read and amend the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters you will see that it was a motive, everything else is technical corrections and repairs. It was the only motive to pass this law, so in some way dealing with the city of Vukovar. But that is not all, it is very interesting to find that one article that has not changed in the Law on Official Use of Language and the letter is an article which speaks in the current law that this right is recognised to members of a national minority who makes up more than half of the population of a particular unit of local self-government. Proposers do not now propose to amend this Article 4 of the existing law, but they say that this article has ceased to exist by adopting a constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. The constitutional law of truth regulates this issue differently, does not require a half-way but 1/3 members of the national minority, but in this way as it is established in your material, the law cannot technically be changed. Now it's just a question of who needs it, and what does the government have to do after all she's failed to do in these two years since we've reached our conclusion finds this model of problem solving in the city of Vukovar? This is definitely not going to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116211	Thank you very much. We're going to the replicas of the esteemed representative Zvonko Milas. Damir Rimac, the first, respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116212	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Milas, it's an interesting rhetoric you used in your presentation, and I didn't really intend to pollute with you or anyone at all, but for the simple reason I have to. So, the rhetoric that you and your colleague behind you use is violence against the Vukovars, a reckoning. Your colleague, the president of the HDZ, is calling for a new Homeland War, so it's all a bit of a bit of a one I dare say wartime wartime termology, and that is the least we need right now. So I'm saying this primarily as someone who lives near Vukovar, someone who thinks the city of Vukovar is another city because the Vinkovci are only 20 km away and everything that the city of Vukovar has been through during the Homeland War we've been through in Vinkovci. So very concretely, the city of Vukovar issue, the question of bilingualism, the question of all the things in which it has been said lately is absolutely politicised by the HDZ and I am responsible for the objective information of the Croatian public, because in the Croatian Parliament we have been hearing about it for a very long time, and in the last three years very intensely. So it is quite understandable for me that HDZ needs to radicalise political events in Vukovar because it is the only way to actually keep the public awake, because for Slavons and Vukovars and Vinkovčana and in general people living in the east of Croatia such topics are not as ridiculous as Boric is now very uncomfortable here. So back to It's an important thing. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] That's where I'm gonna stop because I went too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116213	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Zvonko Milas. I saw from the body's speech that he was going to give a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Roman, I didn't mention the reckoning, you didn't hear, and the violence did. And what else is wrong with you than violence when you're trying to paroleally resolve protests with police cordons, with people who don't have half their heads today, who aren't even 10% of what you call them? And you're saying it's a war-torn rhetoric. Well, I'm thinking the other way around. And don't be angry with Vinkovci, I respect them very much, I lived for 30 years right next to them, but in the Homeland War, Vinkovci were about 20 miles away, about 200 miles or light-years, Vukovar and Vinkovci. I hope you know what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116215	Thank you very much. We're going to the replica of the respected representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116216	Sir, I'm going to repeat once more my dear colleague, Milas. Well, Miles, I'm talking to Milas. [[Intruder president: Milasu, Milasu.]] Since you spoke about the census, you should do it again. I was already talking today about this report, the dealings of the census, and these reports say that it was a census check and that everything was done according to the census. I'm sorry, colleague Miles. I know you're from Vukovar. I'm sorry you're not with us in Vukovar and you know how hard it is to live there right now. I know you have, that you absolutely do not come to Vukovar and you know that the city of Vukovar will not say it full, but that there are many Cyrillic inscriptions in Vukovar, in the baroque core of the city of Vukovar. What if it doesn't, what, are we going to vote on those Paunovic signs on the houses? We want the Vukovar City Museum to change some rooms again, say, like a press room or something. As for the signs, even though I saw it today, there were a lot of interventions here. Look at the directive. Exposure of public institutions, enterprises and other administrative bodies to bilingual 20.8.'97. He's signing William Walker. So let me tell you, since '97. For years, bilingually in Vukovar, not only in Vukovar, but the entire UNTS region began to set up bilingual tables. So, not after four, five years, but since '97. It's been years and there hasn't been any problem. I'd like you to live what I say today in Vukovar, I know your family lives there, I know your loved ones are there, and I know how you feel. But let's work things out together just like we did in '97. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116217	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Montenegrin, you see, I lived in Vukovar when you didn't. At that time we're mentioned today, and I don't know if anyone of your family lived in Vukovar at the time. You're living a nice life today. I'm glad to hear that. Today you live and talk about what I dare say you have no idea. So it's not true to be '97. changed any board. The first plate has been changed, check it isn't difficult in the tenth month of '99. A year. So almost two years after the start of peaceful reintegration. And the end of the change of those plates none of which were on the Latin, so here I was going to ask, and where was the Latin letter concerned? Does anyone care about that letter all those years? And release the documents, it's easy to check everything. Just check it out! And in 2001 or others ended up changing records. So it didn't work out overnight because we said that once the Prime Minister said that we were generous as a people, because we didn't want to destroy such a fragile peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116219	Thank you very much. Now we'll go to the replicas of all six replicas of the esteemed colleague Davorina Mlakar. The first replica and respected representative of Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116220	Dear colleague Mlakar, I will immediately go to replication to have enough time to provide objective information to the public, especially you, because I see that it is hurting you. I spent the entire war in Vinkovci, not the Munchen War, as some of your fellow HDZ MPs sitting in the Assembly today, and it is known that the Homeland War was spent in Germany or somewhere else. But let's get back to the scale of things. It is very interesting how you interpreted very easily who is and who is wrong in the Republic of Croatia and how you put yourself in a position to interpret absolutely all the provisions of both the Government and the Croatian Parliament. So, according to the old people's "cadiya sues you, cadiya sues you." But let me quote one part of your speech. Says the city council is not by decision of this new government and everything needs to be disbanded by the City Council for some reason. In this form you quoted, or mentioned. I don't know if I've got it right, but I'm curious as to why you haven't been so keenly defending the interests of the city of Vukovar when you and your colleagues from the HDZ changed the status of the city of Vukovar, and when we have to do the same for objective information to all the Croatian public, to say that the statute has changed because of HDZ. And look at the wonders for a few years you've been wanting to change it again because you're not satisfied with these provisions now. Come to Vukovar, visit him sometime. My colleague Milos is always in Vukovar, I usually go once or twice a week when I'm down in Slavonia. Come and talk to people about how these young people live. The HDZ responds to polarisation, especially of younger people because you radicalize tensions. You have Serbian in Vukovar and you have Croatian cafes. You have Serbian and you have Croatian shops. People don't hang out there, come over there. And just for the end, Mr. President, please read the book of the first Croatian President of Parliament, Mr. Žarko Domljan, because inside you will find very much about continuity... [[Leko: Thank you very much.]] Especially the HDZ policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116221	Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116222	My dear fellow Roman, the situation is serious, and I don't know why you're nervous. What you started to say is that you replicated someone else. I didn't mention where you were during either war before or after. Secondly, I thank you for inviting me to Vukovar. I went to Vukovar with a special escort while we were conducting a peaceful reintegration of Eastern Slavonia, I didn't see you there, and you don't have to bother calling me now because I did my part of the work as Vukovar concerns and peaceful reintegration. As for radicalization and that easy speech, you can discuss arguments with me. Spitting without any arguments makes no sense. I have made arguments why we claim that something is legal or not, and you have to try a little bit more than these principled slaps you like to share, work harder and get into trouble and then discuss the real achievements of each of these laws. I'm behind what I said. You guys, when you're doing such a big show, check the Constitutional Court for what I was talking about most of the law-making stuff. And we all have the opportunity to refer a provision to the Commissioner who brings the documents to the City Council, to evaluate them in that section whether the law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. These are the arguments, what you're talking about Munich, the Vinkovci and Vukovar it's kind of convenient for an illustration, but it has nothing to do with what I was talking about except trying to do, but you failed to insult me. That's what you need arguments for, not a dirty way of saying it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116223	Thank you very much. My fellow Roman, we heard everything you wanted to say in your replica. We are now going to ask our esteemed colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, to present the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Mlakar, you are saying that the Government is carrying out violence with this bill and is counting, especially with Vukovar. In 2009, the HDZ Government submitted a report to the Assembly on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and immediately boasted that the Government, the HDZ Government, had adopted an Action Plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law establishing measures, holders, deadlines and resources. And that's what all the ministries and other state bodies are in charge of. The implementation of the Constitutional Law is further stated, as well as the implementation of obligations under international contracts, etc. On page 2. 8th of this report, which has 432 pages right below the 1st point, is the use and implementation of the language and letter of national minorities, boast among other things that the city of Vukovar has applied, but you say that you will take measures, you were then and you were the minister particularly apostrophe of the Ministry of Administration, against all those and carry out administrative oversight against all those who have not done so before. So, a colleague of mine has a lot more to do with it, so I'm just gonna point you to a little more. 8 of that 2009 report. Therefore, there is no violence or reckoning with anyone in these bill proposals or clues. But hypocrisy has plenty.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116225	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116226	Oh, my fellow Anticevic, I'm unusually fond of discussing with you. I can't track the material that you read, 470 pages I really don't know. But I can tell you what I remember and what I know. I've been a minister of administration and I've mostly dealt with management unlike you in your term of office, but that's less important. Yeah, we've been law enforcement, and even if that's how you want to force local self-government units that didn't respect the law to... Okay, maybe you should concentrate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] She doesn't care! So where the law spoke of equal representation of members of national minorities on the adoption of statutes with certain provisions, we asked all units to comply. And it has nothing to do with what you just read. But it has to do with something else, in 2009, and you like to see me keep coming back for a few years, the SDP was against those same norms in the Statute of the city of Vukovar for which you are now very much in favour. Therefore, you will allow a banally simple logical figure. If the SDP as a party unrelentingly ruling in the country currently has the right to change your mind, allow others to do the same. But if you think that an opinion as a criticism must not be changed, then you must not do it either. So consider in your replicas what you were doing at the time, what others were doing. When you draw the line, I'm afraid you'll go very badly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116227	Only people can change their minds because no one else has the ability to think. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116228	Thank you very much. A fellow Mlakar listening to your debate since it is quite common in the Croatian Parliament to bring lex specialises this would be really to suggest that perhaps by amendment that you propose an amendment to lex specialis Vukovaris. So the government knows exactly what he's doing. And actually Vukovar is a living wound to SDP's policy and failure at that local level. We know about the mayor, we know about the composition of the city council, we know about the new mayor of Vukovar, I'm talking about what happened, and it's actually a political shower to the Kukuriku coalition state in Vukovar, I'm talking about the political state. But what really hurts me is that this attempt and this insistence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not actually respect the thousands of people who have been executed, thousands of mothers who are crying and bereaved, nothing about Vukovar is respected. And if you and I were to propose together this particular moratorium of those 10 years and that, we tried in a peaceful, dignified, cultural, decent way to fix some things. This is indeed violence over, so look to disband the local council that a governor or commissioner would only change or apply the Law on the Use of Language and Letters, only for that, for nothing more. So, that Cyrillic will if this law goes that way, and it won't win in peace and it's lost in the war. That's the goal of someone who enforces this law without ever smelling gunpowder without ever smelling blood that was up to their ankles in the O.R. when I was a surgeon and when hundreds of wounded people came from the battlefield both in Vukovar and in Brod and everywhere. These are the laws they have never seen before.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116229	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague Grubisic. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116230	My colleague Grubisic, you have now encouraged me to do a replica based on what this government is doing persistently since it presented in Parliament. He designs laws according to his own very often narrow needs. So let's remember the monarchist law for mayors and mayors called Lex Komadin when you can pass your election victory on to deputies without having to go to new elections. So now I don't want to keep counting the laws, so it doesn't turn out because they already told me not to say everything I'm saying, that we're either laughing dangerously or I don't know what the term was, so we're gonna hold back. Therefore, the whole series of examples on which we can show you how this government works, unfortunately I keep wondering what kind of state we are that in the Parliament we must fight the rulings and prove what it is in the Croatian Homeland War, which is Vukovar in the memory of Croatian people because it is the only thing that is possible in this House to slap you, slap you, or so to say that it kicks whoever it wants. Recently, a colleague calls the Croatian people stupid by telling us jokes from this pay phone. Now we have to fight here all day to tell the rulings no, you won't do what you intend to do from Vukovar, this is the law for the City of Vukovar because you don't feel comfortable with the current political situation in Vukovar, and you're guilty of it yourself. You had a political majority in Vukovar and lost. Who's to blame? You'll remember Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116231	It's an old sentence. Dear Representative Dragan Montenegrin Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116232	Dear Mr. Mlakar, several times the 2009 statute is mentioned. The City Council of the City of Vukovar, then joined the amendments to the Statutes of the City of Vukovar in 2009, following local elections. At the time, I was a member of that council even though now the SDP is talking about it and it tells you they're not even what you say there's so much that you've done. However, I would ask you the next thing. So when we adopted such a statute that ended in the Ministry of Administration at the time of the State Administration, you Mr. Mlakar at the time, or you did not change that article of the Statute, I assume, because you believe that it is in accordance with the law, with constitutional law, with international agreements and with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So then the Statute of the City of Vukovar. I hope that even today you think that this statute is in line with all these documents that I'm talking about, I'll remind you then there was, and then I'm interested in the 2001 census, if you didn't then estimate that he was not in line with these documents, why didn't you put these articles out of force, or did you have any political pressure on you to release such a statute?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116233	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116234	I don't understand the captivities of your question, my fellow Montenegrin, but I think I've listened very carefully to everything you've said here now that you've been a member of the city council, that I, as a minister, had the right to control the provisions of the statutes and I haven't abolished them. You got a problem with that? We didn't remove them because we thought they were properly brought. What you're saying about the census, I have to correct your last list was in 2011. That's 10 years later. 10 years later, the census is for the first time in Croatia by the second methodology, do you know that? Not all students who study outside their permanent residence are included in this census, not all those we call gasters living outside their place of residence because they work elsewhere, etc. etc. And that's why that census shows some other size. It's not even that problem, the problem is that those who have the right to say that they claim that the list of people for Vukovar has not been accurately implemented. They took examples of where the government went to correct voters' lists, i.e. on the basis of the census, to correct the list of voters, for example in Vrgorec. Your question is a brain site, but it's completely misdirected. And you and I know if you want me to tell you here, that a whole series of people who are registered with a home in Vukovar don't live there and that's the key problem. But you never had the strength as I tell you what our weaknesses are to admit and say is alive outside Vukovar and only to the elections there come.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116235	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Krnić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116236	Your Honor. Dear Mr. Mlakar. Today we've been listening to one word from you, the government is in the way of the Council in Vukovar, the government is being disturbed by the Council in Vukovar. You're well paid for your job so you can keep yelling and it's your obligation as an opposition. I think as ruling for many years in Croatia, you could solve a lot of problems in this country because you know that this way of talking here in this honorable House is over people's heads. What's the problem with bringing something to a two-thirds majority, and you're resisting it in the Constitutional Court. What's the problem? Do we want to solve the problem for the mutual satisfaction of all the Vukovars or do we not want to solve and not just the Vukovars but everything? I don't see it at all with you. And on the respect of the institution, colleague Milas was with me on Sunday where we both honored a great Croatian defender. Your HDZ colleagues know how the institutions of this state operate, and I come by the announcement of my colleague, Miles, he gave a speech, he gave the mayor what is normal, the representative of the President of the Parliament, not the President. Name and last name are not mentioned which envoy and how only the name and last name and the Croatian Parliament. Croatian Parliament someone... because the problem with your colleagues at local level? At the local level, is it a problem for your colleagues to recognise the institution of the Croatian Parliament and whom is it that I am from another political option? I have my name and last name, title, and what I'm doing, it's a minimum minimum, and that didn't happen. The president's envoy was appointed, and he knows who he came from. So much for respecting these institutions. As long as we're fighting luck like this, we're out of luck. People are full of suitcases. I'm asking for some seriousness.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116237	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116238	Dear colleague, I've come to understand from your replica if I've been following you well. I didn't follow well. ... You know I'm not well, then I followed you badly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The first problem is my high salary because I kept repeating the same word. It seems to me that you've been listening selectively, you've been weakly following everything I've been saying today about this subject. Secondly, as far as the protocol is concerned, and where they allowed you or made it impossible for you to speak to me really, but there's absolutely nothing to do with it at a time when I was in executive power and even less today. But if you've had a problem with that, then you're just a little bit of a need to look away and possibly refer that question to Minister Bauku. I can't help you with my best wishes, but if you were an emissary of someone else's and they didn't let you speak it's certainly a matter that should be resolved in an adequate and decent manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116239	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116240	Comrade Mlakar, it seems to me that at least it is not fair that any parliamentary representative, starting from me to you, is trying to exploit the victim and the tragedy of Vukovar in order to acquire petty political short-term party points. It seems to me that each of us, when talking about Vukovar, should speak with a respect that is not worth it so that another attack, that he hates, doesn't love and respect Vukovar and his victim because you disagree with the proposal of another political option. Well, it was about us or you as a political option. I think today we're talking about one question that's a civilization issue, and it's deeply emotional, is it about Vukovar, not to say why we all know. But it seems to me that it's a difficult qualification when you say that this government doesn't care about sovereignty or that you care less about the sovereignty of the country than you do about the right of some national minority to use its language. I don't think you can rank that. Everything is important in a civilized country and a struggle for democracy and the rights of every man, every ethnic, etc. The group is also a struggle for the sovereignty of that state, just like when you defend its territory and defend its democratic character to defend the sovereignty of that state in its deep essence. Europe has allowed Italy, which was among the fascist countries 15 years after World War II, to organise the Olympic Games and thus try to say that we must not forget some things but prevail.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116241	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116242	I don't know why it's necessary, but I think you're a little out of focus. I didn't talk about hate at all today, nor did I use those words. Because I was talking about the sovereignty of the state in an example that you completely misunderstood. I'm talking about today's proposal for two laws proposed by your government. And you're attacking me because of the fact that these are the solutions your government has offered. And I am from the point of view of us in opposition trying to explain why these legal texts are not good. From the fact that you can't find out just because some norm has ceased to apply, it's not technically correct to the fact that you have 7 reasons for disbanding the city council, one is if you make a decision that opposes the sovereignty of the state. And I say in that case, the Commissioner can't change that decision, but when it comes to language and letter, he can. I don't know if repeating it leads to you understanding me better, but you're using a replica to paralyze with me about something that wasn't the contents of my speech. I stood up for exactly what you're saying, for tolerance, for solving the problem but in an adequate way. What was offered as a solution, believe me, is not an adequate way and I have suggested, and given the conclusions we have heard from some committees to try, given that we do not trust ourselves from the Constitutional Court to get an opinion as to how true or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116243	Thank you very much. We've finished the replicas and the answers to the replica. And now on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Proposer of the Minister of Administration Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116244	... A fellow Mlakar with several skilled rhetorical figures motivated me to try to explain a few things so you can also deny it, yes. [[Specially enabled.]] So, as far as this game is concerned, it's about making a decision on sovereignty, or not making a decision. So if the City Council or the Municipal Council or the County Assembly makes a decision that is contrary to the constitution and threatens sovereignty then it is not the Commissioner who will put it out of force but the central authority of the state administration under the law of supervision and it is immediately necessary that the Commissioner... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Second. The problem is that the commissioner makes a decision that is within the city council's jurisdiction, also problematic, because when the city council is disbanded because of the budget, the commissioner makes a decision on temporary financing based on what is being financed by the city. Therefore, that argument that the Commissioner cannot stand anything, the Commissioner can do what the Parliament does to him. There is a key question as to whether the disbanding of the councils is a real measure, proportionate, etc. And we can discuss it. But as I already said in the introduction, so a decision to change the statutes must be made. If that's not going to bring the city council, then let's determine who's going to bring it to the state, whether the county assembly or the central government and solve that issue then. So that's a question for discussion if you're willing to discuss it. As regards Article 4 which speaks of the required majority. So you said that by constitutional law it was changed. No, the Constitutional Law has amended a provision that speaks of how many members of the minority should be required to use language and letter but is put out of force in the transitional and final provisions of that law in Article 43. So he had already been laid down by law out of force exactly that item in the transitional provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities so that it should not once again be put out of force, he was put out of force by a special other law. I don't know if it's nomotechnically correct, but there are now these rules that the Legislative Committee has given to write. But in other cases, they are placed outside the scope of the provisions of other laws. I can now remember the pay base law where one part of the Public Sector Payments Act is put out of force. Thus, such a nomotechnical practice was during your time as a minister, that is, when the government passed. As for the adoption of the statutes and that the SDP was against it, HDZ proves only one more absurdity. If I have followed the debate well, those who have proposed the law feel that it should be passed by two thirds and thus make it difficult for those who oppose the law to say that it should be passed by a simple majority and thus facilitate its adoption. It's really still, it's only then the continuity of what was with the statute. So if the Law on the Use of Language and Letters can be passed by simple majority, then I think it would be good for the Parliament to task the Government to pass a whole new law and prescribe brand-new terms of use of language and letter. Because obviously the one from 2000 isn't exactly, that's what we'll be very happy to do. Thus, it can be part of the conclusion. And as for the number of voters in Vukovar and comparisons with Vrgorec, so very, very transparent. The list of people in Vukovar in 2011 identified the number of 23,000 and 0.18 full-time residents, and at the time there were 32 thousand and 205 adult citizens, which means that 9 thousand 187 voters in 2011 were more in Vukovar than there were lists of adult residents. Therefore, the Croats were 1870, excuse me, after we brought them, after we had established the register of voters was defined, i.e. we found that there were 13 thousand 203 Croats in the census and in the register of voters 16 thousand 427, which means that 3 thousand 224 Croats were more in the census than in the census. And about four thousand and 87 Serbs. So in the number, it's just more Serbs 4000 and 3 thousand 200 Croats and 2 thousand others. And compared to the total number, the fact is that members of the Serb minority are slightly higher because of the 8 thousand and the Croats 13. So these are the numbers that were in 2011, and now the number is twice as small because in the meantime 5,000 voters have been deleted from the voters' list so that the number has been reduced now, and is likely to be further reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116245	Davorin's Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116246	Please, Minister, don't just bomb yourself with numbers. Our experience suggests that we are not sure when we listen to you how much 10% of the total number of voters are needed to find themselves in individual elections, but it is neither a topic nor important for this debate today. I'll just tell you briefly why these figures are not relevant at all for this debate or are correct, because all those you have on the list of voters don't have to be declared Serbs at all, and you're talking about the exact number of Serbs on the voters list. It's not necessary, they don't have to declare themselves that way and none of them can even ask for it. Secondly, you're surprised at the whole time when you came for this pay phone that we're doing, as it was in 2009, are one for, the other against, whether 2/3 is necessary or not. There are institutions that can solve all these issues because in our case, I'd say in public I'd suspect that we're advocating ourselves, someone said that, for cheap political points, and then we use the arguments only part of those laws that come in favor of us. If that's not the case, I'm willing to test my opinion by proposing that the Constitutional Court speak its own on what number of MPs it takes to get these laws passed and we'll find it much easier to do so. You've confused some things by counting how laws were passed before the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, before those amendments to the 2000 Constitution, but that's irrelevant. Let's find the best solution and quite certainly what you've offered by disbanding the council is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116247	Replication response, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116248	I agree in principle, and in general with your finding that there are institutions that will ultimately determine how many votes it takes for this law to be passed, as you must agree with me then that the institutions who have said how many voters are exactly and that should decide how many votes are required for this law, and then I don't see why you call me that I did something wrong when I only prescribed from you in that case. ... So in that sense, here I now realize that you've been abolized by responsibility even though I've never been responsible for it, about the number of voters needed for the referendum. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Today it's about 381,000, and at that moment it was... And we have together? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, we've settled it. [[No, every one of your own.]] As for the one who voted for the statutes, I myself leaned upon your line Mrs. Antičević-Marinović when you so did not open that topic. And we still have to discuss it when we finish all these procedural and emotional discussions that we have heard today that we are actually working together on what is an appropriate legal mechanism that will allow law enforcement when the city councils obstruct its implementation. Whether it's a disbandment or not, whether it's a multi-level adoption by the principle of subsidiarity or what it's called, we can discuss it, but ultimately we can discuss whether the law in the use of language and letter is good and whether it needs to be changed. We can discuss that too, so let's discuss this. We've had one reading, we've had a chance on board, so we haven't because you haven't come and we're here to discuss it, here's the debate that's been going on for seven hours, so we can still discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116249	Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116250	This is about the application and whether the Commissioner should have such powers. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a commitment to provide guidance on the consistent application of the language and letters of national minorities. That document I believe is very little known to the MPs. Why was it brought in? Well, first of all, I think it was one of the measures of the Republic of Croatia's action plan, and the other is because it was not applied on the ground. So as we know, the Croatian roads did not apply the law, regardless of now whether it refers to the City of Vukovar or not, and therefore it was also mandatory to prescribe a guideline. Now I ask you, who respects this instruction, Mr. Minister, and whether such political acts are enough to enforce the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116251	Minister Arsen Bauk, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116252	I must say that I am not satisfied with how state institutions and state-owned companies, and especially Croatian roads, respect and implement the guidance. I know that after a long insistence in the municipality of Donji Lapac at the entrance to the settlement were first, these are not traffic signs, it is a sign of entering a bilingual place and I hope that soon they will set up in other municipalities and cities that according to the constitutional law and according to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters meet the conditions to set it up. So we have in Baranja several, or almost everywhere where the second language is Hungarian, in Istria where the second language is Italian and for now in Lower Lapca where the second language is Serbian. In other units of local self-government regarding the Croatian roads there is therefore no, and especially as far as the county road administrations are concerned, there are no bilingual inscriptions on the entrance to the inhabited area and I think it is also the merit of Croatian roads getting packed in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116253	On behalf of the club of independent representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116254	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. So we've actually got a lot of work to do but I think on behalf of my club I can find out that unfortunately we're not going to solve anything today, and we're not going to solve anything eventually when it's voted. But it's good and it's good that we're exchanging opinions here. And it would be good if at least at first we had agreed on the number of votes needed to amend and supplement the Law on the Language and Letter of National Minorities, i.e. the right to language and letter, would be necessary. We've consulted some constitutional and legal experts at the club. I think some recently wrote about it, and they also refer to article 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which guarantees its rights to national minorities, but also Article 83(1), which requires the majority to pass laws, i.e. amending and supplementing the law of this law relating to the rights of national minorities, to require a two-thirds majority. However, we also agree with all those who believe that this should be done if there is doubt, if we are not able to listen and use our legal skills to ask the institution which finally gave one of the contributions to this debate, which is the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. And we propose that one of the conclusions of this debate be and that the Croatian Parliament send a request for, that the Constitutional Court give us the answer to that question as soon as possible. For the Constitutional Court, it's a very simple question. I repeat, constitutional-legal experts, I will not name them now because I don't think there's any need for that. But it is known which experts in the Republic of Croatia are extremely recognised as regards constitutional law. Some of them expressed their views on it and in interviews, in response to the questions of journalists when asked about it, and of course you can find colleagues and colleagues. Of course it would be good if we had discussed this proposal on the agenda since September 2013. And of course at this point to discuss it almost makes no sense, but we are discussing here in a broader context and the government's proposal, but also the Constitutional Court's decision. What I dare say for this speaker is that none of these problems that the Constitutional Court has referred to on our request, the Croatian Parliament's request that the Constitutional Court decide on the constitutionality of the referendum issue, regardless of how many of our citizens and citizens have signed it. So nothing's going to get rid of it. The very fact that it is and it is good and I commend it, that it is accepted that these laws go into two readings, that there is no consensus on which most of the laws that we are changing should be passed. It speaks clearly about this and that we are, of course, at the end of the summer period, that we have very, very little time since the autumn because there will come a moment when the Croatian Parliament will disband in this meeting and I am almost certain that we will not make decisions based on the guidance of the Constitutional Court and that it will remain in the air and that all open questions will not be opened, but actually the problems that arise from the open question will improve. Because what's gonna happen? The Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, will not repeat that I am convinced to make the final decision, because there are major objections. We personally, too, personally believe that this proposal on the disbanding of the city council is absolutely not the happiest solution, that some other solutions should be sought. And what's going to happen? Probably also, according to the Constitutional Court, the city of Vukovar, or the City Council, will adopt the Statute and then we will have the Statute with which I hope everyone will be pleased. But of course, the question is what can happen if the Statute is not satisfied with everyone, and a law that could possibly react in that case, of course, will not be. Political elites have shown here in these three years, three and a half political elites here, I mean, of course, all MPs and MPs and the government, but also many others, have failed to solve this problem that seemed to us as we negotiated to join the EU that it was fully resolved, that there was not a single open question at least when it comes to large issues because we had the Constitutional Law and that, early in the debate, another colleague, Lesar, questioned it. It is true and it can be reaffirmed that it was one of the important and sometimes resilient issues in Chapter XXIII. but also in some others. We were asked to implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. We had to send very often reports on not only how the law is implemented, but how some decisions have been implemented, unfortunately the consequences of the war and the consequences of the aggression on Croatia. However, we have, of course, met this in line with not only any requirements from Brussels, but also with the decision to make Croatia a member of the European Union. I will now refer to the Constitutional Court's decision, which we have asked for an assessment of the constitutionality of the referendum issue and expected a decision that will eventually close all these too often very painful issues. But what happened? The Constitutional Court made a decision on the ban on referendums but that decision did not resolve dilemmas, however, the Constitutional Court actually dared to say in some segments that each person could take what he liked and with the arguments that everyone could interpret in his own way. If you remember a reaction from the city of Vukovar, the mayor at that time and many others, including members of the Serb national minority, all were in fact partially dissatisfied, little part satisfied and all more or less attacked the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And everyone, of course, with arguments that could be accepted as very valid and that's one of the problems that I see especially great in this whole debate. And I'm sure that the Constitutional Court was then decided when he ordered, ordered, demanded that you take some of the government's actions as well as the Vukovar City Council that the Constitutional Court should have decidedly articulated it. I will therefore read some parts of that Constitutional Court decision because the Constitutional Court clearly states that Article 3. The Constitution prescribes that among other things national equality, respect for human rights and the rule of law are the highest values of constitutional order, and all constitutional values must be achieved without discrimination on any basis. Further says the Constitutional Court of pluralism, tolerance, freedoms are key features of democratic society. Expressing ethnic identity or highlighting minority consciousness is also important for the proper functioning of democracy. Pluralism is built on original recognition and respect for diversity and dynamism. Then they remind us again of Article 15. A constitution I once quoted. But now starting with the fact, the Constitutional Court says, that in the preamble of the Constitution, Croatia's citizens are said to be members of 22 national minorities and then list them. The increase in the threshold for the official use of language and letter required in the proposed referendum issue could not be justified on the basis of the Constitution. But this is still on page 11, page 15. The Constitutional Court says once again that there is no explicit ban on changing the existing threshold for the official use of language and letters of national minorities. So that's something that opens up all the doubts. What do I mean by this? We have ladies and gentlemen the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. And it would be magnificent if we could agree by respecting, of course, everything that happened in Vukovar that is a symbol of both resistance and defense and heroism and heroism and suffering, but also freedoms if we could agree that we are just changing the law in such a way that we enter a provision that, either in some parts of Vukovar or in some segments of the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, this does not apply to the city of Vukovar. If we could do that, and we still need a two-thirds majority because the National Minority Rights Act can only be changed by two-thirds of the majority, then we would finally remove this problem and these problems from the agenda and any possible politicization of Vukovar. It is sad that we have to talk about Vukovar in a context very often in the political struggle that actually triggers the lowest passions and brings us to what we would not say and leads to the worst for Vukovar and Vukovar, which is that none of this debate that we have in the Croatian Parliament of the Vukovars are Croats or those Serbs or members of any other minority living in the area is any better. And after this debate, no job opens, no family who is unfortunately still looking for their missing is happier. So I suggest we try to talk in that direction. Perhaps until the end of this term of this Croatian Assembly, if we could do so, we would be remembered for something important and for something good. Really Vukovar deserves it, it's something that's definitely a fact. And now I return to the Constitutional Court's decision on page 20. The Constitutional Court understands life problems and deep individual and collective traumas of the citizens of the city of Vukovar who root their roots from the devastating Serbian aggression on the city of Vukovar in the conquering war on Croatian territory. But immediately two rows behind it says, however, seeking to call a referendum with a message that a Cyrillic in the city of Vukovar is seen as a symbol of suffering is a deeply disturbing act that attacks a letter as a universal civilizational fluid of humanity that determines itself the identity of the Croatian constitutional state. The message stems from the irrationality to be warned, the Constitutional Court said. Finally, it obliges the City Council to adopt a Statute in which, as the Constitutional Court says, it will respect the individual rights of members of national minorities in an extent that does not endanger the very essence of these rights, etc., obliges the Government but to what? That's what I was talking about today in a replica. It obliges the Government to make sure that, within 1 year of the date of publication of their decision, they are referred to the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the Act on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in which they will arrange an appropriate legal mechanism for cases where representative bodies violate the law or constitutional law. So the Constitutional Court said not that the Government, or the Parliament, solves the problem in a year, but that it has yet to refer to the procedure. The Constitutional Court is likely to know equally that there are options for two or three readings, therefore the Constitutional Court should, with all these arguments and indicate and in which direction decisions should be taken both by the Government and the Croatian Parliament but by the City of Vukovar. Because when the Constitutional Court says that this should be arranged in an appropriate way, I ask what is the appropriate way, how can we, as a legislator, interpret what would be the appropriate way. Finally, the Constitutional Court says it is not a party to political debates, nor is it an arbiter in resolving political disputes. And Professor Smerdel, a really important constitutional legal expert, says the Constitutional Court must make or the Constitutional Court makes difficult political decisions, here is the morning list 2.5.2015. So, of course, I wouldn't want this to be understood as any criticism, I just read some decisions and finally the instructions of the Constitutional Court which, as we can see, respect the constitutional law, respect and Cyrillic, respect of course and the suffering of the Croatian people and in Vukovar. And so, on the trail of all this I repeat, let us try to agree that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities introduce the speciality of Vukovar, Vukovar as a city, symbols, if you will the symbols of Croatia. And finally, there was a lot of words here about what someone gave and how many times in Vukovar and so on. Here I was in Vukovar at the time when General Klein was there who often took me off the list for various reasons, and in the memory column of the 98th and I never missed. And that's why when I'm uncomfortable with politicians, it doesn't apply to any of you in this assembly today, but to some who were in the memory column for the first time in 2014 and, of course, publicly admitted it to us, and then to all of us who have been there since 98 years and many times before, and who we know how hard it is and that none of these wounds to the end of Vukovar have been cured and that, of course, there is tension, and that it's hard for mothers who are still looking for their sons to meet some people and some of the neighbors who know they've been telling theirs, who have been taken from big traffic or from other places to camps in Serbia that they haven't returned from. So a little less passion around Vukovar. Of course, emotions can never be removed, but I will remember in the end again as often as this speaker says Dr. Tudjman 97.When we arrived on a peace train in Vukovar which is there at a broken station that has not been restored to this day and that is one lesson to all of us that we have been doing all these years. We have a train station the way it was when we got there, nothing was done, that called for us to work together and who said a winner who can't forgive sows the cry of a new evil. I believe that here's the word of Dr. Tudjman who, without a doubt, was also in the decision on peaceful reintegration and on all other decisions concerning the end of the war, the release and the defense knew what to do and showed not only that he was a visionary but that he was a statesman in the right sense of that word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116255	Joseph Salapic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116256	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Kosor, I agree with you, and we have already commented in one part of the debate today on the Constitutional Court's decision, it is extensive but gives the possibility of interpreting which is ambiguous and can be one way or the other. And I agree with you that the problem will not be solved in this way because the Constitutional Court has partially adopted the request, the problem, discussed and transferred the hot potato to the City Council of Vukovar and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and now the Government of the Republic of Croatia is returning it in a way that I do not agree with this law in these rigorous provisions, I think there are easier mechanisms for the law to be implemented in its full scope but that it is not, however, avoiding most voters when it comes to the selection of bodies representative at any level. Now, why this was interpreted as being so, and you said that some constitutional legal experts said that a two-thirds majority was needed, but still that the government was in the interest of solving the problem in a faster way and taking responsibility for the situation that occurred in Vukovar was also those who interpreted that there was no need for a two-thirds majority and even some who belong to constitutional legal experts and have some knowledge of constitutional law. Therefore, this law will not be passed in this term of the Croatian Parliament because there will be parliamentary elections and that responsibility will be transferred to the future Croatian government it is obvious now because if this is the first reading, by the time the second one passes several months, elections will probably be called and it will be decided by the second parliamentary majority or by the second government. What's most important is that I think we should go back to dialogue so that all the club representatives after all this is over, when some passions might calm down and when some people who haven't figured out the problem right the way they were supposed to sit at the table all together or some new majority, I think there's still a great opportunity for the situation and co-existence to improve without some tensions that would bring us back to the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116257	Jadranka Kosor responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116258	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Salapic, so I'm reading the 83rd Croatian Constitution, but that's why I've been looking for a conversation with some people who know it. I don't think there's any need to mention them, but if there's a need, I can mention it, but some have made public statements. Article 83 clearly says "The laws (organic laws) governing the rights of national minorities bring the Croatian Parliament two-thirds of the votes of all MPs." Since this law that is now being changed is now passed by a two-thirds majority, then it is logical that the law is adopted in the same procedure and amended. As far as this solution is concerned that the Government is trying to follow the Constitutional Court's instructions on the disbanding of the City Council if the City Council does not adopt a statute that will be in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is not the happiest solution since, as we have seen from today's debate, we are re-entering the political indictments that it is seeking to harm some majority who are there, so there may be another majority there tomorrow, etc. That's why we need to find another solution. The minister has now mentioned in some replicas and let me not go into it, but I think we should look for a solution in this sense that in no way is this urge to implement the law not politicized. So we have laws to implement them, if they're not good and we find that in the case of the city of Vukovar, some law is not good, it's not good for anyone, so we change it to be good, to follow life. The laws are written for living people who have to live, and then the laws need to be adapted in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116259	Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116260	Dear Mrs Kosor, to debate today all day long but for more than a year it is a matter of the use of the Law on Language and Letters in the City of Vukovar and there is no disputed legislative regulations and everything that all the acts that have been passed but most often highlights the suffering of the Croatian people that you have mentioned and which we do not deny, so we absolutely agree with it. I remember when you were in Vukovar in office of Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia at the meeting of the two presidents of the Republic of Mr. Josipovic and Mr. Tadic, we heard together both the suffering and the Serbian people in Vukovar. I don't know why I've been talking about it all day, but I'd like to ask you to talk about what you've heard about what these people have said to you, too. So we know there are other sufferings. And I don't know I can't remember in the protocol after that we went to Ovcara, I can't be sure that you'll confirm whether you were or not, but if you were and if you weren't, I'll tell you what happened there. There were some people waiting for us, and you know what their reaction was, they turned their back on us. Is it even when we come sincerely bowing down to the victims, does it really mean that everyone truly wants to do so when they speak? I know they've been launched and this headquarters has raised the issue of taking away the titles of honorary citizen of the city of Vukovar. What do you mean by what right? Those who haven't even made that decision initiate a decision that I would say is similar to this position right now. I regret it at all that such a case has occurred, and as a citizen of the city of Vukovar, I am ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116261	Time. Thank you. Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116262	Thank you very much. When you mention President Tadic's arrival with President Josipovic, that we agreed that then I, I had a bilateral with President Tadic but they went to Ovcara as two presidents, and as you know I was on Ovcara countless times. In the end, this monument at the cemetery, so the monument of that great cross at the cemetery in Vukovar was built so that here I, along with Dr. Njavra, participated in this monument in the yard of Vukovar Hospital, was also built in the term when I was minister, that's what we were doing, my ministry as prime minister, etc. And of course any attempt to honor should be followed with honor, every attempt to give to the victims should be followed by approval, and I absolutely agree. As in Borov Selo, cases of turning back on the minister, I don't think that's good, the minister who is on the way to the river is also a Croatian defender. So there are no Croatian defenders of mine and yours but all of our Croatian defenders, regardless of whose political party they belong to. But I believe that you remember and say that I should mention it, so here is the Croatian Defence Minister, also in my term, in the ministry under the patronage of the International Red Cross, for the first time, we have published a unique list of missing Croatian citizens, missing Croatian citizens and citizens a unique list, and without any problems I have to say. And when I came with President Tudjman, I came to the time when the president on the mission when Vukovar flew in and then after all that, his first arrival in '97 meant before the peace train, when he met with whom, with representatives of members of the Serb national minority, then the local authorities in that still occupied area. And the fact that Vukovar returned to the constitutional area of the Republic of Croatia on 15 January '98 was also occupied.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116263	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116264	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mrs. Kosor, fellow Members, when you pointed out in your discussion who was and went to Vukovar rightly, you stated how many times you have visited Vukovar and really what I know and have been following and since it was always at the height of your professional and human task always carrying out pate to the victims of all the victims and carrying one message of peace and effort to live together. And for that, I am here and now I thank you. However, this significant visit should also be noted, that it should not be forgotten, because your former HDZ colleagues have completely transferred it, forgotten. And yet now we're being passed the Amnesty Act. And then in 1996, when the high delegation of the Parliament came to Vukovar, then, Mr. Seks took the lead to hand over a draft of the Law on Amnesty to representatives of the Serbian, People's, Serbian People's Council Serbian peoples, national minorities, just before the bill was seen by parliamentarians themselves. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Greater municipalities.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116265	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116266	Thank you very much. Yes, I entered the Croatian Parliament in late '95. in the election and '96. with many of you or with some of you, or with some of you better, we are no longer so many, from that time on, so raise your hand and for that law. And just before, I was talking about President Tudjman, that that is, it may be a little familiar, and we lawyers know that the Abolization Act was a difficult decision because they're an abolized member, including members and paramilitary. There have been court proceedings, some court proceedings, if you remember, and you know it, colleagues as a lawyer and former justice minister. These were difficult decisions that did not always come to a special understanding among the Croatian people and should be acknowledged. And the signing of the Erdut Agreement and the decision to take a peaceful path into the reintegration of the Croatian Podunov was very, very touched by many Croatian defenders especially those who lost loved ones etc.. But they ultimately believed Franji Tudjman because he was speaking also in that speech in Vukovar, he actually advocated peace and advocated what was ultimately, ladies and gentlemen and the foundation of the European Union, stability, peace. The parents of the European Union are those who have waged bloody wars. These are the parents of the European Union and the European Union is resting on this. And today, as a member of the European Union, it should really be a reminder that we have entered, sat down at the table of European countries and peoples, that we belong to this civilization circle and that we should behave accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116267	On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, colleague Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116268	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. The bill we are discussing today is trying to regulate ways to ensure the implementation of it at local level, which is commendable. Local self-government often fails to fulfil its obligations when they do not have to, especially when they need financial resources. This proposal is so good, but I'll be abstention in the vote. Why will I be restrained? I am restrained because after 3.5 years of my term, after the recognition of Roma Language Day in this House, after the recognition of a total of 3 Roma holidays at national level and a number of good things we have done we have not taken the last step to round it all up and recognise the Roma language as the official minority language in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, we also open the European Roma Language Centre, which is a master's study of Roma language at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb. On the other hand, the Roman language is not officially recognised as minority, which is kind of paradoxical. In fact, it was supposed to be a step that preceded all of this rather than the other way around. Why is that? The simplest thing for politics, for political reasons, is to avoid doing a job that is demanding and financially but also for the work that needs to be done. Of course, those who avoid doing this work have their own justifications and have no insight into the consequences and damage to the Roma language. I am very glad that other national minorities have recognised minority languages and consume their rights but why not Roma? For example, the Russian, Russian, Ukrainian national minority, successfully use existing education models in their own language and a letter which is highly commendable. However, the Roma National Minority, which is much more numerous and has been inhabited in these areas and for longer than the rest of the national minorities, do not have that possibility. Some say that the language is not standardised, there are no textbooks in the Roma language, we do not have a professional frame and so on but these are all either incorrect information or facts that can be very easily changed. This bill can be good, it can be bad but regardless of which I will not support any language law as long as the Roma and other national smaller ones I represent and who seek it do not recognise the minority language and any rights arising from such status. In this regard, I contacted the authorities, arranged meetings, sent letters, asked questions, dragged by the sleeve but unsuccessfully. Those who should deal with the issue are transferring responsibility from one ministry to another and when they are cornered by excuses that are not followed by silence and ignoring. Worse still, as a way of avoiding responsibilities and work, as well as costs strive to insist on internal language and differences within the Roma community, which unnecessarily divides and threatens people. I have largely devoted my mandate to education as one of the best ways to improve the position of the Roma community. The many problems young Roma face could be solved by quality education. Recognition of Roma as minority would allow Roma language to be introduced into the education system in a way that enables Roma to be trained in one of the existing minority language and letter education models would allow us to get the necessary textbooks and learn our history. Language and culture care according to model C is some minimum criterion that the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia needs to be enabled. There are all very important issues because building an identity, pride and fostering your own culture the most discriminated ethnic group in this society must be a priority, not something held in reserve. As a result of the centuries, if not the thousands of years of discrimination against the Roma people in these areas, it is time to put an end to it. It is a well - known problem of not explaining or avoiding a large number of Roma to plead as members of the national minority they represent. This strategy of surviving, hiding and denying its own identity is something that is all present in our society. Many public-life celebrities hide their Roma identity. Many children and young people do not get the benefits this country offers because they do not want to be declared members of the Roma national minority. We live in a society where it is better to hide what you are than to live free, without fear of discrimination and public humiliation. All this problem begins at the earliest stages of human development, in preschool and school times when young Roma realize that they are different and that their diversity is negatively understood by the majority. A huge number of young Roma give up schooling for various reasons, and a sense of guilt and shame because they are different in combination with an almost violent environment towards a different destruction of the Roma community, a population that is in reality close to 44 000 than that of the population. We only have 30 Roma who go to high schools or colleges. In addition to all the benefits that they, as members of the Roma national minority in terms of education, can still not be decided and the opportunities to take advantage of themselves and the entire community. You wonder why that is. This is because regardless of all national plans and national strategies, regardless of how Roma feel that the Republic of Croatia is their only country still do not have that sense of freedom and acceptance. To truly feel at home and safely in public institutions, recognition of their language as an official minority language is essential. It is true that the Roma in the Republic of Croatia are specific on this issue. In fact, most of them speak the dialect of an ancient Romanian language that you have heard is called a fairy tale. However, I also advocate the recognition of that mother tongue and also support that other smaller ones who have not so far done so in the role model of those who have already been, be assured of their language. However, it should be known that the issue of Roma language and national symbols has long been resolved. So it must not serve as an excuse to the ministry, the minister and his servants. Everyone who should know that for sure. If not because it's their job, surely because I've emphasized it more than once in my memos. In response to my memos, the ministry or the minister answers, I quote: Romanichi is the official Roma language. We cannot ignore the fact that a large part of the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia is learning fairy tale, which is a variant of the ancient Romanian language, and this issue of consent within the Roma community must be resolved. This specificity of the Roma national minority in the Republic of Croatia aims to justify the lack of political will to recognise the Roma language, but not for these reasons, but for the work that the resolution of this issue assumes also the financial costs resulting from it. Namely, the disagreement within the Roma does not exist in a way that must be resolved. Because of historical circumstances, Roma often had to adapt to the space they lived in for survival. A part of the Roma people has completely lost their original language due to specific circumstances in Romania. In time, it has become their native language, and it is certainly necessary to appreciate this given the situation under which a large part of the Roma population in the Republic of Croatia considers it their native language. It's not a problem that needs to be solved, it's a historical fact. On the other hand, it is also a historical fact that romance is the only official language not only of Roma in the Republic of Croatia but also of the whole world. The world’s first convention, from April 8th to 12th, 1971, in London, resulted in the declaration of the official Roma language as official. Since I am a representative of the Roma national minority in the Republic of Croatia, it is my duty to do everything to build the historical tendencies of the Roma people for their own preservation and survival into the legal and political system of the Republic of Croatia. I do not want to make it impossible for others who consider their native language to be a variation of the Romanian language or any other language to make it impossible for them to recognise their rights. Given everything I have said, I call on the competent Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, as well as the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs to finally raise the issue of removing the reserve from Article 7. The European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages with the purpose of recognition of Roma language novels as the official minority language in the Republic of Croatia. The Roma national minority, as the most endangered of all, must simply be made possible, especially given the good example shown by other minorities, who have long since been a Hungarian, Italian national minority. The long-term lack of recognition of the Roma language is a novelist as a minority language in the Republic of Croatia will only contribute to the process of losing the identity and national self-awareness of the Roma population. In view of the master's study of Roma language at the Faculty of Philosophy where soon the opening of the Centre for European Roma Studies can definitely be dismissed from the accusations that it is an unstandardized language without human resources, that it is being taught and nurtured in the Republic of Croatia. I will point out once again that the Republic of Croatia as the only country of Roma living in these areas must almost always provide for both resources and all other opportunities necessary to ensure its citizens the level of rights they need for the first time in history to disrupt the vicious circle, discrimination, deprivation, poverty, destruction and neglect of Roma culture and language in these areas. The Roma national minority, unlike most other national minorities, does not have its own national state, and the Republic of Croatia as their only country, is the one that needs to provide them with the highest level of security and rights to preserve their own culture and language. I must point out that in order to address this issue, the principle support of the Education and Education Agency after our meeting was also attended by a Roma language lecturer at the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Zagreb. Jatif Demir, who introduced them to this subject. I can say that I have the support of many other institutions and interested actors especially of the academic community, and yet another proof that this issue must no longer be kept in the drawer. Soon we will also hold a scientific conference at the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts that will address the issue of Roma issues with an emphasis on language problems. We will be joined by experts from the Republic of Croatia, but also from abroad, so I hope that the competent authorities calling for a resolution of disagreements within the Roma community will follow this event and that they will finally do their part of the job. In less than a month, we will mark August 2nd as the Day of Remembrance of Roma killed in World War II, which is the last loss of the Roma people in these areas, which was not only about physical destruction but also about destruction and culture and language and customs. In short, every reminder of the presence of the Roma in these areas. Today we call it genocide or oranges in Roma. By reminding you of this, I invite you all to join us in this marking, but also to support my initiative to recognise the Roma language as the official minority language in the Republic of Croatia because such an initiative is exactly a step away from all of these events from the painful past. If he lives in Roma, he will live in Rome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116269	Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116270	I'm giving up the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116271	Thank you. On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116272	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to start by saying that the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia. And also a parallel proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Namely, the task put before the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, indirectly, before this High House in August of last year, the Constitutional Court made it perfectly clear to us. There's a colleague and colleague who isn't, but as far as we're concerned, she's completely clear and unequivocal and there's no dispute about the Constitutional Court's decision being a legal-political act. Just as the Constitution is a legal-political act, and the Constitutional Court as much as it wants or not to be a legal political arbitration officer, so this decision, which was taken in August in this sense, sets legal-political directions in which the Government must act but not only the Government but also the City Council of the City of Vukovar. Of course, those who do not want to approach the solution to this problem will find 1001 reasons by troublesome this or that circumstance, clarity or ambiguity, or the degree of clarity of this or that word or statement in that decision. But, you know, that habit of looking for alibis is basically a feature of incompetent people. There is no doubt that this issue, which should have been legally, technically for the implementation of the provisions of the 2002 Constitutional Law, has actually become a very simple matter with intent, so strong intensity has become a political and political issue. In a country where 90.42% of ethnics live to strengthen their muscles to the rights of national minorities, it is only a loud scream that you are not aware of your own identity and your own self-determination. If this is the part of the political representatives of the people, then they hit their own people with a rain. The task of the political elite is to strengthen the independence of the people, not to weaken them, not to frighten them with that handful of minorities. During the centuries, Croats have passed the terrible phases, primarily hampered by the fact that they do not live in their own national state as others. Romantically speaking, they dreamed of a country where they would exercise all their rights and finally open a box with national advantages. And whenever, and there were several occasions, we would have come close to having that dream come true, of course, if the bogeyman had prevented the bogeyman, not our Bauk, but the bauk so-called. An older brother who saw only colonized labour in them, an undeveloped colony from which he would draw cheap resources and the periphery of his empire. But I've mentioned it a few times, and I'm going to say it until it sits down as many people as possible. Speaking of Croats, the brightest period of their national self-esteem was the Croatian National Revival. This movement, which formed the foundations of a modern civil society later developed, in the late 19th century, especially in the time of Ban Mažuranić, and which defined in fact the gauges of national consciousness, which allowed the foundation of all national contemporary institutions to succeed only because it was not ethnically exclusive. Because he allowed Augustus Sheno and Ljudevit Gaj and Josip Juraj Strossmayer and Stanko Vraz and Dimitrius Demeter and Baroness Stockau to the right hand of Ban Jelačić because she was his wife, and his best friend Baron Neustadter say to themselves that they are Croats. When he allowed it, he opened a really wide movement to establish a modern Croatian nation. And if he'd gone exclusive then and if anyone who wrote another letter or wore a strange last name had ruled out any of that movement from the national movement, there would have been no Croats. Because they were too weak then, and they realized that power was in the community. From this pay phone, believe it or not at the expense of members of my people for decades, the most serious insults you can't possibly imagine are spoken. Today, in the Croatian Parliament, I think that the media would crush us and declare us the most primitive litter in this country. The Germans were then referred to as occupiers, those who, under the Pangerman idea, wanted to crush Croatianism, and then the rights papers and the right parties were preceded by chauvinism against the Germans. But it never occurred to anyone to go to the Catharine Square and alienate the record that says "Catharyen Platz." Or go to the council street and alienate the record that says Rathausgasse. And that's all here within 50 meters, all of the upper city streets are wearing bilingual plates printed with gout. And no one's bothered because he's not talking about anyone's subroutine. No one's saying they're symbols of the evil under which the Nazi forces are in '41. The years have trampled this country and killed a large number of people because these things are significantly separated from the political dimension of relations with the occupier, the attitude towards crime and the criminals. And it's so funny that any attempt to demonise a letter that the note of the Croatian national letter is the same as the Latin letter, in its history until the 17th century, actually finds the symbol that needs to be beaten to actually eliminate a political enemy called the Serb today. The hypocrite came out in his fullness. Because at that time when we needed the EU to prove that we are smart, beautiful, that we are committed to the European idea, that we are willing to implement reforms, that we are eager to adapt our legal system to European criteria, that we will fully adapt to the acquis, that all our difficulties and even the indifferences of the past will be corrected, forget that we will no longer act like this then we have been prepared to adopt regulations, regardless of the Parliament, it was the City Council of Vukovar or some third party who have conventiond our wish to become a full member, to complete our negotiations, to subscribe to us and to say that you have done a great job, how wonderfully you adapted all of your regulations. I congratulate you on your promises to keep it that way. As an immature deran who likes to cheat right around the corner called July 1st, 2013 we are now ready to show some teeth, figs, maybe folded hand in the Bosnian coat of arms and say sorry we forgot there are some exceptions, so what we agreed will not be worth tomorrow, it will only be worth where we say it will be worth it. Is this the behavior of mature, honest politicians? Isn't it the role of political elites, and among them as organized forces I appreciate most, and I want to appreciate the political parties because they also hold to words and standards, and to accepted commitments, and that everything that can become a good bait for low passions declares undesirable from political life. And we're hearing one story today about how changing these two laws would actually derogate the constitutional powers of the local self-government's representative bodies. Well, that's, I don't dare say what kind of prank it is. So, the purpose of the country is as is seen by all who have accepted heritage and a liberal idea to protect all their citizens and to enable the functioning of constitutional order in the entire territory of the state. Otherwise, what happened in Slovakia until a few years ago could happen to the local self-government to raise the wall and create a concentration camp around the settlement of the Roma national minority, and that any attempt by the state to suppress this kind of savagery and disgrace for the whole nation is declared by opposing the will of voters. Because it was made by a group of people sitting in the representative body of that place in Slovakia. It should therefore be more consistent and less hypocritical and know that, as is the fact that most must recognise and protect minority rights, so the state must ensure the functioning of constitutional order everywhere equally. Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia must feel equally securely in Lower Lapac, Split, Zagreb, Vukovar, White Malastir or Poreč, otherwise we allowed the state to fail and that is a step towards lawlessness. We've allowed what we say to be the Constitutional Court in the latest decision in a completely different case as a matrix on which lawlessness is built in the state. It is neither business nor should it be the ambition of any parliamentary representative of any political party and generally anyone who deals with politics, quite the contrary. I think I mentioned it once, but I'm proud to mention once again, when Korean chief Jörg Haider violently downloaded bilingual plates in Korusko, throwing them into the canals of plates and trails that were written in German and Slovenian, my friend Peter Kaisler enrolled his son Luke in Klagenfurt in a Slovenian school in protest. Peter Keisler is today the head of Koruska, the Austrian president of the Socialist Party of Koruska, I think the national vice president of the Socialist Party of Austria. I am proud of him because at the time when Austria's most powerful politician showed muscles and violated the rights of a minor minority no one can fear what Slovenian is like in Korea then Peter Kaisler showed what it means to be a man and a responsible politician. And today, Luka, as a teenager, is proud to know the Slovenian language. There will probably be some replicas, so I will leave room to answer, but not only as a representative of the Croatian People's Party here who holds that the protection of national minority rights is one of the fundamental anchors of every free community but also as a member of the national minority who in Croatian history has also experienced the amplitude of success and declines, which has been declared the bearer of progress and occupation force, which has paid a heavy tax among other things and assimilation. So when a colleague Grubisic today says what minority was assimilated just to remind him that 50 thousand Germans in Croatia were assimilated and for 50 years they had not been considered Germans because the historical circumstances in which they were accused of collective guilt led them to the fact that they were not allowed to vote that they were Germans, were not to be used, nor were they allowed to use the letter they used, nor in their language they used for 50 years. Today, the Germans and Austrians in the Republic of Croatia are declared only 3,000, and more than 50,000 of them have grandparents who pleaded to the Germans. So they're not integrated, they're assimilated. No one should be afraid anymore, 90.42% of Croats among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are political, human, ethnic, cultural, any capital that will never again be threatened by any other ethnic community in this country. And that's why broad arms when it comes to minority rights and that's why open hearts to every good initiative but firmly ensuring every right that belongs to it and nothing bad will happen to us. And those who sin when they talk about minority rights so they build a segregation system should also help them understand that segregation is not a good model and that exclusion creates a permanent obstacle to becoming a full member of the community and that all civil rights, not only minority rights, can be exploited. I hope that soon we will be in a position to stop this practice from kindergarten, we are sharing children by nationality. But that no one in the Republic of Croatia will feel uncomfortable saying to themselves that it is what it is because it would be tight in that skin and that it will not feel the hostile environment that our colleague Kajtazi is witnessing today, and as long as the last Roma in the Republic of Croatia is unhappy because as a Roma it cannot be realised as a full member of the community or as long as a Serb in the Republic has problems with achieving his own identity because it is being denied, no one else can feel free or relaxed. Once again, the HNS club of liberal Democrats will support the proposal of these two laws proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116273	We're on our way to replication. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116274	I absolutely agree with you fellow when you say that denying or not accepting governmental bills is essentially just looking for alibis for your own politics and for hypocrisy. How else to explain that the Government adopted an act on 467 pages in 2007 on the report on the exercise of the constitutional rights of national minorities, in particular the use of language and letter in which the same government boasts and is rightly boasted that there is already bilingualism in Vukovar, that they have made an action plan, deadlines when and all other units have to implement it to the limit. Minister of the time Mr. Mlakar, today's speaker on behalf of the HDZ, says that especially every unit will control if it did. Today, you and those, Mr. Mlakar the greatest author or co-author of this report, today I deny that great document any testimony at all. Apparently, he still has Mr. Alzheimer's on his own as his witness.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116275	Goran Beus Richembergh reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116276	Well, in all that story, it's not bad that one German witness, but I was talking about that hypocrite of ours. Among other things, it exists and occurs between the transition between the opposition and the position. It's a bad habit of politicians and political parties. When they're in opposition and position speaking differently, they seem different. And then we can't be surprised when citizens have less and less confidence in politicians and political parties because they're just never safe with us. What we thought last Monday was no guarantee that next Monday we'll represent the same values. That's sad. But only on this individual level can we show that there is a different model.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116277	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116278	Thank you very much. Comrade Beus still Richembergh, so you said that citizens are safe or not sure about what politicians are doing, whether politicians are safe. Well, look, you really said a few contradictory things in your pathetic speech. First, you said that there was something of German origin in Austro-Hungarian, so Czech, etc. Mrs.... pa Shenoa, pa Stanko Vraz Slovene, Strossmayer, Neustatter, Bauer etc. that they have integrated and thanks to Ban Mažuranić. Well, no one can be integrated thanks to anyone. Thanks to their own awareness of where they live, what they do about their belongings to that community. So they, not them, Ban Mažuranić persuaded them to integrate into Croatian society. How no one can convince you or anything in the Croatian state that there is anything beautiful that you might, even though you claim to be Austrian by origin, even though I have some different information about it and everything you've said. But what amazes you is that you accuse the Croatian state of assimilation, so you said. In Austro-Hungarian Republic where Croatia was one of the provinces, Croatians integrated themselves thanks to Ban Mažuranic. And now that the Croatian state is free to say that the Croatian state is assimilation, so you said. So how come you haven't been assisted, no one's been assimilated. Here it is spoken in Serbian in the Croatian Assembly, in fact, we have such. No one objected to that, right? Well, I'm not just saying. You're saying the number of Germans fell from 50,000 to 3,000, how many Germans were killed and expelled from the '45s when it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116279	My colleague Grubisic's time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116280	When the anti-fascists won World War II. ... How many Germans are there in total... here in Croatia and not only in Croatia but in Serbia? [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116281	And now I'm going to tell you to abuse my patience. I warn you three times. Goran Beus Richembergh reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116282	Comrade Grubisic, come on, you're getting into everything, and you don't know much about it, but if you don't hear it, we'll be able to help you. It was time for that action, let them hear they bought the children those hearing aids, they should certainly buy you. So that I said that they were integrated by Ban Mažuranić, so well I did not drink ink for God's sake when Ban Mažuranić came to the place of the bank many of them were already dead. So listen to me when I'm talking. They declared themselves Croats, integrated as the holder of Croatia's national rebirth. Some of them croatized their names. So Visner became Livadic, so Koh became the cook. So it has nothing to do with Ban Mažuranić. Ban Mažuranic has made it possible to create modern civil political institutions after the integration of the military province into Croatia, as far as it is concerned. And as for assimilation, don't throw numbers at yourself, I wrote a whole book of textbooks about the history of the German-Austrian minority in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, I'd be happy to give it to you. It says all the statistics there are, how many of us have been expelled, how many of us have been killed, how many of us are left, how much has been assimilated. If you're already eager to know. Read the map. Ask the peasants.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116283	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116284	Thank you. Yeah, you've brought out a whole series of valuables that you're of course entitled to and that's fine. But I only wanted to reflect on one thing, which is, you mentioned the issue of segregation and your conviction and disagreement with the problem of segregation of certain national minorities and the invitation to actually reduce that segregation of the dominoes. So I'd give you that call, you're in power this 3.5 years to reduce that segregation. But that segregation really needs to be reduced through content, not through form. And I don't see why, and you would certainly have had the will and desire to find partners in both us and other opposition parties to go to the reduction of that segregation, especially in the Croatian Podunavlje where it is actually a serious political problem and the problem that is actually giving birth to what is ultimately reflected on the streets of the city of Vukovar. And instead of going to solve this problem, but from where it comes from, and it comes from kindergartens and schools and from growing up children, it is ignored and again, and we would like to solve the actual problem at its end, and these are the records we have been talking about for years. So let's cut the segregation in Croatia's Podunavlje and Vukovar. So what did you do these 3.5 years to lift the segregation between Serbs and Croats and Croatian Serb children in Vukovar? So why didn't you cancel? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116285	Goran Beus-Richembergh reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116286	And the problem is more. Let's say the first problem is that three years ago, it didn't end the peaceful reintegration of the Podunov but much, much earlier. So this entire system was planted long ago and now it is very difficult to change it without a decision by the political elite of the Serbian national minority in Croatia. ... Take it easy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Easy, Mr. Djurovic, don't be nervous. So if you want to do good to the Serbian national minority, then you must first convince them that it is good for them. We didn't make it, we didn't make it. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm from a minority position saying to me, this Serbian national minority policy doesn't seem to be sustainable in the long term. But as long as the rest of us don't realize that the policy of countering segregation through a higher level, so integration, but with absolute assurance of minority rights, the right to learn about national history, the right to learn about national culture. So as long as we don't make it, they won't relax. And as long as they listen here in the Croatian Parliament to some stories that go to end, they won't let it out of their hands. We need to be aware of that. So the more we scare them, the tighter they'll stick to segregation thinking segregation is the solution to their problem, and they and we both know it's not. But they don't trust us. And you're asking why they don't believe us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116287	Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116288	Well, I'd like to do the same on this subject, which is why I've raised the replica, the segregation of the assimilation you've been talking about. So, the threat of assimilation is to lose your religion, your culture, your national identity, your language and your letter. And how will you preserve them? So you will have the right to learn about your language and your letter and your national culture and to express yourself freely. This system wasn't educational after reintegration. Normally they, when the reintegration is over, these arrangements, therefore accepted just as the schools have an Italian community in Istria, as the Hungarian community has in Baranja or in the city of Osijek has its own space, the cultural centre of Hungary, which is the founder of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So that's where I think we should be extremely careful when we talk about that segregation. And I'll tell you when you ask a question, says it's one of the biggest problems. So I'll tell you how to start getting rid of it. So let's hire 50 professors in Vukovar in schools where classes are not performed in Serbian and Cyrillic letters and these teachers are Serbs. There's not one since '97, that's what hasn't changed. And he doesn't get to work in kindergarten or elementary school or high school. Now that's mistrust, that's the first thing. And as for segregation, so how are we going to say in some places where the Serbs are over or here as you said the Croats 90%, so what do you think education is going to be like? Well, in that language and letter, normally, it's just that a lot of people don't understand. One is the curricula and curricula in the Republic of Croatia. So Serbs can be educated, not only, and other national minorities,... These, as Mr. Keatazi stated, should be provided to them in a way that would provide them with that, but as well as others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the problem is, I'm coming back, there's not a single Serbian professor who... in Serbian or Croatian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116289	Goran Beus Richembergh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116290	So you confirmed it wasn't a simple question at all. So the fact is that in the mixed environments of segregated schools are not... Italian schools compare almost impossible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems to me that a very large percentage of children who go to Italian schools are actually members of other ethnic groups, especially Croats, because the matter is prestigious. These schools were built in public over time as schools with higher quality, better professors. In my own time, as I recall, this status also had a Serbian high school in Zagreb. It was a matter of prestige to finish that or German high school in Zagreb, regardless of what you are. And in these specific situations, I still don't think it's a big gain to listen to physics class exclusively in its national language because it won't actually strengthen my national identity. The national identity will certainly be strengthened and preserved if I am allowed to speak, learn what I did not have the opportunity, in the language of my ancestors, and learn about my culture. So we have a situation that in many parts of Croatia where there was no possibility for national minority education, members of national minorities do not know their own language, and nothing about their history and culture unless they are active in national minority organisations. So that's one big problem that doesn't exist just here. Therefore, Croatia is not in this sense an exception but as little passion as possible, and the more reason in the whole story, the better it will be. But to be in Vukovar, we're building an atmosphere that rules in Mostar, it's below what we can do. So where children from each other's schools feel bad about each other first because they don't know each other, because fear is the one from the other, from the other that generates all the problems and the aggression towards the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116291	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleagues Josip Salapic and Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116292	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. This is how the day nears the end is increasingly opening dialogue as it may sometimes be at the beginning of the debate over all the issues that comes before us and would not personally give himself the exclusive right to call anyone after this speaker today a hypocrite as we were called who defended the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 52 MPs where we wanted to try to solve the problem that occurred in the City of Vukovar in 2013. And unfortunately whenever you want to talk openly about real life and state in our Croatia, sometimes some colleagues who give themselves exclusive rights are calling you nationalists and chauvinists and people who do not respect Croatian laws and people who trample their neighbours, their friends and so on. And the real truth is, I'm personally raised and trained in such an environment where I know best and what it means to lose someone to my family as a father and mother or to lose some friends of my own, whether in some kind of war-related manner, or on some of the life opportunities that teach us life, but also respect for life and those who are our neighbors and friends and who live next door to us. Well, I've given myself a little effort, so I looked at what the first Croatian president who was very much responsible for the creation of the Croatian state said on June 8, '97. The year when the peace train came to Vukovar, it was there that he spoke at that train station. While the president spoke there about 200 metres away, there were groups of protesters who were with the features of the large Serb army, the Chetnik army and the like, but the rally and the arrival of the train in Vukovar came in the best order since Croatian regular forces provided it well. If it hadn't been for that, it would have been a problem. So here's the late president then said, briefly: Everything we do is not only in the narrow local interest but in the general Croatian, general European, interest in peace and future of this region and Europe. Let us live together Croatian peoples with Serbian and other ethnic communities in these areas, let our only and eternal Croatia live. Here is one plant of understanding of the Croatian state and my education as a lawyer I understood the Croatian state, and that early Vukovar which was, at the time I was 21, when I went to high school and I learned about it so I got the opportunity to teach the history of the Croatian state and the rights to students of the Law School for 8 years. So any way to come forward here anyone who understands would go against the Serb national minority, and understanding Croatian history, but also the latest Croatian history that is remembered as the Homeland War in our people. There should be some human values and political values, and sometimes a step more in political debates so that not only does someone here speak something when it comes to elections or cheap political points. That's not exactly the way it is. We passed a lot of laws, and the government explained that in its opinion, the rejection of our 2013 conclusion. This government, the Ministry of Administration, acted according to the Constitutional Court's instructions. The Constitutional Court's decision can be interpreted as calming the situation in Vukovar by giving for the right and those who asked to discuss their question whether you were for bilingual inscriptions in the City of Vukovar, but it also made a commitment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give appropriate mechanisms to the legislative proposal in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament so that future possible situations could be prevented. As well as the City Council of Vukovar has made a commitment to adopt a new statute respecting the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, whether throughout the City of Vukovar or in certain areas of the City of Vukovar, as ordered by the Constitutional Court decision. And what was left behind the whole time and this was written by the Constitutional Court in its decision, it is a sincere human dialogue that would first and foremost solve this new situation today, there would be no need for the Constitutional Court's decision or for 400,000 citizens or more who signed a referendum initiative that came before the Constitutional Court where it was legal enough for the Constitutional Court to decide at all, and not everything that happened in the memory column just for one single reason. I don't think any Croatian defender, not one of the victims of the Homeland War, nor the people who live there are for what's been going on, and this is the conflict that occurred in some of the wounds of the past of the Homeland War and the creation of the Croatian state. But which one of us can dare here today or tomorrow to say how long that memory can last, that wound to those who have lost their loved ones. It is now neither pathetic nor hypocrisy, but it is life and it is the truth of that father or mother that was the Croatian defender or ordinary civilian who died either in Vukovar, or in our Osijek in Slavonia in Brod, Dalmatia, Shkabrnja, and the like. Who can decide how many years it is that will last for people to forgive within themselves, in their souls. This cannot be done by any law, by any decision of the Constitutional Court, by any international regulation. It can only be someone who suffers within the limits of his humanity what can last for someone less and for someone longer. That's why we got involved in 2013 to prevent conflict, and we talked a lot as a club with the Vukovar defenders, and it wasn't so that these people don't want to and don't understand the Serb national minority, but there was a problem with the way the bilingual boards appeared in that very city of Vukovar. I'll remind you of what we said in Osijek today, it's been a long time in the Erdut municipality of the parish of the SDSS, the cooperation we had. I personally co-operated for 9 years as club president at the Osijek-Baranja County Assembly and with the SDSS council members who were often at certain times and situations when they talked about co-existence, some of the important decisions at the county level were co-workers and partners. Now if we were to justify all these, all these misunderstandings and all these passions, if we really talked through dialogue, I don't think the representatives of the Serb national minority, our colleagues and MPs here in the Parliament, but also the council down in the City Council of Vukovar would mind sitting down and talking about all the levels of respect for human rights, fair and without the figurines in their pocket first. And there may be talk and rejection of some legal proposals, and it may also be acceptance and what I find most reasonable today when it takes a two-thirds majority, which is that in adopting a final bill, this is the first reading to consider whether there is a legal possibility and the possibility of an agreement here that because of the city of heroes and because of all the wounds that have been made there, we extend a part of the law to time that concerns the use of these rights, which will not depend on the core of the common life, the co-existence of the Croatian and Serbian people in Vukovar. I am sure that this board on buildings or on entry into Vukovar will not harm the key right of the Serb national minority, which is that co-existence has been built for many years now, and will continue to be built. There are many other rights that we can calmly and normally discuss without anyone being offended, or that no one thinks anyone wants to restrict the fundamental human rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. This bill to disband the city council if no decision taken by the Constitutional Court is implemented, the decision to respect constitutional law – the rights of national minorities in this way cannot be taken. We agree to consider and discuss the possibility of including either the County Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but first of all, on one condition to open dialogue until the second round, the second final proposal of the law, that all the clubs of the representatives sit down and try to find a consensus on this and certainly do so to apply this legal solution to what we have elements in the Constitutional Court's decision at a certain time, the time period in which the agreements are discussed to be postponed in the city of Vukovar for several reasons now repeated, for several repeated times without insulting anyone. If we need the help of the Constitutional Court to interpret certain rights and rules and we can include ourselves, but if we continue with this line that someone has stopped here and wants to offend the national minority that Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality are as part of the Croatian state and as someone who has all those rights guaranteed by the creation of the Croatian state to date, then we are not on a good path, and then we resent that someone who is not a member of that minority or party stands for this pay phone. When those times go by, I think we'll live much better by not insulting any colleagues with a left-wing view, or a right-wing worldview, or the right to respect their national minority. I think all of us together should respect the Croatian state and the Croatian people regardless of which national minorities they were. Because when we start dealing with real problems, it will be much easier for us and for young generations when we start teaching them real values without returning to the past, and it will be much better for those who today think they are threatened by the debates and the bills we have defended not only the interests of the Croatian state, but some national dignity and memory of those who have given their lives in creating an independent and independent state of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116293	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, why does this law not go according to emergency procedures when such insignificant things as the foundation for, for example, the unimportant foundation "For Children of Croatia" where the rights of the director of the foundation are governed by the urgent procedure. As you say, the important thing to which the Constitutional Court has given its grade goes to first reading. Although you or I don't know who ordered that very often in the night flash, the tables are placed in Vukovar with bilingual inscriptions, and now here we go for the first reading. Well, because you know that during the term of office of this Parliament and your government it will not be resolved and you go very easy on, in fact, here's the first reading, and we spend all day here and the situation economically and secondly, giving guarantees and a billion kuna goes into debt to the public that reaches 100% of GDP, etc. That's not what we're talking about today. So we have very, very important and hot topics. But here's the day we spent on this. One pains me, and here a colleague who has been declared an article by the German national minority who has not mentioned the significance of Vukovar in any of his speeches, did not mention what Vukovar means for Croatia. What's a hero town? How many people, how many mothers are in mourning today? How many kids are out of parents? So, not a word. He takes care of some Europeans, I don't know what I'm talking about, and he tells us about Mažuranić, Strossmayer, and I don't know who. I respect both General Borojevic and even Mr. Vladan Right, who said he was a Croatian writer because he was born in China and there, although he is, of course, a Serb from the Jankovic tower, etc. I know a lot of things Mr. Beus Richembergh doesn't or won't say. But this law suspending the City Council that the Commissioner or as I called at first the governor was just set up on those 2 months, 3 to make a decision on the application of the Law on the Right of Language and the letter of a certain national minority is, in fact, if we were to look at the surface, it is not really on the trail of what Mr. Bauk is carrying out by your government lately declaring and praising the late President Tudjman as an excellent statesman, founder of the Croatian State, declaring Zagreb Airport by President Tudjman. So then the Peljeski bridge is a major national charge which will connect the south of Croatia, etc. Suddenly you have this legislative proposal of yours which, in fact, seems not to be on the trail of this policy of courting the centre and the right center, but is contrary to it but you yourself know that this law will not be finished or voted upon during your term of office. And that's why you want me to say, in some ways, it's nice to listen to all these discussions that are going on today. The Constitutional Court, which said an appropriate legal mechanism for finding a solution, had not determined to amend the Law on Local Self-Government, did not mention it. Therefore, it would be much more necessary for you, as Minister of Administration and Prime Minister, and we, out of opposition and all together, if we had scheduled one to say a general meeting of citizens in Vukovar and majority Croats and minority Serbs, and that at that meeting we were all together both as politicians and as people, above all as people, went to talk, agreement and one human solution. That is exactly how we proposed in that proposal, or 53 MPs. Unfortunately, your government, as usual, rejects good proposals very often, is it, apart from some HDZ's now recent amendments, so you've minorized it and refused to actually do so? But you're going with this kind of guy, I'd say a bit of a violent form that you solve or municipal, city and county councils, congregations and councilmen. I don't know what that kind of shape is, but it's not a good idea like this. Because that's how you define the will of the voters of that local unit, local self-government or the city as it was shown in the elections for any city, municipality or county. How are you going to do that, how are you going to derivate when boredom in the law and there was no possibility that we would go to apply the Constitutional Law on Language and Letters and that is why we would abolish the City Council. There, that's it. We'll disband the City Council for nothing more than that. What will the citizens think their mood will be? Did you count on the consequences of that? What will be the consequences in the city like Vukovar after that, say you do it? When these new elections are what the citizens will then, and mostly the majority, what will they do and how will they vote afterwards? I was, and every year I've been and I've been in Vukovar more than once, and I have relatives, and on November 18, when you changed the board to a police building that goes to Mitnica and hid it with the big, big, biggest police van that came in 5cm from the police building so you wouldn't see that bilingual board. That those in the memory column wouldn't happen to see if they didn't make an incident. That's how sure you are that the people that come together, almost 100,000 and more, would you be, so are you sure that's what the people really want? Why did you hide that board then with a police van? But yet the Croatian people have imaginations, so at Mitnica in one house they wrote Zoki for coffee. That's exactly what it said. That round one draws over it, doesn't it? Yeah, coffee, coffee, yeah. Zoki, why don't you come and get some coffee? I can show you the picture I have on my cell phone, I've taken it a couple times. But when you are so convinced that Croatian citizens are so happy to accept this proposal, just for Vukovar, I am not talking about other places in Croatia. Of course, I'm in favour of applying the Law on Language and Letters in all the environments, but Vukovar is something special. You don't understand because obviously you weren't in the war, and your president doesn't realize it at all. The smell of gunpowder never tasted, he never saw a dead man die next to him, he didn't see his mother crying, he didn't work in an operating room where there was blood to the knee and intestines on the floor, and his eyes were pierced with bullets and gellers, and I don't know what it was. That's why he doesn't know. You can't feel it at all, but listen to those who talk about it. That victim of Vukovar must not be marred by this law. And you do what you do, and you'll see what you get. I'm not threatening anyone but consider the political consequences of your move, think about it. And when you think about it a little bit, then I think you'll be on another path, another trail of solution and looking for another way about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116294	A colleague Drazen Djurovic, a replica of the presentation of counterpart Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116295	Thank you. In the initial part of your presentation, you mentioned Dr. Salapić's words. Tudjman, about the co-existence of the Croatian and Serbian people. I wanted to say that concept of co-existence between the Croatian and Serbian people was a concept that included a very high entropy or a very high energy that actually, in the time of that integration, actually had to be applied in order to make life happen there. I think that regardless of all the weaknesses and problems of time that today is still an immeasurably different situation in that city as it is in that whole actually integrated space and that I think that this notion of co-existence can be easily changed simply by the notion of life. People live today, and that's all, and yet that energy that had to be invested at the time in order to even agree with those who were at war a few years ago against each other is not needed in this way, but what was needed, and what was not actually done is that step further actually in achieving that life as a whole. Now, unfortunately, no government has ever made any kind of boredom and, in fact, the drama of this government about this issue is that it has not taken that step, but it continues to insist on these practically banal things and on the content of life in that quality that they could do, and in fact they haven't actually used this mandate to do anything and to change anything exactly in this Vukovar in these four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116296	Josip Salapic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116297	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Đurović, so I deliberately returned to that 97th year and you only helped me with my replica to come to this day because if we want to follow everything that has happened since then and until the 97th year until the peace train, a lot of innocent victims have fallen to President Tudjman with the Croatian delegation and with all those foreign diplomats could come to Vukovar and there were also those who were anti-protesters and still insult the Croatian state and all that has been achieved in that reintegration of that end of Croatia and the acceptance of the Serbian national minority and all those values that we added. What we've been discussing today all morning and what our colleagues at the SDSS Club didn't understand is what you're talking about when you talk about some wounds, the past, the defenders, people who need to forgive for a long time even though we've adopted the Law of Forgiveness most of all, those who have lost the most understand what it means to accept such a thing, and when you go through a legal proposal to just postpone a particular segment of these rights, not to reduce the value of everything that has been achieved to date, nor the other rights that are being spoken of today. We discussed yesterday the emigration of young people, Croatian families, those who go after bread to other EU countries and at the same time the representatives of the government said how many people have moved back to Croatia but it is forgotten to say that they are returnees, that they are those who are allowed to return to the country and accept and recognise all rights as well as all other Croatian citizens on the basis of all the existing positive legal rules and laws that apply to everything. So this co-existence or common life or understanding or full adaptation to everyone is something that is necessary, it is a dry need but until he, while the majority of the Croatian people, which according to that article 8 should all be guaranteed, cannot make sense of the dialogue to say what he thinks about the problem in Vukovar until there will be no peace, and peace should be by accepting those laws that will be equal to all, so today we have discussed it openly without the fig in his pocket and without any hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116298	Minister Arsen Bauk is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116299	Several facilities to show colleagues Grubisic. I wouldn't agree that what we're proposing isn't on the trail of President Tudjman, so he's four mayors past the will of the citizens, so this is exactly on that trail if we're going to do it, it's not exactly to brag but good. So, if there is a milder solution that you have suggested in the debate, we will find it by the second reading, if we need to and conduct consultations with clubs that are not part of the ruling coalition to find a better solution that could be supported and that's what we're going to do. As for the Prime Minister's meeting with, then, in Vukovar, he was in a meeting with the headquarters and then they agreed to withdraw the specials or the intervention police. So there were these meetings. The only problem was that there was always only one limit to it, which was that the requirement was to fully and fully exempt the City of Vukovar from the application of the constitutional law. This was the city council and put into the statutes and this was brought down by the Constitutional Court, i.e. it confirmed the government's decision not to recognise it. As for the so-called so-called. comfortable situations and I must admit that, in any case, the adoption of a two-thirds majority of amendments to the law would give an opportunity for a broader dialogue and a broader debate on how today after 12 years of constitutional law or after 15 years of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Croatian political system, this application would also be good. That's why the situation is more comfortable because the two-thirds majority gives a solution which is a little harder then to dispute, but it's no problem to challenge it even if you vote for it that HDZ has been doing these few years, but then it stretches to interpretation. As for the political consequences they were next in Vukovar for the SDP, we fell from 8 council members to 5 and the SDSS grew from 2 to 5. So there was no reduction in SDP support by right-wing voters because we didn't even have them, but the minority party's voting body was homogenised for it. So it hasn't changed much, and as far as your facility was at war and who didn't want to introduce you to the fact that members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia who were, which were at the time of 2013 when this proposal was submitted, had a total of 4,674 days spent on the battlefield, which means that it was not exactly true, the Government that 4674 days. I can read each and every one of them to you, but I don't think there's a need for that. That's usually twice as much as the last government. She had 2.206 when we're already bidding on who's what, when etc. Here's for information and for the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116300	It's not good to call ourselves who wasn't, everyone did what they could and how much they could during the war. Comrade Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116301	Mr. Minister, you'd better not have talked about the number of days, even though the Vice President has defined it perfectly. But when we count Mr. Kotromanovic and Mr. Matic together with that internship, unfortunately, or staying in a camp in Serbia, it's more than half of it. But good. This nation will judge who he was, who he was in Holland and the Munich Brigade, etc. But when we talk about your comfortable situation, I say easy colloquially, so you yourself are aware that this law in this term of the Croatian Parliament cannot come to an end or come to that formulation of the team and team. So this is the first reading, there goes the summer break, after who knows when the Parliament will start again, there goes the election and it's over. So we can discuss today as much as we want this very legislative proposal will not come to the vote. That's it. I haven't finished yet. I've got 52 seconds left.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116302	No, I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116303	No, no, I didn't. And as for the consequences of this move in the case of God, I am talking about a political future. I'm not talking about the current position of the City Council in Vukovar right now. I'm talking about future elections on how things are going to happen, how citizens are going to assess this move in the event of this kind of thing being applied. You'll see for yourself. As for other things and environments that you also mentioned, here I know that at the time of this government of yours it seems to me that the Vriginmost has been renamed to a pardon Iron in the Vrginmost, that the bilingual tables are standing neatly everywhere I went across the former Krajina so-called. Sao Krajina are everywhere bilingual and fully applies everything else necessary by applying the Law on the Language and Letter of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116304	On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116305	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister and Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Today there are some of these discussions, and these mainly refer to those who have already left us for a good time, and have seen it as a show in which they cheered warmly until yesterday, and today the same play of whistles, which were dressed in European rouble, and today they are completely naked. The old Latins would say "on time of custom," but I really don't think there's room for any surprise, but if there were room for such hypocrisy, that's really the case. In order to understand at all these proposals proposed by the Government, speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, which will support both proposals proposed by the Government, I would like to point out not only that they should be properly examined by this decision but I would say that many passages, if not all decisions of the Constitutional Court should be taken by heart. It will benefit us from the purity of political life, political action. In fact, at the very beginning of what the Constitutional Court says, I will not interpret the decisions of the Constitutional Court or the decision of the Constitutional Court, but I will read it to you, and then we can comment, then we can reach what some have said, which is quite the opposite of the Constitutional Court. So, "The Constitutional Court orders the City Council of Vukovar to conduct Article 6 within a year. The Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Statute of the City of Vukovar stipulates that the entire area is governed by and for certain parts or parts of the city of Vukovar, the individual rights of members of national minorities to the official use of their language and letters, and also says "in an area that does not endanger the very essence of these rights itself, while respecting the needs of the majority of Croatian people that originate from the still living consequences of great Serb aggression in the early 1990s". The Constitutional Court shall immediately at first distinguish the individual rights of national minorities from collective rights. I read here what the City Council of Vukovar has to do with regard to individual rights immediately since it was published within a year. It then gives the Government a second term, also a one-year deadline since its publication in the NN from that decision. "In the parliamentary procedure, to refer amendments and additions to the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in which they will regulate an appropriate legal mechanism for cases where the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government do not implement the obligations of the Act on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities or obstruct its implementation." Now, let's just stop here a little bit, a lot of people have commented, and I'm asking you how the legislator will know that, so it's actually our capacity for legislation that we question. Then let's disband, so let's also do the legislative activity Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court says very correctly in a proper manner. But he doesn't leave us there knowing who he's dealing with, so he doesn't leave us alone, but in the entire text, he's also talking about what the appropriate mechanisms are and what it is necessary to do and what it is to do in order to comply with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and also with the Constitution itself. So what does it say next, is what are the forts in Chapter 2. Constitutional Court, page 4 of page 23. Equality and protection of the rights of national minorities shall be governed by the constitutional law adopted under the procedure for the adoption of organic laws. So he calls on both the ruling and the opposition to take their responsibility. But it's obvious that someone who was irresponsible until yesterday, today is an irresponsible opposition and so on in a circle. Further on page 6 of the Constitutional Court shall particularly apostrophe Article 12. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities states: "The equal official use of language and letter used by members of the national minority is achieved in the area of the unit of local self-government when members of a national minority make up at least a third of the population of such a unit.". But there was also a question here about the threshold, many have suggested why not raise the threshold, and they comment on it. If they had read the Constitutional Court's decision correctly, they would have no need for such commentation. Because the Constitutional Court says no, that's why there's no direct need and it's explicitly obvious, Mr. Minister. Therefore, there is no need to discuss this at all, as the Constitutional Court says about this, stresses that the previous facts must not conclude the aprior and unconditional permission to increase the threshold for the official use of the language and letter of the national minorities. The constitution in this matter sets out requirements stemming from a democratic society based on the rule of law. When it comes to protected constitutional goods, the Constitution cannot be accessed in such a way that one provision can be drawn from the whole of the relations to which it is formed and then interpreted separately and mechanically independently of all other values protected by the Constitution. The Constitution makes up a unique whole, it owns internal unity and the meaning of certain parts is related to all provisions. The Constitutional Court further recalls that the Constitution as a fundamental legal act of the Croatian state is not worth neutral but that it defines the Republic of Croatia as a democratic state. And he says all constitutional values must be achieved without discrimination on any basis. Thus, the Constitutional Court says, democracy based on the rule of law and the protection of human rights is the only political model the Constitution takes into account and the only one it agrees with. Moreover, human rights and the rule of law in the context of the Croatian Constitution are set up in such a way that they are primarily intended to express moral devotion to objective principles of liberal democracy. And then now says the Constitutional Court and before that quotes and the decision, or the European Court of Human Rights verdict... against Poland since 2004. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So says pluralism, tolerance and freedom are the key features of a democratic society. Expressing ethical identity and highlighting minority consciousness are also important for the proper functioning of democracy. Pluralism is built on the original recognition and respect for the diversity and dynamics of cultural traditions, ethnic cultural identities, religious beliefs, artistic, literary, social, economic, etc. Now, just as some colleagues, colleagues, Beus, have said it well, some have strengthened their muscles, so I don't know what they were doing in 2003, 2006, 2009 but suddenly after so much time they talk about the lack of Croatian consciousness and understanding for events which, therefore, with regrets... With great sadness and pain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the Constitutional Court says so, and so the colleague mentioned something similar in this way, so when we apply constitutional law, it is necessary to understand the obligations resulting from the national sovereignty of the Croatian people according to the smaller ones. Only one nation who is sovereign, who is sure of itself, is not afraid to give such rights to minorities. That's what we need to get a lot of people to do. In the case, therefore, and in a procedure that is not an emphasis on individual rights of members of national minorities, I remind you that it is very important that the Constitutional Court distinguishes what individual minorities are, which are individual rights and what is collective law. So says the Constitutional Court already at the legal obligation of the competent state authorities, so here the state authorities are now obliged to ensure the official use of the language and letters of the national minority in the area of the municipality or the city as their collective right if the legal assumption is fulfilled. And the legal assumption is more than one-third. It further states the Constitutional Court that it should first be reminded that Article 15(4) The Constitution guarantees freedom of service in its own language and in a letter to members of national minorities. The article guarantees the individual right to freedom of service by means of his own language and letter. And what many here have also opened when, which we will say to the Constitutional Court, such a right has neither a temporary nor a transitional character. The Constitutional Court further says that the very essence of the identity of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia is tolerance, understanding, a constant reminder of the values of the Constitution. It also continues to say that the Croatian Constitution created the possibilities for the law to prescribe and a positive obligation for the state to ensure, in addition to the Croatian language and the Latin letter, those collective rights. In this context, it is also necessary to understand these two legislative proposals. And only what is a sanction, which was done by the HDZ Government, which in their reports in a large number of years that preceded the accession of the European Union boasted in their reports. I will now repeat, especially in a remarkable 467-page report, the special oblivion was given by Minister Mlakar who today had no idea what instructions he had given to the units of local self-government by pressing them with deadlines because the government was not satisfied with the Constitution passed, constitutional law but also prescribed an action plan. This was done by the HDZ government, which, by deadlines and which means, the constitutional law will apply. They were boasting back then that the city of Vukovar was an example of bilingualism. You see what's going on today? Today they deny it, as if it hadn't happened. However, as much has been said here today, I will shorten and conclude this debate by saying on behalf of the SDP Club that the government both by this law and by these laws respect the Constitution, respect the Constitutional Court's decision, respect the majority and respect the minorities, introduce constitutional order, and that the order was clear as the great Russian and American actually said, the American writer and scientist..., in order to be order someone must also be in charge of the disorder. We appreciate those who are precisely whatever they are on the other side persistent and have somehow a different way of looking, but we really condemn those who are basically bilingual and opposed to bilingualism. They have two languages, one for their own time when they are in power, and another when they are not in power, another language in another time. It's for conviction. We always condemn such a policy and condemn it because it is hypocrisy, and we believe that as a small people, we can gain the trust of our own citizens above all, and then Europeans and around the world if we are principled and we believe that truth and principle is the best policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116306	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Dear Representative Josip Salapic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I must admit that I find you very likable in your speeches, but this is one assault speech, one more as a declaration based on the Constitutional Court's decision. I even liked it, you almost convinced me that we should respect the principle as you said it, but I would throw out the part where you talk about hypocrisy because you have now read to us the decision of the Constitutional Court that is as you have read it. But also, I will now return, given that I was one of the proponents of the conclusions, to the conclusion of the Constitutional Court decision where the Constitutional Court obliges the City Council of Vukovar to adopt the Statute of the City of Vukovar, gave for the whole area of the city or for certain parts of the city, but in this part, taking into account therefore the facts that it considers fit the life facts and factual circumstances in the City of Vukovar, which does not only compromise the importance of these rights, but also respects the needs of the majority Croatian people that originate from the still living consequences of large-scale aggression in the early 1990s,... the need for a fair and proper treatment of the Serbian national minority in the area of the City of Vukovar. According to this part of the decision, we can interpret the wider and the rope, and finally the Constitutional Court says it is not a participant of political debates, but that in order to solve... the problem, there is no other means than the versatile political dialogue conducted in good faith, however unpleasant this dialogue may sometimes be. So the basic essence of this replica of mine to you is that you need dialogue. Nor should those who made the decisions they made in 2009 be pursued because of the various circumstances, we will not call anyone there because someone has agreed to those decisions. It's not you or me. So let's consider how we're going to live tomorrow and whether this legal proposal that's ahead of us is going to be better than what we have today. So this dialogue, the consensus is needed and that's where we can understand each other, but I'm not into these methods of assault because chasing isn't going to bring us anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116308	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116309	Well, I mean, my colleague, when you talk about political dialogue and what the Constitutional Court points to, that we can talk to and that we can talk to and appreciate and those we disagree with and we can talk to arguments. But what to talk to the one who authored the text of hundreds of pages and who today deny the testimony of it. I said, he can only call Mr. Alzheimer's for his witness. How do you talk to these people? But, well, there are still people in the Croatian Parliament who are not our political members to talk to and talk to, and we are open to conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116310	Dear fellow Representative Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116311	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Anticevic, I wouldn't be surprised if I were you, my colleague, Mlakar and HDZ. When they advocated what you said, they were terrified in front of the European Union and were afraid to enter Croatia into the European Union. They were two-faced to advocate something they really didn't believe in. Today, when we entered the European Union, the masks fell. HDZ colleagues think it's all over, they think we don't have to pretend to be Europeans anymore, they're willing to use absolutely everything they can for their petty political breakthroughs. We must speak plainly, we must plainly point out that in Croatian society there are those who do not care at all what damage can be caused by their behaviour. The government has, as you have spoken, made proposals for laws implementing the recommendations of the Constitutional Court. We talked about them today. There have been some concrete suggestions, such as fellow Lesars, which should be considered. But there was nothing on HDZ's side but spit and complete forget about what they used to say. A fellow Salapic in his replica went a little in that context, but he didn't go all the way and he didn't say what I just said openly. I think it is our duty, our duty to remind ourselves of how someone spoke in 2009, 2010 and how he talks and how he behaves today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116312	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116313	Yes, and the general disdain about it was told by foreign diplomats. At that time, they were portrayed outside as directional vassals, and at home as pompous viziers. However, I still need to honor and confess to my colleague Llakar. He was in one segment a better management minister than I was. A two-day letter was introduced for his term, and that was not me in his term. Likewise, they had better in one segment and the minister of justice. During their term of office, during our term of office, none of my generals were in The Hague specifically. During their term of office, all the generals went to The Hague, and during our new term of office, they returned.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116314	Thank you very much. We'll continue the debate with the MPs. Now it's up to a respected colleague, Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116315	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister, Mr. Bauk, Mr. Milosevic. So here's what I'd end up saying in this individual debate to me as a Serb, a member of the Parliament and a citizen of Vukovar, I'd have a lot to thank some of you for, and some once again invite me to Vukovar to come and spend a little bit of us through Vukovar and see how we see it from our perspective. But I don't want to talk about it, first I'd like to say the same thing as everyone today about the Constitutional Court's decision, about the Constitutional Court at all. The fact is that not for the first time has the Constitutional Court ruled on the rights of national minorities, and I would say against national minorities. I would remind you, for the first time, when the Constitutional Court amended the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the way in which national minorities were elected in the Croatian Parliament, as well as institutions representing a national minority. What is very discriminatory for this case of the Constitutional Court is what they first took into their own, that is, they broke the rule and introduced it into practice, that, in addition to these requirements, the government's demands and requirements of the headquarters were taken, or received material in the metrics, and in fact its metrics were decided not in these conclusions. In conclusion, that decision is clear and as regards, therefore, the assessment of constitutionality, amendments and additions of the statutes with the Constitution and other laws. So he's an unconstitutional statute. However, they took materials named after the referendum said it contains answers to the Organisational Committee for the most frequent complaints that have addressed the initiative to the public. And another material called how we got to the referendum. And in fact it was a press release that was sent to all the media and it was taken by the Constitutional Court as relevant. So why didn't he take any other documents? Why in this procedure no one else could have addressed the Constitutional Court in such a way. For what? Is this objective? No, I don't. Constitutional judges have decided to take this and it is most objective for them and now here it is in some way before us a discussion about the city of Vukovar for which many here may be a fatal question. But Vukovar will live again tomorrow, the Vukovars tomorrow those who have not worked anywhere until now will not work tomorrow, nothing will be better than this debate or the amended statute. We have also entered into the statute the provision that Vukovar and the city of the special piety, that is what I have been saying today. Are we getting better than that? No, I don't. And those who come to Vukovar and love to brag about coming on 18.11. I'd like to hear what they actually hear then, what the Vukovars tell them. And there's little they can hear. You know why? There's not a lot of Vulcans there then. Surely it is hard for us to tell when we know that we are not in the majority or not in the political sense, we do not represent the majority where we can amend these laws and statutes, and therefore we often remind that when it comes to piety and we pray that we talk about the piety of Serbs who have died, who are civilians, who are unrecognizable and unprocessed victims of war. There's no place in Vukovar where you can unfortunately bow to such sacrifices. There's not even a place in common you can do that. We often hear the thesis of criminals walking freely through the city of Vukovar. However, in the DORH report, it clearly proves that the DORH has investigated these cases and that there is absolutely no evidence of this. But that's what they're talking about because it's supposed to keep hanging over Serbs. We don't have the right to have the state donate and give us real estate, and over a thousand and 100 properties in Vukovar have been donated. We don't have the right not to pay the bills. We don't have the rights of some other citizens, but we live in Vukovar because we want and love to live there. These are our homes, it's our not some way where our ancestors lived. He's talking about it all, and I've said it before, so that's what the city is talking about. So speaking the baroque core of the city of Vukovar, says the City Museum of Vukovar, the famous famous Serbs in Vukovar, Paunovica. Who mentioned... ? Well, no one. It is essential that Serbs have a stigma that they have committed a major crime and that all other discrimination is being built on it. However, when an assistant minister asked how Serbs do not have PTSD or how if Ivanka and Ivanka were wounded, Ivanka was a civilian victim of war, Johnka did not. His shift was immediately requested. Why? So isn't that a fact? Yeah, that's a fact. Census of the population, I think we've made this absolutely clear today as far as the total population is concerned. I was talking about a guideline on the consistent application of the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities. Well, that was, in a way, a promise to both these and the last government that it would be passed, so to apply the law in the use of language and letter. You said yourself you weren't very pleased. Whether this proposal that you have now made will remain, therefore, the disbanding of the representative body if it does not adopt the statute will be seen. However, we have many examples like this. We have examples in school where schools have not been registered for 18 years but are not in the city of Vukovar but in the county of Vukovar-Srijem. The State Statistics Institute report I heard from some city councillors who say we should repeat the list in the town of Vukovar. We know how, the first thing the census was implemented under the Law on the census that was passed to me in 2010 or 2011 under EUROSTAT rules and it was worth a certain time interval. So it started on 31.03., it seems to me, or from 1.04. to the end of the 4th month, and he kept the list, and then there was another control, and everything was okay with that. I'm going to repeat it one more time is not the bilingualism some people wanted, which some people want to say is from '99. Or 2000. I will once again show this directive, and unfortunately, it may also be a problem for citizens not knowing but also politicians about some documents that are extremely important for the Republic of Croatia and that have taken over their obligations both the Republic of Croatia and the Serb community. And if we really wanted the majority people to contribute to establishing some trust I ask you why some other cities didn't apply positive legal regulations. It says here that some parts of the city will not be introduced with a Serbian letter, and I ask, "Why don't we introduce ourselves in some cities?" The law allows it. For example, why not introduce bilingualism in Tenja? The suburban settlement of Osijek? Why don't we introduce bilingualism in the Mirkovci near Vinkovci? Why in some other cities and places, perhaps in Benkovec or Knin or other cities? But we don't want to. Anyway, we'll always be and we've always been for dialogue. At the end of the day, we were so self-contained and in 2009, when the Statute of the city of Vukovar was being changed, we were in favour of dialogue and we had this conversation at HDZ headquarters in Vukovar where it was also a member of the HDZ, and now of the HDZB Slavica Jelinić. So no one had a problem with it, and together we worked out that statute, suggested and adopted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116316	Thank you very much. We have one replica, dear Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116317	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I didn't mean to pick up my coworker, but I can't help it. You say it's on the Serbs. Well, that's not true! It's not on the Serbs' Stigma. The Serbs defended Vukovar and Croatia along with us. So, Vukovar as its city and Croatia as its homeland. And there's no dowry on such Serbs, though. You say the minister spoke of Serbs who have PTSD. So he didn't talk about the Serb people, he talked about the members of the movement that attacked Vukovar and about the PTSD he was talking about. And here I have to say, you still have a monument in Borovo Sela for the Croatian directors' killer in the Croatian state. So enter today as a Croat in Borovo Village and say that you are Croat and ask how will you pass? I didn't mean to talk about this, but I should say, let it be known. It's not the Croats. It's not our fault we're under attack. Is that what we're guilty of? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116318	Replicate response, respected representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116319	Well, you know very well that you can enter not only the village of Borovo, but wherever you want, and it's absolutely not a matter of any controversy, Mr. Miles, it's perfectly normal. And you know the same about some Jakovljevics, Damjanovic, Mrkics, some people who disappeared in Vukovar. Yeah, I'm not from Vukovar, and you said well, I live in Vukovar now, you lived until the war, I suppose. Yeah, I was born in the Vinkovci. And I'm asking you why did I have to leave Vinkovci? Why did thousands of people like me have to leave their cities, villages, houses and apartments? Why? Because we felt free, because I felt safe? Because I felt like nothing was going to happen to me, or it's going to happen to me like, say, these Vukovar people I've just listed and they've been taken and today they don't know where they are. And you know it very well. I don't think you know where they are, but I think you know those facts. And this is in some situations, as you call out, so we call upon absolutely you who know and who have lived. You said well, so look how long it's gone, how many of your neighbours haven't had Serbs since before the war in Vukovar and what happened to them?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116320	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac for the final 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116321	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the esteemed co-workers and colleagues of the SDSS Committee believe that in today's debate, we rarely drifted away from what is a fundamental topic and that we engaged in those segments of debate that do not help achieve what the Constitutional Court's opinion has set as a framework for achieving consensus both in the City of Vukovar and in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. And two things are, one is respect for war victims, especially from the ranks of members of the majority Croatian people, and the other is respect for the rights of the Serb national minority to the official use of language and Cyrillic letters. And these two things were often wrongly debated, and rarely used for a purpose that was not intended to achieve dialogue. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, we said we should go to the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the two-thirds majority. Because it is a law that is so passed and because it is a matter prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so on matter of human and minority rights. It is always foreseen that changes are made by a two-thirds majority, and we should do everything as some colleagues here have pleaded, including colleagues with whom we have had polemic tones such as their HDSSB colleagues, we should do everything possible to ensure the two-thirds majority, and it would be best if colleagues from HDZ participated in this and not trying to avoid the obligation to bring the two-thirds majority. And secondly, what counterpart Lesar was saying we must show by example to the City Council of Vukovar, on which it is a special responsibility to adopt the status of accessing matter in this debate, and on the other hand, we need to show an example of how to form the majority in order to vote the Statute. Avoiding certain clubs to discuss the scale of things like today's HDZ colleagues tried to say that here with this legal solution about the Commissioner wants to change the will of the people, we all know it's not true. We can agree whether the Commissioner's institute is good and whether it should be otherwise, we can discuss it but the intention is certainly not that, and we all know well if someone would try to do it to make the people's will come back as a boomerang. Therefore, it makes no sense to use it as an argument in the debate because it is not a measure of things. And what I would like to say once again, the council members of the Vukovar City Council must be, they must be returned to the mandate given to them by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. That term was taken by the mayor. The mayor went with his will to form a commission that works in the Statute and took away and did not include any of the members of the Serb community, which he should have. But what he needed first was to empower the city council to do it, because the city council is bound to do it. For this reason, respected colleagues and colleagues as we will have a key question as to whether we are able to meet constitutional and business obligations? Some of the vital documents and vital laws that this Assembly should pass, such as the Law on Languages, such as the law concerning the rights of national minorities or human rights and such as the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, whether we will have the power to overcome the differences between us, the differences that exist between us in terms of experience and to put ourselves above them and to raise the consensus that is necessary for such laws and such transactions to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116322	Thank you, dear fellow Pupovac. Time's up. And now, on behalf of the promoters, respected representatives Josip Salapic and Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will use my business opportunity as one of the motions for debate and conclusions to thank all those who contributed to the dialogue and debate today. Likewise to those who called us at certain times that we had strayed from the debate, we only responded to those comments when the speaker behind this pay phone, like you, Mr. Pupovac, looked at the badges that we wear and the case that has nothing to do with the conclusion in question, so we also responded because it was polite to respond to what you were saying here. But there's no need to look back on that. I call as the Constitutional Court has said to dialogue, dialogue is needed, although sometimes it was unpleasant for those who listen to it, but in any case, if they talk more, we will come to better legal solutions and better understanding, regardless of our political views at a given time and time, they do not have to agree, but it is important that those who need to understand us will support them, and these are all Croatian citizens regardless of their nationality. I think that our good intentions in our proposal have made our contribution to calming the situation in the city of Vukovar, that the HDSB club is then in the memory column of 2013, 2014, and this year too will be a factor of calming, understanding and common life of all Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116324	Thank you very much. Dinko Buric. No, I don't. Thank you. We thus exhausted the list of respondents to the debate on these topics and the final words of the promoter. We'll vote on the bill's proposals and the conclusion when the conditions come to pass, I mean tomorrow. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 858. ... An emergency procedure has been removed? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ma, the legislator withdrew the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed law, so I am voting on the following conclusion: 1) The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia has been adopted 2) All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 89 votes, five abstentions and 21 votes against the proposed conclusion. Proposal for a conclusion on the issue of the establishment of bilingual inscriptions in the city of Vukovar and the application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The proposal for a conclusion on the problem of the placing of bilingual inscriptions in the city of Vukovar and the application of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities proposed by one third of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 1 vote abstention and 25 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116926	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Article 126(2) The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 6(1). The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that the procedure for running the Constitutional Court judges and proposing elections in the Croatian Parliament is carried out by the Board of the Croatian Parliament responsible for the Constitution. In accordance with the above provisions, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament has called on the judicial institutions of the Faculty of Law, the Bar Association, legal associations, political parties, other legal persons and individuals to propose candidates for the selection of two judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which was announced on 19 January 2015. On the basis of the provision of Article 6. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, following the expiry of the deadline for the submission of applications, established at the 84th session held on 17 March 2015 that 12 candidates had arrived at the time and had been found to be eligible from 11 candidates. In accordance with the above, the Committee held a public conversation with the candidates, and subsequently held at the session on 28 April 2015, and based on the discussion conducted, as well as the documentation proposed by the candidates in addition to the nominations, it was determined by three candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and by alphabetical order, Mladen Bajic, Sanja Baric and Ivana Calic. The Committee considers that it is candidates who meet the high criteria that must meet the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, that they are persons known not only to the professional but to the general public, and that the choice of any of the proposed candidates can only help further build up a prominent institution in which they are elected. Now let me say a few more words about this proposal. In his final address on the previous agenda, Pupovac pointed to certain problems and to a certain will for consensus. We today see in the assembly that there are certain political options in Croatia from both left and right, which are ready to talk. However, we can also see that one side of the assembly stands completely empty, and that is the one on which HDZ sits. And I can say that I am extremely sad that the distinguished representatives of the HDZ neither here today in the assembly nor in the committee meetings that discussed the candidates for the Constitutional Court's judges would not participate. And you know why they wouldn't participate? Because we didn't want to agree to a political trade. We wanted this procedure to run for the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court in the spirit of the 2010 Constitution change when we introduced the two-thirds majority as a condition for selecting judges of the Constitutional Court. We wanted to implement it in a way that we would choose as judges of the Constitutional Court persons whose integrity and knowledge no one would doubt. We wanted to avoid situations where the Administrative Court made decisions that certain candidates did not meet the conditions for the Constitutional Court judges, and that the Constitutional Court abolished it. We wanted to avoid situations for the Constitutional Court to be chosen by persons who could not become judges of the county court. However, one political option did not want to agree to this. I will finish here now, I will invite you all to participate in this debate, to discuss the procedure of how the board has chosen and proposed these candidates to discuss the candidates we have proposed, and I will invite you all to participate in this vote when we vote whether or not you support certain candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116927	Thank you too, dear fellow President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and the respected representative Davorin Mlakar. He's not in the hall, so he's losing his right to discuss this matter. I call upon the honourable representative of Damir Cain on behalf of the Independent List's Club of Representatives. He is not in the Chamber of the Croatian Parliament, he is losing the right to discuss this topic. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116928	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. For the representatives of the people in this case of the Croatian political people, there is no more significant opportunity for discussion than the budget, except for fundamental human minority rights, national security and the issue of the Constitutional Court. But we, in our chance, spent our energy and our concentration when it came to the issue of the Constitutional Court. And it is a great pity that certain clubs in the Croatian Parliament first and foremost raise the opposition club of the Croatian Democratic Community has no interest in the issue of the Constitutional Court and has no interest in that set of laws such as the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court as a premise of improving the overall work of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. And at this point we can freely say avoiding the crisis in the functioning of the Supreme Institution in the Republic of Croatia such as the Constitutional Court. We have 12 constitutional judges at the moment, and in the next day one of them will retire, so there will be 11 of them. For a long time, the Constitutional Court has not worked in full composition and in the necessary composition, because there is no ability to ensure the necessary two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament. And that means that particular and party interests are overcome and consensus is reached on the criteria, on the conditions, and then on the candidates, he's gone. It is not because, unfortunately, even if we are partying to a supreme constitutional instance, it is no wonder that we are partying because we are turning the entire judiciary into a means of political reckoning, political obstruction and political colonization. Instead of fighting for the judiciary to have as much autonomy as possible, instead of fighting for the State Judicial Council, that the Judicial Academy can carry out the necessary reforms both human and educational and evaluation and each other that the judicial system functions independently of us as parties and independently of the Parliament, we have actually witnessed in recent years an unholy invasion of influence and the creation of influence on judicial institutions. And as a consequence, we have what we have in relation to the Constitutional Court. This means that we are obstructing from here to fulfil the necessary obligation arising from the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, which stems from the Constitution. We're from here, from the Parliament. Because we want to continue our campaign, if it can't be our way, then there will be obstruction. It has double, double negative consequences. The first negative consequence is that the serious candidates and candidates we should have for the Constitutional Court run away from it. And it's a miracle that we got these three that we're going to discuss tomorrow, which is what we're discussing today, and tomorrow we're going to vote on. It's a miracle. And it is a great pity that, by the best tradition that we haven't yet done with tradition, but the tradition of serious democracies, we don't have the competence between different judicial philosophies, the judicial worldview, the jurisprudence. We don't have it. And it would be a big deal if the HDZ colleagues had proposed either incentives or stimulated, or all of us together stimulated that we had candidates and candidates who were more conservative, some of whom were more of a different school or philosophy, and we don't have that. We don't. And, of course, I don't have the ability to encourage ourselves to have people who will stand out for professionalism. The last such consensus was reached in ancient times and not glorious times. Unfortunately, here in the House, but also by party criteria, not by value criteria, the position of the Constitutional Judge and the Constitutional Court is looking for. So we are obliged to ensure tomorrow that among those who are proposed choose as best as possible. For two reasons, first, to prevent a crisis that the Constitutional Court may enter. We also have a second obligation to ensure that people we are sure will have independence in the professional, moral and personal sense of that word. Who will know and who will be able to resist the challenges faced by people who are in the role of constitutional judges rarely find themselves in relation to those who have power, political, money power or some other kind of power. This is extremely important because we are witnessing that at various instances of judicial authority and powers really feel, see, and manifest themselves. If you have money, then you have judgment, that is. Freedom. If you don't have the money, then you won't have the verdict, or you won't have the freedom. And that's unfortunately our situation in a large number of cases especially in sensitive cases, especially in sensitive cases. What seems particularly important to me is that the Constitutional Court is a place from which the overall philosophy of the work of the judiciary is reflected, the overall spirit of the work of the judiciary, the total force of justice. If things do not work in the Constitutional Court, if there are difficulties in the teaming, in the election or anything else, then it will naturally reflect on the work of lower courts without further doubt and without doubt because it is thus destroying the authority of the Constitutional Court and then the authority of the entire judiciary is destroyed. Of these three proposed candidates and candidates, there is no doubt that we MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament can make a choice. Everyone will choose according to their own assessment, each will choose according to their own knowledge, but there is no doubt that the clubs in the Assembly have the opportunity to make a choice, not complete, I will say it one more time. Not completely, because there was no proposal from all sides. If they had come, then we'd have a chance to make a complete choice. And I hope that tomorrow we will make at least such and such a choice that this will be an example of what should be done in the autumn, and in the autumn we need to make a serious and large choice, crucial for the future functioning of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and thus the overall constitutional power in the Republic of Croatia. The SDSS advocates' club will vote tomorrow according to the assessment and assessment of the proposed candidates and will contribute to the prevailing state of the crisis in which the Constitutional Court enters and, of course, prepare itself for what we have pleaded for in this debate, which is to build a 2/3 majority in the Assembly, regardless of the party differences, regardless of the polemics that we can have when the injuries are sensitive and offensive in view of our experiences, in view of our world horizons and since we could all go through in terrible war years together. And we consider this our important task as a club and all those who contribute to it we will consider ourselves to be people with full right and full consciousness who can be called serious and responsible swearers to the Croatian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116929	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have two replicas. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116930	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Pupovac, you have very nicely, clearly and accurately described what the procedure of electing the Constitutional Court judges should look like, so that in this procedure we should face opinions, our views on the judiciary, our views on the functioning of the institution, but also our views on the Constitution. The Constitution Committee carried out the procedure in accordance with both the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. Every step of the procedure was transparent and public. Many of us sitting here and we took part in this, asking questions to the candidates, and making our remarks about this process. And there is one huge problem, and the problem is when the first day of the process refuses to participate in the country's largest opposition party. But not only is it not because it does not make it impossible to say it, but it makes it difficult to reach consensus and the 2/3 majority is always a consensus, but the problem in their non-participation is that neither we as board members, but even more important than that, the Croatian public does not know what the biggest opposition party thinks about this process and about the candidates we have received. You were talking about these candidates. I really think we have three good candidates in front of us, top state lawyers, judges, law professors. I think of them all the best. The letter that you have all received as the opinion of the board describes why we have given them support. But I don't have a chance to hear why these candidates don't answer to someone, and I think I have a right to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116931	Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116932	It is a great shame that such important things as this choice of Constitutional Court judges do not have a full debate and no full participation. I fully agree with you, Mr Grbin, that the decision of the HDZ colleagues not to take part in the work of the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure is completely inexplicable and incomprehensible and it is to the detriment of the Constitutional Court, and it is to the detriment of this House, and it is to the detriment of what we, as representatives, should actually do by the act of the oath. As a representative of national minorities, I am very often able to value that some things are not being done the way I think they should and are far from being done the way I think the electoral body that chooses me and I represent would be in the interest of working with. But obstruction, non-participation, non-participation I find devastating for all those who participate in political life, and in particular such things as the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, especially in matters that depend on the vital stability of interpretation and judgment in the issues of constitutional law, and we have come to the conclusion that this sometimes appears to us as questionable. To contribute to this is harmful, working in favor is dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116933	Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116934	Here is a colleague in the replica, and also in the debate you express your concern as well as your colleague, Peja Grbin, why there is no major opposition party, and indeed here in 25 years did they even advance in their democracy and life. You're wondering why they're not here. They're not in the process at all. But they are gone, and they have given a hint because their logic because they have learned, no one could have prevented them from doing so before. If it's not going to be my way, then we're not going to be part of it. How immature, how irresponsible, how irresponsible to the Croatian Assembly so irresponsible and to the Constitutional Court itself. In fact, recently a few months ago, they were surrounded by how they would have a two-thirds majority, and I guess in their imagination they themselves chose all the judges of the Constitutional Court. And here it looks like he's not going to pick either one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116935	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn and the respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116936	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the SDP club from the beginning very actively participated in the work, in the decision-making process and has been prepared for tomorrow's decision to elect two judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. We don't think, like, ever before, any pre-prepared shops or any kind of rush to give any kind of signal to certain people. That is why we have actually received a very wide range of candidates from whom the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system really had the room to decide, in its opinion, in a democratic way that the candidates, the best candidates of these candidates, would propose for judges of the Constitutional Court. What has so far been done and why is this public and why the public has thus gotten the wrong impression that the discussion of the Constitutional Court judges in the first place is seen as political trade, while on the other hand in other countries, starting from across Europe where consensus is needed everywhere, is considered to be the maturity of political competitors, i.e. both the authorities and the opposition. Namely, since it was known in advance who would come forward, these are the other candidates who would come forward, who knew. They didn't even answer, and then they had candidates who didn't know if they were ever meeting age years, or internships, so they could be judges of the Constitutional Court. So much so that the ruling thinks about the position, the role of the Constitutional Court in general and constitutional judges. It's really sad and it worries, because decisions of the Constitutional Court in every country, and so also in the Republic of Croatia often affect the everyday lives of citizens. We think we've just got good candidates, that we'll be able to make a good decision about them tomorrow. But once again, by finishing this very short address, we express serious concerns, so we do not like this fact that in the Croatian Parliament there is not a single member of the HDZ and let alone a single member of the HDZ to participate in this debate. It worries, it speaks of a serious democratic deficit. Imagine their responsibility, imagine that alternative being offered tomorrow will be power. Look at what he's doing as an opposition today, everything will be clear to you what they're saying at all, let alone what they'd be doing to come to power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116937	Thank you, too, dear colleague. On behalf of the Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, its President-in-Office, Mr Peja Grbin. Finally, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116938	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'll tell you the truth why I just answered my word. Because, as chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, I cannot allow the debate on candidates for the Constitutional Court to last less than half an hour, because I believe that such a debate offends the institution we are discussing today. And when I talk about it, I have to go back a long way, and today we're back, unfortunately, on the previous agenda point far into the past. Some were talking about a thousand years ago, others were talking about a hundred. I'm going to talk today about something that happened 215 years ago. It happened in the United States when US President John Adams, on his knees, installed his good friend and fellow judge Marshall. In the next 35 years, Judge Marshall has left a deep mark not only in American history, but in all legal history anywhere in the world. Why? Because Judge Marshall created the constitutional trial we know today. He created it in 1803 in the historic decision of the US Supreme Court... when the Courts Act of 1789 was abolished, which was passed by the administration that it somehow belonged to. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Why? Because for the first time in democratic history, a judicial body that we consider to be a constitutional court today regardless of what is called the Supreme Court of the United States told the legislator, and remember it is the beginning of the 19th century. The already democratically elected legislator is then almost a miracle, and then have the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, which tells such a legislator you have limits within which you can act, and these limits are set by the Constitution. There with the Constitution of the United States, this monument of constitutionality, and with us the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the monument of Croatian statehood and independence. The Constitutional Court here in Mark's square not far from us is watching over us, over the legislator, over the operation of the entire executive, judicial and legislative authorities. The Constitutional Court does not belong to any of the branches of the government, it is located outside them. And it is necessary to ensure that the Constitution is implemented and that none of these branches of government go astray. I don't think either of us can look in the mirror and say that the body of the government that he belonged to, and even when he was involved, she didn't make a mistake at least once, and it was rude. Sometimes on purpose, sometimes on purpose. That's why there's this institution a few dozen feet from us, to make sure that these mistakes happen and if the papers happen. We don't always have to agree with constitutional court decisions, but we have to respect them. Croatia is one of the few countries that has amazing but amazing respect for the Constitutional Court's decisions. In 25 years of Croatian independence only 1 decision of the Constitutional Court was not implemented, only 1. Because so far, we've all had respect for that institution. This procedure that we have conducted and which today enters its finals, which should be completed tomorrow, I hope by selecting at least one candidate for the Constitutional Court judge, has been implemented under new rules that require a two-thirds majority of us. These rules also require me as chairman of the board, from my fellow committee members, as well as the political parties sitting in this Croatian Assembly first to respect the procedure, and then as part of this procedure to do something. Those rules don't ask us to make deals under the table. We, I, have tried this procedure to carry out the most transparent possible. Every step was public. We didn't encourage anyone to run, we didn't ask anyone. We've invited all those institutions that I've listed in the opening statement to propose those they think are the best. We got 12 candidates. Of those candidates, 11 met the conditions. We listened to them, we read their résumés, there were three other board members sitting there, talking to these people and eventually voting on them. You can all confirm that no one was pulling anyone's sleeve, that the deal wasn't there. There was only one wish, between those 12, pardon 11 that were finally ahead of us, to choose at least 2 that we consider the best. That's what we did. In accordance with the constitutional law on the Constitutional Court, we have proposed three candidates because the Constitutional Law says it proposes at least as much as the Committee is elected, and in general more than that. That's what we did. I'll do it again, you don't have to be happy with those candidates, though. You can think they're bad, you can think they're bad, but then you have to come here and say it. And now I'm gonna do it one more time, and that's where I'm gonna end up on behalf of the board, again. We've chosen the best among the candidates we've arrived. We have chosen those we believe, based on their work so far in the State's Attorney's Office, in the court and in the university, have shown that they deserve to sit down like I've already said a few times 10 meters from us. You can agree with it or not, but come here, come to the Croatian public, come to us your colleagues, risk your replica, risk your response and say what was wrong in the procedure and what was wrong with these candidates. And who is not capable of doing so can only grieve and leave him on his conscience as to what he is risking to prevent the functioning of one of the most important authorities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116939	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Dear Representative Dinko Buric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116940	Thank you, Mr. President. When you mentioned a single decision that has not been implemented, you reminded me that if we did not, I would remind you of another decision of the Constitutional Court, which is that the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that we all use here in the Croatian Parliament is in line with the Constitutional Court's decision that said that this text which has been officially used and beyond 2010 does not comply with the nomotechnical rules. Well, here's if we were thinking of the same in line, if I don't know about this decision, so I'd like to hear it from you. If this one is the same, if I do not invite the Croatian Parliament, all of us together to implement this Constitutional Court decision and finally to all the Croatian public, and not only to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, we allow the proper and proper use of the Constitution. Because here we have articles that very often we wrongly and contraryly use the Constitutional Court’s decision even in making legal solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116941	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116942	Thank you, Mr. President. No, we don't mean the same decision. The decision I was talking about happened out there in '98. In the year, it referred to the Household Law and addressed the issue of protected tenants. And what you're talking about is not a decision of the Constitutional Court, it is a recommendation from the Constitutional Court where the Constitutional Court has taken a certain position, not in the light of a decision but in the light of a recommendation that is not binding in this respect, in which way the consolidated texts of the regulations should be drawn up in their position. However, most of the professional public, among other things, Prof. In his textbook, Mr. Smerdel disagrees with such a recommendation from the Constitutional Court, although they even point out that the Constitutional Court made a grave mistake when it does not publish on its websites the only official text of the Croatian Constitution, which is the one established by the Committee on the Constitution and published in the National Journal, but has its own variant that it has made in its rules. And that the Constitutional Court gave way to insisting on its variant, we can see from the Constitutional Court's decisions in December 2013 and January 2014 when the referendum on how constitutionally defined marriage would be used both numbers and everything else and defined that the change was made in an article numbered in accordance with the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as published in the National Journal by the Croatian Parliament. So we can say that the Constitutional Court has reset in this respect. But look, it is normal in a democratic society, because in a democratic society and in a democratic system like the Croatian institutions and co-operate, so sometimes a few pull back on their own, some pull back on the other side, but regardless of whether the article is 27 or 26. it's what it says and we all do it and we respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116943	I ask you colleagues to help me draw up an integral text of the Constitution after the referendum if you are already dealing with this, the last referendum. Who will make him who publishes him, give me a solution when you know. Thank you very much. On behalf of, the replica of respected MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116944	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Pedja, you are rightly saying that you are expressing concern, that we could not really talk to the biggest opposition party, talk about who might be even more quality, who, by their understanding, is more acceptable from their point of view for whom they judge and world-famous close to them. Because let's be completely open, these are legitimate issues and they're completely open and there's no political trade. Apparently, HDZ colleagues were offended that they had not been signaled in advance to tell people who would answer. We didn't do it for ourselves or anyone. It was time to discuss candidates during procedures such as that in all systems where candidates of unquestionable moral integrity, unquestioned knowledge is only discussed which is, therefore, for which party to ruling or opposition is closer to worldly. And it is everywhere from America, to their Supreme Court, if it plays the role of the Constitutional Court to the Constitutional Courts across Europe, always one balance between the worldview, whether left or right, and that the candidates who are proposed are not from either side, and there often the executive authority has such powers to propose but not directly to Parliament, but rather to the majority, the opposition to propose those candidates who are not absolutely quality, who are morally questionable. You don't come if you're not like that, you're out of the question. So here's another copy, but in what way should we support ourselves in this one regret? Indeed, such things in Croatia concern themselves regardless of the opposition and the opposite opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-09-0.u116945	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of respondents to the debate, the list of replicas and the reply to the replica. So the debate on the text of the decision is over. We will have a secret vote on the motion for a decision, i.e. on the candidates tomorrow. So at 9.30 we begin the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament by voting and behind this we will discuss the item of the agenda final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the right to access to information, second reading, P.Z.E.BR.832. Thank you very much for your work today. I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30. Session adjourned at 8:15 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the motion for a decision on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the debate on the proposal for a decision has been concluded. Before we approach the vote, I will inform you about how to vote and determine the results of the election. The business Croatian Parliament shall determine as a rule the implementation of a secret vote in the case where the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number to be elected, that is, Article 260. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Article 260 to Article 267 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. A secret vote shall be held on ballots. The ballots are the same size, colors and shapes and are certified by the Assembly's seal. The candidate's name list lists them in alphabetical order. The ballots are being prepared by the Secretary of Parliament. A number of MPs shall also assist the chairperson in the secret vote with the secretary of the plenary session. MPs who help the president conduct a secret vote hand over to voters. The handover of ballots shall be recorded on the list of MPs by rounding up the regular number in front of the representative's name, which shall be submitted to the representative's list. The number of ballot boxes and places to be held shall be determined by the Secretary of Parliament. The vote in each ballot box is attended by one of the representatives elected to assist the president. In the event of a re-vote, the session shall be suspended to prepare new ballots. The vote again follows the same procedure as the first vote. Only one ballot can be voted by the representative and only by the candidates listed in the ballot in person. The MP votes by rounding up a regular number in front of the candidate's name. A ballot rounding a regular number in front of the name of more candidates than the number to be elected, a not-filled ballot or ballot from which it cannot be clearly and unequivocally determined for which candidate the voter voted is considered invalid. After all present deputies handed over ballots and after the chairman announced that the vote had been completed, the vote was moved to determine the results of the vote in the session hall. The results of the vote shall be determined by the chairman in the presence of MPs who have helped him vote on the basis of the cast ballots. The Chair shall publish the results of the elections and appointments at the same session at which a secret vote has been held. The chairman shall announce how many MPs have received ballots, how many MPs have voted in total, how many invalid ballots there have been and how many MPs voted in favour of the election, or for the appointment of an individual candidate. Furthermore, the chairman shall declare which candidates have been elected or appointed. I note that the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia requires a two-thirds majority of the votes of all MPs, which means at least 101 votes, Article 126. The Constitution of the I propose that the representatives who will assist me in the vote be Igor Češek, Zlatko Tušak, Sonja König, Marija Lugarić and Goran Marić. Is there any objection to the proposal of a colleague who will help me? There isn't. Thank you very much. I estimate that we have agreed on how to vote and who will help the president. For the vote, I'll set a 30-minute recess. It's 10:00.55.
