ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u118341	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I'm asking for a break on behalf of the ORAH Club on the grounds of irresponsible parliamentary issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u118342	Okay. Thank you very much. Damir Cain, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u118343	Due to the new obligations that tourist workers will have with regard to the registration of their apartments, houses, apartments for rent.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u118344	Okay. There aren't any other clubs, they're not answering. Thank you very much. We're leaving at 9.10, can we get enough? Resume session at 9.10. Thank you very much. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:10 AM]] Now, I ask the honourable representative, Mirel Holly, on behalf of the ORAH Club, to present the subject to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u118346	Thank you, Your Honor. Here we are at the very end of the term of office, as things stand, we will be disbanded on Friday, and you, President of the Parliament, at the beginning of this session, warned the government of a hundred outstanding parliamentary questions. In my opinion, it is a very big problem because at the end of the role of the Parliament to be the controller of the work of the executive government and we who are in this House are actually MPs and thus we represent all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The government's non-response on parliamentary MPs' issues implies in fact total disrespect for the citizens who elected MPs to the parliament. I'll just mention that the government has remained in my debt on 15 parliamentary issues. One of these parliamentary issues was raised in the 3rd month of 2014, so they did not answer 1.5 years of this parliamentary question. I didn't even get the information that made the government unable to answer my question. There were a few rushes that you sent, but without any results. Other questions I didn't get an answer with regard to the Ministry of Economy's wave of resolution, so it's e.g. one of these issues related to the contract signed by the Ministry of Economy with Spectrum. The question was raised in November 2014 although I have repeatedly warned publicly that the Government should answer this question and deliver to me the contract signed by the Ministry of Economy with Spectrum until today has not been answered. There are also issues related to Petrochemia, the situation in Petrochemia, the situation in Brodosplit, and then the issue is related to writing, services and the Croatian State Archives is a major same affair, then there is the Innovation Act, the Law on Helpers Dogs, then the topic related to fracking in Međimurje, then some questions not answered by the Ministry of Environmental Protection are related to the rules on pyrolysis also from November 2014. Channeling, not building sewerage in Veli Luka, is also a question that has not been answered since the beginning of 2015, so the question arises why the Government of the Republic of Croatia is unable to answer very specific questions concerning its work. After all, I asked these questions because I was asked by the citizens, so I represent the interests of the citizens, and since we are at the very end of the mandate, I am once again warning the Government of the obligation, that it is duty to answer the questions of the representatives of us sitting in this House because they are thus responding at the end and to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is not good practice to ignore the Croatian Parliament in this way. Finally, at the beginning of the term of office of the government, it was said that the quality of work in the Croatian Parliament would actually rise, that the Croatian Parliament would be restored to dignity, in this way the dignity of the work of the Croatian Parliament is not restored.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u118347	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Kai's tourist problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u118348	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, but before I do, I'm going to say, I'm going to mention an unanswered question about small coastal fishing. Last year, there were reportedly 11 to 13 thousand small fishing permits in Istria alone, and this year I allegedly own our citizens only 11 permits. The application for permission has been submitted by 4 217 people, and some I assure you is the permit of existence and indeed I ask that these people come out simply to meet because some in this way achieve some additional family income. It's not a problem for those who have large incomes, the problem is with those who just supplement the home budget. However, I have been asked by a dozen citizens for the fact that by 1.1. everyone who rents their facilities must build this or these energy documents or documents, energy certificates to be more precise. Normally, it will require certain new costs. For example, the usual family house of 200 square meters that has one or two apartments is from five to several thousand kunas. Otherwise, as you may or may not know in Croatia, we have 62,000 private tenants and all of them logically based on the European Directive and our law are obliged to produce this certificate by 1.1.2016. Five thousand kuna is a minimum penalty for those who do not have a certificate. Ten thousand kuna is the maximum penalty for those who don't have a certificate. It is common that the procedure lasts from 15 to 30 days, the certificate should be valid for about 10 years. The fact is also that in the Republic of Croatia, hundreds of legal, physical persons are involved in making these certificates, but as we know, we do everything at the last minute and the question is whether these people will simply be able to meet their obligation and simply beg in a way to extend that deadline, fearing the penalties mentioned or prevented. Otherwise, it should also be correct to recognise that the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund is financing both the inspection and certification of craft-owned buildings, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises. And that should be fair and should be pointed out, but the problem is with these small tenants. Is that the season might have been better than it was last year because of all the circumstances surrounding us or that were happening in our neighborhood, but now it's a matter of time. No one escapes the obligation, but I said as always the last moment is the question is whether it will be possible to do so, and then people are afraid of being prevented here before the penalties mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u118349	We've arranged this so that representatives' clubs can present their views on a subject. Dear Mirela Holly has asked for an answer to the parliamentary questions, and we have ured several times. The government's commitment remains because the parliamentary mandate continues until the Croatian Parliament's new assembly is established. When it's gonna be, we don't know. I hope that the government and the ministries will respond in accordance with their obligations and that the answers will be thorough given that it has been a long time. As far as fellow Caine is concerned, I made it legal. I think it may have been carried out for a reason, but the last day, so there's no way to intervene except for the government's regulation, and I wouldn't suggest it. Now we'll have a break by 9.30. Thank you very much. We'll continue at 9.30. It's 9:00. 20 o'clock. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, we continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the established agenda. It is now time : - Final bill on the establishment of the University of Slavonski Brod, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 917; The Proposer of this Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education of Science and Culture. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Science, Education and Sports Professor Vedran Morar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120239	I will be very brief, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs. We're going with this law for a few reasons. The first of course is the geostrategic position of Slavonski Brod and the number of higher educations in the region compared to the rest of Croatia where there are 26% higher education students, in this region there is only 15%. There are already some highly educated institutions that could be integrated into a small integrated one, emphasising an integrated university and thus achieving assumptions for the development of the end, thus also attracting a large number of students from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Bosnian ship is across the river. And we think that for Slavonski Brod and for the region the establishment of such a university would be a big step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120240	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Dear Representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120241	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, from this explanation of yours, you're not convinced yourself of the need to form this university. I want to say right away, in principle, that I am to form universities. Some countries have a rule that if there are 250,000 residents, that's enough reason. However, how in this situation when you know yourself that scientific work is funded on a drop, when you know that you have at least 2,000 scientific recruits waiting for a promotion, or that they can get a job, when you know that only a few dozen new jobs are approved? How can you go in such a situation, agree to the formation of a new university? Because that new university assumes not only the mere integration of these existing universities. In other words, it will not increase the number because new programmes are not offered, but capacities are the same in the long term, likely to increase that number. But until financial resources are increased and funds are calculated mainly from the budget there is no way these objectives are achieved which are justified on the one hand but... So, on the other hand, it's irrational, it's unexplainable except for the logic of the election campaign that you're going through an emergency procedure without extensive public debate, without the opinion of other universities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I think it would be best if you withdraw this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120242	The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Vedran Sailor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120243	Thank you very much. So I'd like very briefly, we're going into this establishment precisely because it won't at least start to make a new cost to the state budget. Of course, if that university grew and we hope that in the future with the growth of GDP and the budget we are just witnessing and that will happen. So at this point, it's no extra cost. And as for the problem that you, thank you very much for touching, scientific recruits who can't find a job, this particular government has ensured that these scientific money all to one is actually being employed at universities and soon and will be at institutes and I think that some significant steps have been made in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120244	Thank you very much. Do representatives or presidents of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture wish to present their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the HDSSB's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120245	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, we're glad you're here. I don't think it's hard for you to defend this bill of yours that goes according to an emergency procedure, and it doesn't take much effort to defend it if we take into account everything I'm about to say. Namely, I don't know why no one from HDZ or SDP has ever objected to why in Slavonia and Slavonski Brod, in Brod-Posavina County and all of our 5 counties when we pay for electricity VAT goes electricity in HEP, so who has headquarters in Zagreb and it actually goes, so nothing goes to the island of VAT in Slavonia etc.. It's the only way to schedule that tax to the government. Slavons, Baranci, Podravci, Srijemci are doing their duties neatly, mostly as well as they can. So since the average salary in Slavonia is lower than the Republic of Croatia by 1000 kuna. But we can see that coming back to her. You see all together and you see for yourself. 35% of the EU's GDP, so much Slavonia is therefore developed in relation to the European Union. Zagreb, and we have nothing against Zagreb because it is our capital, the centre and centre of the Croatian state and all Croatians, has 125% of the average GDP of the European Union. How come your soul doesn't hurt you once for all the governments that have worked for this Slavonia? In Slavonski Brod, after learning about this decision, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia will go through an urgent procedure, so the proposal for a law on the establishment of a university in Slavonski Brod has also created one such questionable thinking. Those who were formerly and even the media advocated the establishment of a university in Slavonski Brod are now suddenly most likely party-stricken against it, although the aim of the town of Slavonski Brod and the County of Slavonsko-Posaviska, which is also drawn in the documents of the County of Brod-Posavina is the establishment of a university in Slavonski Brod. When we discussed here a month ago the establishment of the University of the North, which was here, in Koprivnica, a city twice smaller by the number of inhabitants of Slavonski Brod and which affects twice the population of its surroundings because we have both Varazdin and other higher education institutions, then there were no such ones I would say a bit of party bickering. So the University of North in Koprivnica, and for the University of Slavonski Brod we have various comments. And what the goal is actually saying, I am the second term in the Parliament, when I entered the Croatian Parliament, then the Brodjans Doctors told me to try to achieve two things, one is the underpass to so-called. Osijek Street on the 423 state road passing by daily, so that road is 20,000 vehicles and has a mustache or ramp, and the second goal is in Brod-Posavina County in the town of Slavonski Brod, so to have a university. These are two basic goals for Slavonski Brod and I entered the Croatian Parliament with it. A hundred times, he knows Mr. President here, Leko, when there was a talk about the university network, I mentioned when it was also about Koprivnica, so when it comes to our Slavonski Brod, when it will be in the network.... Here we talk about money, someone who contests law, how it will be financed, so how many studies it will be, how much it will be a study of undergraduate, graduate and postgraduate, and remember all of you who know the good history, how many studies did it have when it started? Universitas studiorum zagrebiensis as it was then referred to in Latin as, how many, three studies say Mlakar and a university. So the university, everything from something, each time starts with the first step, so the University of Slavonski Brod will go somewhere with the first step. Why here to create tensions about it, just because this law is proposed in a truly final, final period in pre-election time. So let him propose it whenever he wants. It could've been the first day of some new mandate some government also suggested, I'll be in and I'll always be in. And as I was about to say at first, on that saying, I see Rome and I die, so I say. Whether in the next term a representative or not, thank God that the goal of many Brodjans and the wish of many Brodjans has been achieved. I don't mind, of course. To talk about financial problems, and here it says, it is explained that 2 million and 200 thousand kuna is foreseen in 2015 and two and in '16. So two in '17, it says there's such an item in the budget, and it can speak against it however anyone wants from their position, from their party-stricken positions and thinking, etc. Here you can talk about the pre-election so one gift of Danish people who wear gifts here and Slavonia, but what's good for a Slavonian man, for a Slavonic student and a student, I will accept, regardless of any party illusions and club HDSSB will be for that of course. When we talk about this alone let's do relatively short material, I remember Professor Majdandzic and his... so university professors and teach at the Faculty of Engineering and their conversations with me 7-8 years ago when they potentiated and when no Slavonski Brod could break through. In the County Assembly of Brod-Posavina where HDZ was in power was a debate on the exhibition of the University of Slavonski Brod where the Assembly of Brod-Posaviska, the assembly was offered 50,000 kuna for the elaborate. At that time, the HDSSB club in the county assembly proposed an additional 200 000 kuna to force the ruling majority with our hands to vote the budget. They've granted us 100,000 kuna. Therefore, it is strange to hear here from HDZ circles, so at the state level in the Assembly, at the highest representative body, I would say opposing votes, while the Assembly in Brod-Posavina County, where HDZ has most of them are for this university. So make arrangements for you in HDZ, you down in Slavonski Brod and you here in the Croatian Parliament. Are you for the university or not? I am. And the money for the elaborate was secured right in the county assembly, so the county assembly's decision and the HDSSB amendment. When we talk about that core that creates some kind of university, so do you know how the hospital even develops, how it gets in from the home of health to the hospital? Which is the way, I'm a medic, so I'm just going to give you one analog example. It's so that the hospital becomes so that it has to have four primary wards, which are surgery, internal, paediatric and gynaecology with a maternity home. Only then can any home of health be asked by the ministry to obtain hospital status. Upgrade is psychiatry, neurology, dermatology, physical medicine, occult, otorina, etc. So here's the same analogy. We have a core, and we have quite a number to say to scientists and people who have scientific titles in Slavonski Brod, and already there are these pre-graduate studies and a university from that core that exists, and by upgrade as it says here by establishing and new graduate studies in Slavonski Brod, the university will live. I'm talking about an analogy in medicine, or in health care and in school, or high school. About the financial results of that university you don't have I would say I won't say a clue, but you can't imagine how much this university can attract students from the Bosnian Posavina who would study and pay for that study in Slavonski Brod. How much more profitable this university can be than many other universities. This is where you point closer to the county, which borders with Brod-Posavina. So, Sisak-Moslavina we know that Novska has always been Slavonia and gravitated to Slavonia and belongs to Sisak-Moslavina County. Villages around Novska and pardon Jasenovac actually belong to Slavonia. Slavonia is from Lipovljan, not the Okucan. Furthermore, in Osijek-Baranja County you have the Strizivojna which is twice, the municipality of Strizivojna further Osijek than Slavonski Brod. Novi Perkovci, Piskorevci, Đakovo in Osijek-Baranja County, near Požeko-Slavon County where each point has 30 km to Slavonski Brod not to speak. About Vukovar-Srijem County where Babina Greda belonged before World War II, but she went to Vukovar-Srijem for some reason I won't talk about it now. That's not my goal in politics here. Babina Gredi, Šitaru, Gradište, Zupanja, which is from Osijek beyond Slavonski Brod. The mayor's still in Osijek, he's 100 km away, the boat's 50, 60. Therefore, when the need for such a broad area and the possibility of studying from another country is explained, to say from abroad, then it is quite clear that this university can also live, can be born and can work well in future times. With this core exposed here to not telling you, so what already exists in Slavonski Brod pre-graduate studies of biliary, then management, then pre-graduate studies of manufacturing engineering, then excellent university, pre-graduate studies of early and pre-school education and education, integrated pre-graduate and university teaching studies and pre-graduate engineering studies. There are 15 doctors of science from 1100 employees at the Slavonski-ship hospital, and the number of magistrates that I don't even speak to, the master of science. So there's also a possibility in this direction, so medically, now that we're not talking about who would go there, that it would develop in Slavonski Brod. So there are possibilities, there are potentials in Slavonski Brod. Slavonski Brod is the second largest city in Slavonia. It currently has 60,65000 inhabitants, the sixth largest city in the Republic of Croatia. And yet when you look at the other side of the study are when we talk about a large network of studies, university studies in Croatia, so look also Mr. Sailar, the minister knows and you all know together that there is a university in Pula, that there is a university in Rijeka that is as far away as? 50 km, I don't know how many. If there is a university in Zadar, one of the most important I must say to the universities in Croatia, that there is a university in Split and that there is a university in Dubrovnik. Now, you look at this schedule, which is where it is from politics, how moves have been drawn, and if some of them have been pulled along the political path, so if Slavonski Brod has been pulled along the same path so let him, don't make it impossible for us, and don't let us at least there I would say the joy I feel when I represent here and this speech in the Croatian Parliament don't interfere with it. I know it's going to be a replica, but I'd be happy to respond to every replica. The HDSSB club will be heart and soul to say about this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120246	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have replicas. That's right. Dear Representative Happy Flego, Iron Happy Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120247	Comrade Grubisic, the path of your associations is passive. However, I have a subjective problem with him, I am unable to track him. So it's probably part of what you wanted to say, and I haven't really been able to understand that much more than the least time devoted to the question of the university. According to the university, the issue is local prestige, and it is quite understandable that you as a regional party insist in the national parliament on particular interests. It's up to the rest of us to look at the national interest. If there is a real need for the establishment of the University of Slavonski Brod, it is done in a completely different way. This document or proposal for this law is fundamentally defective. He has no elaborates, he is opposed to the strategy adopted by this Parliament, the Science Strategy, higher education and technology. He is opposed to a network of higher universities proposed by the National Council for Higher Education and adopted by this Assembly. We may wish to correct those decisions of the Parliament, but we must do so in a serious way. And besides, the bill of law has a very serious legal deficit, which I'm going to talk about, which was all made impossible or actually not done in some normal procedure. And finally, there's another very serious question. Will we stick to the documents that we brought with full consciousness and responsibility?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120248	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120249	My colleague Flego, therefore, this procedural difficulty and the tension you're talking about may take another 100 years for you and for your determination to do something in this country. That administrative grumble, that I would say the inertness that exists here, the indecision that exists not only in this higher education, etc. It's completely visible. I would also congratulate Mr. Minister for proposing this law in the Croatian Parliament, and he is, therefore, the Croatian Parliament and all members of the Croatian Parliament, MPs will decide on it. Now to speak when the law on the table is that the National Council did not bring it, so that Croatia is actually making progress. One body will decide the other body and the third body and then the county congregation and the town of Brod, so I don't know what. That's terrible! That's why we don't have an investment, I'm talking about economic investments. So that's how the hand of the disabled and the matter of this law. Well, the procedure would take a while, and if the National High School Council decided to approve this? Never, be honest and admit it, never. So I say thank you to Mr. Minister for putting this law on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120250	Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's my colleague Grubisic. I'll give you, you know, what I'm about to say. I'll give you a chance to extend this political campaign by two more minutes by answering my line. Namely, you used speaking on behalf of the club and it's perfectly understandable as the Brodjan that you will absolutely support the adoption of this law. What I am replicating is the fact that in your speech you also called my HDZ party saying about the work of the County Assembly of Brod-Posavina County and how the HDZ members voted in the assembly. So you're ordering us to make a deal. Well, I'm telling you, there are 200,000 members, and we don't all think the same thing. Perhaps the principle of the same opinion is represented in your party, and we can think of the same thing differently. And we're not to say so positioned that we all have to defend the same views. And our discussion goes to that end that regardless of the pre-election time and the fact that something is brought ad hoc in two days is not a good intention to set up the University of Slavonski Brod but rather a pre-election stunt of the ruling coalition. As the bill is also the subject of the ruling coalition, then you speak more to them and less to us. Because we can express our opinion that you don't have to agree with, but it's the subject of a law that we didn't propose. Just because our county assembly doesn't mean that all MPs have to think, I believe you'll hear that there are those of us who think differently but you just have to live with it. It's a principle that applies to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120252	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120253	Thank you very much. What you're actually trying to say, Mr. Mlakar, is not clear to me. You took everything from beginning to end in your replica. So you're standing on the weight of your president who said you're trucks, right, and we're bikes. It's that old thesis he's repeating. But it will turn out to be a little bit different, and there will be a cabriolet of the cupe, which will prove to be faster than the truck and faster and better, right? About what I was saying, of course, that I said that during your time too, so HDZ's government, which was double, so Sanader and Kosor, suggested, we prayed here from the constituency booths to be included in the network of course legal way through the National Council for Higher Education to join Slavonski Brod in the university network. Here are 25 years from a free, independent, independent Croatian state to no one has succeeded, no one has seriously looked at or considered it. I don't know how the other MPs don't even think about it, but from the discussion and replica Mr. Tudjman gave to Mr. Sailor, and here he comes from the board of higher education that I read in the media, I've seen, so if you think those representatives of HDZ are credible who we know and I've heard they've come forward, then it seems to me that you're in some way, here I am, if I may say, maybe there are some horns in the bag, too, but I'd be glad if you support this bill. No matter what election campaign you spend it on Slavonia. In Vukovar, you had the signing of this agreement and you told Slavonia in the first place. Well, come on, now show up on Friday when there's a vote. Make sure Slavonia comes first, Godspeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120254	Dear Representative Miroslav Tudjman has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120255	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, you probably didn't hear the beginning of my replica because I said there are countries that form universities for every 250,000 people. Your argument that Slavonski Brod should also have a university stands since practically in Croatia every 200 kilometers we have a university. However, this is about another argument and another logic and that this university should be set on a sound basis by scientific criteria, and you simply do not now have those assumptions. It was therefore necessary to move in another way to get science and education out of the social budget a lot more resources, so that the university can start to function normally. You look at what's been going on for the last few years. Our universities from Zagreb are increasingly falling on the list of these ranking universities in both Europe and the world. So do you want us to create another university that will be compared to these universities, because it can't be better at beginning than they are at worse. So this is about the quality of the university, about what needs to be provided, what needs to be given. It takes a few steps to think ahead and I have no objection that Slavonski Brod, i.e. Slavonia, has another university, but that this university is quality and that it can live on sound grounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120256	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120257	Thank you, Mr. Agent Tudjman, for your explanation. Maybe I didn't hear your first piece of the replica. But it's interesting how he cares about the quality of the university, so he shows up right in this debate. So, if the concern about the quality of the lecture and all that, the activities at the university appeared in the debate right now, and how many discussions have we had so far about universities that exist? I've never said it like that. We've never talked so hard about quality. I think you are, here you have just taken my word for it, you are, but the great majority in the Croatian Parliament is silent about it. And finally you know how the University of Josipo Juraj Strosmayer was created in Osijek, a professor, my professor Vaso Nikolic who came from anatomy to Osijek from Zagreb and was once a traveling professor, and later became head of the Department in Osijek and now here is Osijek one, I would say, and even by the quality of one good, mainly MEFOS, the Faculty of Medicine in Osijek. I have the University of Mostar on which also fly by plane professors from Zagreb and you yourself. And in Slavonski Brod you won't have to fly by plane, you'll be able to come by bus for 70 kuna or some other means, four hours after Slavonia, in Slavonia, has been made a railroad, it would be good that for an hour and a half as it came before. I want you to come to Slavonski Brod as an eminent expert and that we also have a study where you will also get your place and opportunity and lectures and evaluations of our students and all those who will be enrolled in Slavonski Brod, and the assessment is according to this law that there may also be 5,000 students in the future in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120258	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120259	Thank you very much. Comrade Grubisic, in one indirect way you have called all those who think differently. And you mentioned that I was against the Committee on Science and Higher Education. I'm not against the University of Slavonski Brod, but I'm against procedures and disability laws. There is no respect for the procedure here and this law is disabled because there are many shortcomings, it is not in accordance with other laws, it seems to me neither to the Constitution. The criteria for the establishment of the university are lacking, the need for the university in Croatia is lacking, the need for a university is lacking. That's why I reacted so much when it comes to the University of the North, even when it comes to the University of Slavonski Brod. But of course if now someone who lives in Krapina to say that it is against the establishment of the University of Krapina, someone who lives in Velika Gorica of course would say so I can't wait to have a university, all for that if there is a strategy. This is a very important decision and it must fit into the strategy. According to this law, this procedure does not fit the Higher Education Strategy, but if there is a need, if there is an embossed justification, then I am in favour. Here says the law of Article 14. "In 90 days from the entry into force of this law the Senate of the University of Osijek will make a decision, the University of Joseph will make a decision, the University of Josip will decide how the law can prescribe autonomous decisions." So you know that he can't prescribe. And what if the Senate doesn't make a decision? Prior to this entry into force or before the proposal, all of these institutions had to be subject to prior consent. That's what I'm talking about disrespecting the procedure. And that's why I can't support a decision this hasty without any elaborates. It's brought in in two days by the ambulance, and he didn't even have two readings. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120260	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120261	Thank you very much. Dear Marić, we very often agree in opinions and thoughts on many topics and beyond higher education. Now you've explained your position on the board, where I say in the media, since I was sick and still, you read that you were against it. It wasn't voted on at the time, so there was a vote on the proposal for a law establishing a university. You're due to procedural mistakes, and I told Mr. Flegi what it's done, because of the procedure, we should wait another 100 years, any university, let alone in Slavonski Brod. So the procedure of which you speak to the Senate in Osijek, then the National Council, then don't give it up, then the inclusion in the strategy. So we have a strategy for industrial development in the Republic of Croatia, right, the Minister of Economy talked about this strategy here in five minutes and left the assembly after five minutes. So as the strategy has been adopted and there are 700 pages of the Industrial Development Strategy, so is the implementation. As he referred in five minutes, it's actually our industry today in the Republic of Croatia. I think this decision will go much better than the industry in Croatia and the strategy created by the current economy minister and Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Vrdoljak. The Elaborate you're talking about, in 2011 to 2013, the County of Brod-Posavina made a decision and should have made an elaborate, paid for it, etc., I said that the HDSSB club in the county assembly had secured, and with its amendment to speed up the process and the construction of the elaborates of 100 thousand kunas. The county is in which the HDZ majority is clear and has a majority in the county assembly has voted another 50,000 kuna regularly and we still 100, 150, so I don't understand that it's not exactly done as you say, and we voted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120262	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Šimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120263	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We speak on behalf of the HDZ Club as you have heard, and that the matter would be worse or better and I am like my colleague Boro Grubisic from Slavonski Brod. I'd like to remind you of what Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County had in history from higher school institutions. Maybe a lot of people know that information. The tradition and history of higher education in Slavonski Brod dates back to the 1960s. There she existed, worked successfully at Higher Commercial School, Pedagogical Academy, Transport Studies and Higher School of Engineering, which grew up in '75 at the Faculty of Engineering in Slavonski Brod, which today successfully works and educates graduate engineers of engineering, master and doctor of science who has a European level, and not only on Croatian one great reputation. Today with the Faculty of Engineering, which I said in Slavonski Brod, works at the Faculty of Education and Education, it is the Faculty of Education, the course of class teaching history direction, the class course of English as well as the course of preschool education. I must stress here that we also have a student centre which is not said, a new student centre, a new dormitory with 142 beds, with two apartments for traveling teachers with a corresponding restaurant, kitchen and all the necessary facilities. 28.9.6. colleagues and colleagues of the then leadership of the county and the city, but also in maximum cooperation with the University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek, the rector of Kralik, its proctors and associates, we approach the establishment of the Velect in Slavonski Brod and choose those studies that are not conducted at the University of Osijek or at the University of Požega and of course Prof. Dr. Barkovic, perhaps some of the academic community know him, works on an elaborate and works on a Management Study that received a positive review from the national council and 28.9. The university of Slavonski Brod begins with its work with three programming experts, I must highlight the professional study, which is Management, it is Manufacturing Engineering and it is bilinogacy for that reason whether this Biliary Study at the Faculty of Agriculture in Osijek was not there. As far as these two studies are concerned, and these three are five, we had in preparation and permits for electrical engineering, construction and program for more nurses. That's for me because I was part of the team, I was a prerequisite that in five to eight years Slavonski Brod would become a university town with these licenses for these three studies. So that would be a total of eight, possibly nine studies. And then in the budget of Brod-Posavina County and in the city budget, we started preparing for what should happen and what should happen now these days, possibly on Friday at the vote, and this was paid for schooling, education of master's staff and doctors of science who would be potential lecturers at the Faculty of Engineering, the Faculty of Teachers and here at the university that should become a university in perspective. My colleagues and colleagues, I greatly respect the position of my colleagues Flege, colleagues of Kregar, colleagues of Tudjman because they are people who have great experience working at universities in the academic community, but we speak in Brod Posavia County on behalf of the club, but I have to tell me this in Brdsko Posavina County because I come from Slavonski Brod we put this city and county in front of us and we don't want to break anything over our knees. I know there's a flaw in this proposal, that I haven't seen the elaborate of justification, I haven't seen that document, but I've been informed that this document exists. Furthermore, this is all that will be done and the study that will be conducted at the future university I wanted to see something new, something new to offer, some new study, a study that is not conducted at the neighboring University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek so as not to duplicate. And it is true that these three counties and the Bosnian resident of the Bosnian Posavina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, will be filled in and educated here in these offered occupations. Another remark that I would point out had to come, by nature things had to come up with more meetings and agreements between the ministry, Senates of the University of Osijek, headed by Turkalj, the founding board and Dean of the Faculty of Engineering and the Faculty of Teachers. Because these two components of the Faculty of Osijek go to the future university of Slavonski Brod. A deal had to be made here, not dear colleagues and colleagues to be in charge of the Senate to retroactively make one, making a 30-day deadline to make a decision on the exit of the Faculty of Engineering of its member and Mastership. And another remark I noticed in the Faculty of Teachers was, in Slavonski Brod, a dislocated study of the Faculty of Osijek. In the meantime, this institution has to be left alone and the sea, I would say on the market to offer something new and not only classes and history studies, class classes and English, but it must offer something new because there is too much in the employment offices in both Osijek and Đakov and Slavonski Brod, and there is a wider class course. But let it be done on the walk and make arrangements for the new academic year. There's something else I'm worried about. Normally, classes, exercises and everything else that belongs will be implemented in existing facilities and resources that are in the Ministry of Science on the item provided for the university and in Osijek will normally go on, if we make such a decision the day after tomorrow, and I hope so. But I think that the new budget of the Republic of Croatia should also plan for, when there will be enlargement and we put it in our programmes, the land for building additional capacity is provided, we called it campus in Slavonski Brod in Andrija Hebrang's settlement. And there's something else I'd like to say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club and personally. It says here in the materials that the minister in charge will appoint a rector if we adopt all this within 30 days I mean 30 days who will have an extremely busy time. I would say that this rector is not from politics, that rector is going to be from science, this rector is going to have a lot of work, this rector has to work with everyone in, mainly in the making of documentation and everything else that has one, which should have one university. I would also say in the end that it is not a project of either my HDZ or the SDP that has proposed it here today, that it is a project of all of us in Brod-Posavina County, a project and surrounding places of Brod-Posavina County of all those who will exist, which will engraving our university. And I didn't say at first to deny everything and my colleague Grubisic, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the establishment of a university in Slavonski Brod. So if that's the way it's gonna be on Friday and it's gonna be, I wish you a new university a long life and a successful work. And another thing, dear friends, I don't want anything unrealistic to come out of me, but let's be a little real, let's just say real, it's not a rough word. Pula has its own university, we're back from Pula, we're going through Učka, here we are at Rijeka University. We are going a little further south here in Zadar, even south of Split, and we are going all the way south to Croatia, Dubrovnik. Are you counting what that is? Zagreb, the capital is the strongest, largest university in Croatia. Osijek, our home university, the North, so he deserved to have that region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120264	Thank you too, dear colleague Djurdjevic. We have three replicas. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120265	Thank you very much. My colleague Đurđević is very nice... In the end, you said the HDZ Club would support this proposal, so I'm glad to hear it, I'm really glad to hear it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you talked about that a good part of the students will also be from Bosnia and Herzegovina, since BiH is not on a very thorny and distant path to joining the European Union, and not BiH itself, but also some other countries from the environment, I am convinced that those who want to get a degree in the university in the European Union, and Croatia is already a member of the thank God, that it will find a very Slavonian Ship that is therefore its location, its one and strategic position, its equal distance 200 km from Zagreb, 200 from Sarajevo and 200 from Belgrade, to attract many students from so-called neighbouring countries. Okay, language's a little different, etc., but they'll be able to study in Slavonski Brod. What I would not be afraid of, someone expressed concern about the decision of the Senate of the University of Osijek, so I would then tell those members of the Senate to remember that the Osijek University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer compared to the University of Zagreb whose for a time not to say so freely were branches separated and became a university in Osijek. Let the same principles, same principles of application when separateing the University of Slavonski Brod from the University of Osijek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120266	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120267	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Grubisic, it may not be good for us as Brodjans and friends, so to speak, we are replicating each other, responding to replicas, but here we are. I want to tell you a colleague that I didn't say this at the pay phone today, that today in Banja Luka from Brod-Posavina County he studied 47 students at various universities. 47 and they're all paying for it. And Osijek as a parent still needs our university to have maximum cooperation with neighbouring universities, not only because we need teachers, lecturers for those staffs that the ship's-posavia personnel cannot cover but also of course new projects should be implemented together with the vice-presidents, the deans and the Senate of the University of Osijek, the maximum co-operation of the Senate and the leadership of this new university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120268	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Iron Happy Flego, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120269	Dear Djurdjevic, thank you for fully open and fairly listing the shortcomings of this legislative proposal and, in fact, you are on a kind of balance of doubt whether or not you are. From those premises you made to me, it seems to me that it would be much better and healthier for all of us to carry out those advances that you have now listed as deficitary and then to approach the final decision. Both colleagues Marić and others are not principled and apriori v University of Slavonski Brod, but we are against making decisions for which there are no arguments, so there are no elaborates, or at least we have not seen it and against a decision that is contrary to the procedures that we ourselves have prescribed. That's what this is about, and it's not such an emergency that the whole thing couldn't be made or decided in 3-4 months. And finally there's another element, it seems to me that it's very bad for everyone, for politics and for society and for the academic community if political interests rape sensitive academic affairs, and that's how it is in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120270	Replica response, respected representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120271	Thank you. My esteemed colleague Flego, when we founded the Veleučište in Slavonski Brod, I said with these three professional studies we then set ourselves a deadline, I said, 5 to 8, 10 years to create humane, spatial and any other conditions that, in that period of years, two, three, Slavonski Brod would enter the network of Croatian universities and work parallelly on human resources, what needs a university. That's where we got rid of I told the bag and the city and the county, we didn't regret the funds, and we would welcome what is now proposed, but for a variety of reasons it didn't happen. But my shortest answer would now be to you and other colleagues and those who watch and listen to the session of the Croatian Parliament, no more waiting. Certain things must be resolved in walking, no more time. If that doesn't happen now, my colleagues and colleagues, I don't think it's going to happen in the future that Slavonski Brod has a university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120272	Thank you too, dear colleague Djurdjevic. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120273	Thank you very much. Comrade Djurdjevic, you listed everything in the order of the university and then you said, "Isn't it worth the Slavonski Brod then?" If we follow that sequence, he deserves it. According to the criteria, perhaps even before others, but the establishment of a university in Croatia has long dropped the criteria, there are no criteria at all. The question is which is the next request, which city is next. There are even bigger ones if we are going to live by the number of inhabitants, there are bigger cities than Slavonski Brod, and if we are going to have more distances. We must take care of compliance with the strategy, but not as it says in this law is a harmonised law with the management strategy of the human potential of the Ship-Posavina County. It would be more important to say that it is in line with the strategy of higher education of the Republic of Croatia and should be supported accordingly. There's no insurance here either. It just says in this bill how secure they are, but how much money they need is missing. If these means of security correspond to the necessary means, there is nowhere to be found. What if he doesn't have enough funds? And imagine there's no 4% for teachers anymore, and you're from that profession. How is it possible that for the most important profession that our children are raising the state budget there is no 4% more? If he hadn't been able to secure that, I'd be thinking about some other alternatives. And I think it's very important, and this is important to align, to respect the procedure, and I'm afraid that a maneuver has been left behind and I'm afraid, so I'm restrained that the citizens of Slavonski Brod and what was left behind within 90 days will not be respected. And here's what we'll be waiting for, so we'll see, that's what I'm afraid of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120274	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn in the Croatian Parliament and counterpart Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120275	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. It may have been a nice and pleasant honor for me at the end of my term to speak on behalf of the club on the establishment of this second Slavonic university. I'm joining my colleagues from Slavonia, here's Boro gone, and my colleague Djurdjevic is here. I come from a town halfway between the current centre of the University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer Osijek and a future centre in Brod. I had the honour of being an employee of this University of Osijek, and of working on dislocated studies in Brod and Vukovar, the Faculty of Teachers. I'd fix that fellow Djurdjevic, but it's just not a teacher's college anymore. It's now the Faculty of Education and Educational Sciences. I would like to emphasise the following that in this term, in the mandate of this government, the separation for science has increased from 0.75% to 0.86% of GDP. The student standard has also been improved, free study has been provided for all successful and regular students, and the scientific money from the burning problem has become a Croatian university development asset. I also see this bill of law only as a continuation of this government's work in favour of science. It should be pointed out once again, although colleagues have said that this law establishes the University of Brod as a public institution and that it is created by the merger of the College of Engineering in Brod, the University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer, a dislocated study at the Bord Faculty of Education and Educational Sciences in Osijek and the student centre at Slavonski Brod of Josip Jurj Strossmayer University in Osijek. The merger of the aforementioned institutions creates assumptions in accordance with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which prescribes that the University is an institution established and conducted by university studies in at least two scientific and/or artistic fields in a large number of fields, as well as interdisciplinary studies as well as an autonomous integrated process directly or through its universities, art academias and departments established in accordance with the law. The university and its higher universities can conduct professional studies in accordance with the law. Viewed through the University network in the Republic of Croatia there is a favourable geostrategic position that would have led the University of Brod in addition to attracting students from Brod-Posavina and neighbouring counties in the Republic of Croatia to have the potential to attract students from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. First of all, this applies to the University of Banja Luka. In fact, due to the lack of offers of study programmes, a large number of students from Brod-Posavina County and neighbouring counties continue to study outside their county, which potentially reduces the number of people who finish higher education, as a large number of students are unable to study in other environments that do not gravitate. I will remind you that this is especially true for Slavonia, which is the poorest part of Croatia. The establishment of the University of Slavonski Brod would create a platform for the launch of new university programmes and allow for the adjustment of study programmes to the needs of regional population study. In this way, assumptions would be created for the retention and increase of students in Slavonski Brod and their permanent stay, which is a prerequisite for the launch of the regional economy. Future components have an educational and research potential, but also contributes to the economic and social needs of local communities and regions where the united academic community should play an important role in the development of Brod-Posavina County and the town of Slavonsko Brod and the region. The vision of the University of Slavonski Brod is to ensure the availability of suitable, market-oriented study programmes and orientations to its students, and to promote the comprehensive development of students through social skills support and development programmes, and to encourage participation in scientific and research projects and projects with industry and international cooperation. To its teachers and employees, the University will seek to provide the necessary infrastructure conditions and set appropriate standards of quality of work and development in academic and scientific research, while contributing to their international mobility and visibility of their experts. The university will seek in all segments its activities with strong cooperation with and to benefit the local economic community, and through the activities of its students, the researcher teachers will contribute to the social inclusion and well-being of the local community. It will continuously contribute through its organisation activities of the reputation and importance of the university, i.e. its local, national, regional and international visibility, attractiveness as well as its own long-term sustainability and business stability. Finally, I will point out only two other facts that are already here to one extent and highlighted. First, Slavonski Brod is an industrial, cultural, administrative, judicial and financial centre of Brod-Posavina County and by the size and significance of the second city in Slavonia. It is the sixth largest in the Republic of Croatia after Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek and Zadar. Slavonia is a region with almost a million inhabitants. If we promote the schedule of existing universities in the Republic of Croatia, we will easily see injustice towards Slavonia. By proposing this law, we correct this injustice. I also think it is important to remind that Slavonski Brod hit a difficult fate during the Homeland War when it suffered a terrible destruction from neighbouring BiH. Slavonski Brod was very important to the Serbian aggressor because of its geopolitical position. According to some experts, the ship was the second worst injured city since Vukovar in the Homeland War. On average, only in the Ship as a result of large-serb aggression, 5 people died. A total of 29 children were killed in the attacks. Since May of '92. '95. 969 children were injured, 90 of them disabled. We also owe this law something to bring back to the children of Brod and that region as a whole. The SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120276	Thank you too, colleague Tomic. We have two replicas, a respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120277	Thank you, Mr. President. You said your colleague Tomic had raised 0.75 to 0.80 and some publishing for science, that she had resolved the question of scientific recruits. However, I will remind you at the beginning of this government's mandate that I have asked what will happen to 2.5 thousand scientific recruits and then it is said that it is a guilty policy and that they are jeopardising the financial system of the Republic of Croatia. Since then, a ban on promoting or accepting scientific recruits has been imposed and will be resolved from year to year. Scientific productivity when we only look at quantitative production indicators scientific from year to year declines. I would also like what you said and I support this thesis that science should support the development of Brod County, that is, the whole of Slavonia. However, this Assembly is innocent of any scientific support in making any scientific decisions. So let's start to talk real about science, about the role of science, about funding science because what is funded we are at the bottom of Europe and there is no basis for further development without scientific support.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120278	Replica's reply, distinguished representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120279	First of all, I can agree with you that we can talk a lot more about science and that we need to talk a lot and change a lot. But I must also remind you that a reform of the funding of scientific activities has been made through multi-annual programming contracts and the Croatian Science Foundation, that the first national scientific centres for excellence and successful withdrawal of funds from EU funds have been established. And we also can't dispute the fact that the isolation still grew from 0.75 to 0.86%. I will also remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made it possible by its decision to keep scientific recruiting contracts in the system and to employ young scientists through a public tender. It is estimated to bring 1200 to 1600 different positions from assistants, post-doctorates to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120280	Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120281	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. My colleague Tomic, you're cheating on the public of parties these days, he's great at it, you're telling lies. Because you think we're as stupid as Pup's told me we're half-retarded. You're on that line. You raised from 0.85 to 0.86, the cat on the tail, but GDP dropped 4.5 percent over the four years. So there's been a cut in salary in absolute terms. If it had dropped 20%, how much would it have been for the pay cut? Who are you kidding? What are you talking about? But that's not the main theme you said was to correct the injustice. There's no such thing as a Slavonian merchant ship because there's no such thing as a university. I'm gonna start it, now. You know what injustice is, to be clear? You know what injustice is? As the Secretary of the Navy sits here, I was ashamed to listen to him on TV last night. Croatian teachers, it's the biggest injustice, the biggest shame and he's performing, Mr. Minister on TV last night. Shame on you! On Friday, teachers are not supposed to strike, but they need to get up. No government has celebrated on this, but none have humiliated teachers as the party now humiliates. As drunks, you throw 10 billion, 5 billion and 200 million all over the place. And it all costs a teacher 200 million kuna. It's like a toothpick to you how much you've thrown these days. And you don't get it. We here, it is a shame that we are discussing the establishment of the University of Slavonski Brod, it can wait a month, but this topic which is with refugees topic No. 1 teachers humiliated because they have no authority in the class, no mechanisms to defend themselves against persecution, from mobbing, and yet we humiliate them and tell them they're stupid, that they'll be given some of the next government. So how come Mr. Minister isn't ashamed of you yesterday saying you don't have 200 million kuna for that 4%?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120282	Thank you very much, thank you, colleague. Replica's reply, distinguished representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120283	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I can't comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120284	Thank you, too. We continue the debate individually for 10 minutes. Dear Representative Joseph Kregar, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120285	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There's a way to impose a debate here that doesn't match the case we're discussing. Here everything is raised as a question of love for an end, a desire to correct injustices, the number of victims is listed as what was wanted but not done and this is not a debate on the subject, and the topic is a university. The university isn't an empty term, it's not the result of our wishes. It is a community and institution that requires certain very strong criteria and rules. To get away from it, I think it would be necessary to do a little intellectual experiment. The words Slavonski Brod replace the word Karlovac, Krapina, Trogir, Metković and then let's discuss universities in these cities. It's quite justified here that we've made mistakes so far, but it's a debate that crosses the frameworks of this moment. It was said to a colleague of Shima that it was never but now is not the right time to pass such a law. Why two days before Parliament's possible disbandment in an accelerated procedure without proper debate, without insight into the elaborate, even those who advocate say the elaborate has not even been seen. Therefore, my opinion is that the proposal is unprepared, unsuitable for adoption and even for discussion. I'm going to illustrate that with a few points that come first. First, universities are created where there is not only will, but there is a humane basis, tradition, a desire for science. It is not enough to send people to the master's in Croatia. In order for the university to arise, it takes such a fit that can hold the level of the university, not the level of actually visiting the university. As one of the arguments is that we have two apartments for visiting teachers, so wait a minute, so that means it's not a university then, it's a hotel. Don't think I'm exaggerating because in order to form a university, they need personnel, they need programs, they need people who are above the level of beginners in that profession. It is not easy to achieve, but European criteria say so. On the contrary, even at established universities, we should seek to raise quality, but this inflation is expressed by the number but also the general quality is actually a distraction to us. For me, the strongest argument is the lack of this initiative in the strategy for the development of higher education of the Republic of Croatia. So why do we make one such decision if we don't have a strategic basis for it, I think in a war, one company or a small one goes into attack regardless of what strategy or plan is something completely different. The strategy was brought here for a very long time, hundreds of people cooperated and worked on it. The government proposed it, we adopted it, the debates were, they showed a lot of complexity from the problem, but there was no mention of establishing new universities as a strategic goal. We have another problem here that's being ignored here, which is respecting the procedure. The procedures in this case are foreseen by law, and you say we won't hesitate now as we hesitated for years, but doctors don't treat them by amputating the leg first and then sending a patient to search. And we can't make a decision before we determine what the consequences of that decision will be. We use the argument that students from other neighbouring countries will come to us, for what? To graduates, not for knowledge. As some of our people who even sat in these benches for diplomas went to neighbor Bosnia and Herzegovina, now we will open up such an opportunity for their people who will pay, will pay for the diploma but will not help develop Croatian knowledge or universities. It's called expenses, I'm sorry I can't believe it. That there's no cost of starting a university, so that's an empty phrase. These costs are enormous, they include sending 50 people to professional training outside the country, for example, they include attracting quality personnel, they include infrastructure that will not be funded by the Republic of Croatia but rather the EU hope. But with a start like this and the idea that we can't wait, but we have to right away, we're not gonna get that money. In the end, I would also like to say that this is how we set up, a problem that is dominated by the debate about our feelings for Slavonski Brod is not good. I remember Slavonski Brod as places, there I held some lectures and stands, in which there is intellectual curiosity, in which there is also a certain layer of people who are interested in various social matters and issues, but that does not mean that I want to or advocate to become a university. I agree with those who have raised this question to the question of our possible mistakes in the past but it is addressed in other ways. The regionalisation of Croatia would mean that the regions in Croatia are competent to finance and set up universities, but then it will not be desirable for everyone because it will determine our ambitions. I cannot accept this bill because it violates the elements, the procedure of making a decision on the establishment of a university where it is not at all in the case of whether the Senate of the University of Osijek has already made some decisions, if it is not about the separation of a university if it is not me that I do not know how we can influence or enter the autonomy of that university and isolate their constituents from the University of Osijek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120286	Thank you, too, dear colleague Kregar. We have three replicas. The first replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120287	Thank you very much. I listened carefully to your presentation and your speech, and at one point you said that the University of Slavonski Brod was not the result of our wishes. Whose wishes? You'll explain that to me in response to the replica. And our wishes regarding the Brod-Posavina County and the surrounding counties and inhabitants are long known, defined, even in the documents of Brod-Posavina County, the town of Slavonski Brod, which have made it possible and built by the university. Secondly, remember the birth pains of other universities in Croatia that are present, here to mention these five seas as I call them, the shortened seas, remember the birth pains of the establishment of the University of Pula and what was said then and what had been said and wonderful. Furthermore, you said that when doctors amputate their legs then they don't look after the search, but you see sometimes a saying by an American professor of surgery who says, "cut off sometimes means cure2, so it's not exactly what you say. Furthermore, when you talk about procedures and procedures, the elements of the procedure, so let's tell you how many more decades in Croatia would have to pass to make such a law or decision on it, starting with a strategy, starting with the Senate of Osijek, the National Council and a series of other procedures that last. Well, all governments have had time over the last 25 years to think about it and to carry out this procedure, governments and universities if you're talking about university autonomy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120288	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120289	I thank my colleague Grubisic for listening very carefully, which is why I find it a little incomprehensible that you did not understand when I was talking about whose will this is. As far as I'm concerned, I am here with the heart or will of neutrality, so I say replace Slavonski Brod with the word Karlovac, Metkovic or anything, any other city, not even similar size or larger at Slavonski Brod, not to enter those comparisons, but there is clear that there is not enough will to create anything. In this case, human and organisational conditions are needed, the scientific weight of those who carry and create a university. Here I agree with you in this other respect, which is to rationalise the existing network and question whether it is suitable for a state such as the Republic of Croatia. And as for what I don't understand about medicine, I'm sure there's only one thing, cutting off a healthy leg isn't good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120290	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120291	Thank you, Mr. President. This was the first discussion with arguments and with the facts that should be determined, let's say, by our determination whether we vote for that university or not. The previous discussions were patriotic, local patriotic with desires, will, heart, geostrategic position, victims of war that had nothing to do with the subject, nothing to do with the subject. In point 109 of our agenda, therefore, we have the last point, and this stands for one year, two, the Networks of Public Health Organizations in the Republic of Croatia, the Proposer of the National Council for Science. In the network and in the Science Development Strategy, then high education as an upgrade to science, we did not discuss it because we have neither will nor interest. This tsunami last started with the University of the North. I've had a lot of exposure against it, and it turns out I hate Varazdin, so I guess now it's gonna turn out like I hate Slavonia. It's not true, people, but starting a university isn't about the will and desire of a few politicians and a parliamentary representative. It is known what it is for pain and it is known what conditions must be met, and the conditions cannot be that there are three professional studies, three, four undergraduates, two graduates and one postgraduate professors who come to these apartments, so that's not how it is done. Why do we act by imposing our will on the real situation? It was done in another time. I thought we skipped that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120292	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120293	... which have been brought here. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] But one thing I'm saying is, we as a Parliament can't bypass the opinion of the National Council of Science. Well, it's the body that we've set up for these questions in it called those people who guarantee by their scientific integrity that they won't be biased, that they won't make decisions lightly, that they'll have a national interest before everyone else. Therefore, a level cannot be circumvention of one such body. We must have their opinion if we are to give what is called informed consent, to vote in accordance with the full knowledge of our vote's sequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120294	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ante Babic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120295	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Kregar, I suppose not on purpose and perhaps it is when you talk about the University of Zagreb you forget to talk about that Catholic University in Zagreb, so because of correctness you should mention them here today. Speaking of forming a university in Slavonski Brod, you said that decisions were made on a case-by-case basis, that this was taken without the elaborates, without analysis, without cost assessment and by emergency procedure, and you are right. And you were part of that majority who, in these four years of emergency procedure, brought more than 80% of these laws without those analyses, without evaluations, without the elaborates, and I'm glad you remembered that. And not only that, in the vast majority of the laws we passed in the Croatian Parliament, we actually experimented and experimented on our own people. Is this one of those experiments, too, two days before the Parliament's disbandment, I don't know. And I don't believe that without the role of those who need to say the most about it, it was an emergency procedure for academic communities to pass a law like this. And what you may have forgotten to say and you should not at this time know about the teacher's problem and teachers are actually a prerequisite, a social group that raises young people, a prerequisite for students, for assistants, for scientific recruits, and that at the moment when this government boasts about the primary surplus of 800 million kunas could not be found 400 million kunas, it is certainly not good and it is actually forgetting that equality before the law, or one of the principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia about which you are both a scientist and as a professor you should raise your voice and say what word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120296	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120297	I thank Mr. Babic. I will first express my solidarity and say that I will participate in the strike because I think it is justified, perhaps necessary, because it draws public attention to things that, in other times, not pre-election times, did not have much understanding of the government, or government. However, we cannot apply that argument to this issue that we have in the debate. Also, I did not unwittingly mention the Catholic University, perhaps thinking that it would distract me from the real question. The real question is which we should think about is the question of students studying. They're increasingly becoming a student mass that gets studies because there's nothing else. It becomes a question of social control, not a question of science. And maybe we both have the wrong Mr. Tudjman and Mlakar and I when we ask a question of scientific excellence, a standard that needs to be met. Because what this is about isn't the question. This isn't about starting a university, this is about starting schools where unemployed people will come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120298	Thank you very much. We continue the debate of individual representatives for 10 minutes. It's the honorary representative of the Iron Happy Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120299	My colleagues and colleagues, when I entered the second term of the Parliament, and at the beginning of the session, we took a sort of oath or obligation to preserve the legality and constitutionality, I took it seriously. When someone tells me that something is against the constitution, I get a little chilly and I get very uncomfortable in my soul until I solve the problem, so either I admit I was wrong or whoever brought me the message... Something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I see the problem with the University of Slavonski Brod as a problem of an illegal proposal and a counter-constitutional proposal, and then I havesubstantial questions and objections. The law on, therefore, this law suggests that the University of Slavonski Brod is formed by the unification of the university, the Faculty of Education and Educational Sciences, which is part of the University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek and the Faculty of Engineering, which is part of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek. In order for these two components of the two universities in Osijek, the Law on Scientific Research and Higher Education in Article 54(5) states the following: "Decisions on Status Change of Components within the University or on the exit of individual components and universities shall be taken by the Senate by a majority of two-thirds of the total number of votes.". The law in Article 14, i.e. the proposal for a law, provides for the Senate to make that decision within 3 months. Why didn't the Senate bring a preliminary opinion? Why doesn't the preliminary opinion wait until the Senate, so I think that's the question I've lost track of so far? The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 68, reads: "The autonomy of the university is guaranteed.". The university independently decides on its structure and operation in accordance with the law. What the law prescribed just now I read to you. But if we pass this bill, we will rape the autonomy of the university and violate constitutional provisions. It is therefore necessary to wait for the Senate of the University of Osijek to make an appropriate decision either positive or negative and then access what we have approached today. These are my very serious legal, constitutional and legal reserves. My colleagues and colleagues, are we going to pass legal laws? The law shall enter into force if the Senate of the University makes a decision. What if the Senate of the University doesn't make a decision, which if the Senate of the University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer says we won't partialize our university, we won't break it up and we won't make that decision. And now we're coming up with a substance problem. Every university, I know something about it, which was founded, every public university, and even the private ones that were founded in the establishment, had a fat lobby in their action. The university is primarily what university staffs are, which are university professors, everything remains secondary. At what should become a university in Slavonski Brod, two key institutions, and partly at the university are taught by professors of Josip Juraj Strossmayer University in Osijek. That's what my colleague Tomic told you recently. What if the Senate of the University doesn't make a decision so the university is established anyway, and the Senate of universities or college councils decide, you teachers who teach in Slavonski Brod will no longer teach in Slavonski Brod. Do we have any solution to that elaborate we haven't even seen, that we don't know if exists, we don't know what it looks like. Secondly, in substance, you are talking about that the University of Slavonski Brod will develop significantly internationally, or that it will attract students and students from BiH. Well, that's what he's doing now, and he's doing it now, and it's quite likely that especially for the first years of BiH students and students, I don't know which other countries, he'd rather study at the famous and established University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer and have their diploma than at the newly founded university. And finally, I have already spoken in some replicas, a proposal now and a colleague of Kregar a little earlier, the proposal to set up a university in Slavonski Brod is the opposite, so 10 months ago the strategy for education, education, science and technology of the Republic of Croatia was adopted, the opposite recommendation is to rationalise the network of higher institutions and to specialize. The opposite is the network of higher education institutions proposed by the National Council for Higher Education. And finally, formally but substanceically, no university's elaborate came into debate without the opinion of the National Council as well as the Law on Scientific and Research Activities and Higher Education. My colleague Grubisic, these are all things that have been dealt with in one month, all of them, and at least it's opportunistic that you object to me that I am undecided in solving the problem and also morally deep. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, you realize that I will not vote for that law, not because I am against the university but because I am against all those procedural reasons. For God's sakes, what is democracy but a procedure that works according to certain principles. What if we step on a procedure? What if we don't follow those standards and laws that we've prescribed ourselves, where did we come from? And finally one, I can't resist my urge not to give a moral political lesson at the end. Tomorrow is my last day of Parliament's term of office, after which I am leaving for a deserved pension to of course enjoy the fruits of past work, and I will most likely live in this country shorter than many of you. So watch what you do from the state, at every step of the way, in every decision, in every law, so that you and your children will be better off. If you break the regulations that you have brought yourself, if you give up on what you have decided, try to think about where it will lead you and try to think about your political responsibility and your personal conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120300	Thank you very much, Iron Happy Flegie. We've reported five replicas. The first replica, Honored Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120301	Thank you very much. Comrade Flego, you are very concerned about the implementation of the legal and constitutional provisions in this country, and obviously you have the knowledge that you yourself have said, that this legislative proposal is not in accordance with the law, it is not in accordance with the Constitution, it is not in line with the network of institutions in higher education, there is no elaborate decision by the Senate in Osijek, the University of Osijek. In fact, when I listen to this first part of your debate, then I may be convinced or it seems to me that if this Law on the establishment of a university in Slavonski Brod were adopted so that if someone, perhaps you too, since you have so clearly proved to be so illegal and unconstitutional, you would file an action, submitted to the Constitutional Court that this legal proposal would fall. Definitely. Whether it means it or maybe it exposes and you explain it to us in advance and you want to say that in fact this legislative proposal to the Kukuriku coalition is doomed, so here's why it was pushed into the process and that the Slavonski Brod will remain empty on this issue, and that the entire Kukuriku coalition knows in advance, in fact, and of course from your words it would be concluded. And if you say it's enough for a month to agree on all this, then the Senate decision and the elaborate that seems to me to be at the end or it's already over, as far as I'm informed and the National Council to change the strategy. So why wasn't it over by now? [[Intruder President: Thank you, dear colleague Grubisic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120302	Replication response, Honorable Agent Iron Happy Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120303	My colleague Grubisic, regardless of my conviction, will not press charges to the Constitutional Court, but there is one institution that allegedly has already written the complaint. That institution is quite high in academic life, and I'm not going to mention it now. According to my record, off-the-book information, they're the opposite of yours as to the mood of the Senate of the University of Osijek. And finally, look, I said at the beginning and I repeat, I'm not in, I'm not against the university. But I'd prefer it if we set up a university based on proper procedures and proper rules. And as you could hear from the mouth of a colleague of Tomic who spoke on behalf of the club, you could conclude that the law is not condemned to failure, and what kind of consensus will be his about it each of us has an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120304	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120305	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm joining my colleague Flegie, and tomorrow's also my last day of work, and I don't have any ambition to say anything about it. But I can't get past this situation. Professor Flego took a good look at the fact that the procedure was broken. She's definitely broken. We all know what the procedure should look like, and the procedure is not a democracy decoration, the procedure is democracy. She's the essence of democracy. A procedure that applies equally to everyone. So, if today's university is this way founded in Slavonski Brod tomorrow, you can say what Prof. A cregar to be founded in Karlovac. Resons are the same, conditions even better. So there's a broken procedure. On the other hand, he's been broken, and the measure of things, there's nothing new. These are programs that have existed so far. Nothing new will bring this university to the scientific and higher school community in Croatia. If there was something revolutionary new man would say, come on, let's not stick to that law like a drunk float, but there isn't. It's not and it's only done because this is the time it is, so someone's gonna pay it not just with money. That's the least of it. Someone will pay by the fact that in this way the University of Croatia is founded, that people come out of them with completely different ways of thinking than they should come out of the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120306	Thank you too, colleague Vuljanic. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to replicate to Mr. Flegi, I've listened to his exposure and it's clear to me that here as well as you as a man who's from the profession, and also a few people from Zagreb are particularly opposed here to opening and university, but also to the university, although I don't think you're right, because I'm sure that other particularly regional units of local self-government, especially like Slavonski Brod, which has close to 200 thousand inhabitants with its surroundings, and certainly deserves a university more regardless of what has a university and in Osijek itself. I am also a witness when we founded the Velect in Požega-Slavon County, i.e. in Požega, there were also the same rhetoric and proved incorrect. Today, the university is one of the best universities not only in our region, but among the best in Croatia. Of course, there were professors from the University of Osijek, or the University of Osijek, but in any case it proved justified, because today the university in Požega employs people from Požega-Slavon County, and that is exactly how it will be during a certain period of time that people from Brod-Posavina County, Požega-Slavon County, will be employed and that is just another opportunity for young people who are schooled and educated to get their jobs in their local environment. But I am sure that the university will also justify the results and that surely given the number of participants and users will contribute to one development and the environment itself, such as Slavonski Brod and all Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120308	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honorable Agent Iron Happy Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120309	Dear colleague, I'm a professor. Hebrang then I'd tell you while I was saying you were probably sitting on your ears. Because I've said on several occasions that I'm neither for the establishment of a university nor against the establishment of a university but that I'm against the way it's done. And secondly, I'm very sorry that I failed in my debate, because I tried to make arguments, not to use rhetorical figures as you characterized me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120310	Dear Representative Joseph Kregar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120311	Thank you. I congratulate and support my colleague Flaga's speech, but I'll look back on just one little detail. The University of Zagreb may have made a decision about ten years ago which prevents teachers from trying to say so in other universities and thus neglecting their institution and their university. This is not because there is fear of competition, nor because there is a desire to ban several cumulative incomes, but because such people are turning into professional knowledge traders, and that is what every university should be against and what is the idea of a university. I have experience with these kinds of jobs, I have negative experiences. It's not a way to help form new universities. Although there was a method to help the creation of the University of Split but also later in Rijeka, Zadar and not to list everything, Osijek in particular. That is why this idea of inability to defend the interest of its own institution by the University of Osijek does not lend its teachers to other universities is quite real. It is not something that will be done against but to retain your own quality and responsibility for your job. That's why respect for procedure is so important. And besides, I'm opposed to that, so much use of the futures, it will be, we'll see, etc. Because I remember that's what they say when it comes to sports competitions that haven't always been so successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120312	Thank you very much. We continue the individual debate of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the Honorable Agent Davorin Mlakar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I apologize in advance to my colleagues if I'm going to repeat in my debate something they've already said but it seems important to me in this subject may be repeating us to some better conclusion. They told me to prepare for this debate that I was a political blind man, because it simply had to be supported by this law, given the pre-election campaign we are in, although we haven't called yet. And in that light, I see a bill of this law. It occurs to me to try to compare the way this law is passed with the decision to establish the University of Oxford or Harvard, when we like to compare. And then by reviewing these world lists, you find our universities on those lists, the important universities are gone. Zagrebačka, which was once among 500 at least, is no longer on the list. It could be said that these lists that rank universities notice that our quality is falling. Not to stagnate, but to fall. Did this new network of higher education institutions contribute to her? You can talk about that. But in any case, the consequences are significant. And I'm afraid that way we won't attract students from abroad. And in particular, as is professor. Cregar said, what's going to happen is if they're going to come, who's going to study everything there, that's a big question. We don't have a crystal ball, and I'm not even sure about those projections. And the bill-making projection is gone. The law is still warm, it did not arrive to dry the ink on the 17th of this month to the Parliament to discuss two days before the disbanding of the urgent procedure I spoke of many times again with an important and important decision. I don't think there's one in Zanzibar either. It is only possible in Croatia and it is possible because we are two months from the election. An emergency procedure argument, respecting the procedures of the professor. Flego, our Rules of Procedure says, for particularly justified reasons, laws are passed by emergency procedure. In this case, the reason is that according to the RS statistics, 26% of the population is highly educated from 30 to 34 years old and the Brod-Posavia County is 15%. Which means there is 11% behind the Croatian average. And we'll settle that by establishing the University of Slavonski Brod? This is of course not an argument for an emergency procedure if we want to respect our Rules of Procedure. But something had to be written, and as the paper suffered, we wrote all this nebulise. And the second reason for the adoption of an emergency law is to encourage the politic development of higher education and the integration of existing study programmes in the area of Brod-Posavina County. That reminds me of the second element of this law, which is also extremely convenient. That's how high schools can grow into universities. We're going to connect high schools that couldn't be universities when they were founded, so they're going to become universities. Therefore, we also opened those 24 or 25 higher universities to become universities, so we'll all be absolutely happy regionally. And now that you're talking about reasons why such a law must not appear, let alone bring, they'll accuse us all of being politically blind, that we don't understand how to enlist voters, that we will lose in particular in Slavonia votes, and no one will think about the consequences of these laws for the whole country. And we were able to share immediately this time on a regional principle with each other and in Parliament, drawing the sympathy of a population of people by satisfying their wishes. If, according to our own wishes, we create legislation, I have a handful of them that can turn them into laws, but it will be as caricature as this one when I appear with my wishes in the Parliament. It's a matter of the ability of the state, not of our wishes. So, according to this, when we talk about the quality of the law, which is just as quickly as the decision was made to still appear in Parliament before the election, then again in the transitional and final provisions, I will talk to everyone about the article 14 which says, and Professor Flego said about "that within 90 days of the entry into force of this law the Senate of the University of Osijek, the University of Osijek, which carried out teaching programs in Slavonski Brod, he will decide that he will no longer do so and that his teachers, teachers and professional when he withdraws, for example, to the University of Osijek." But the legislator already knows that the Senate of the University of Osijek will make such a decision within 90 days. We were talking about university autonomy, and all we're left with is a question of what would happen to this law if the Senate of the University of Osijek accidentally didn't decide what the legislator would like, and before he told him he was free to decide how he wanted to do it. This is completely pointless law, this is a law that expresses the clear intention of the ruling governments to court voters in Brod-Posavina County or, if you will, all of Slavonia and we will now have to justify ourselves here and prove that we are not against the establishment of a university in Slavonski Brod. And I understand the regional desire of our colleagues to implement this decision. There are a lot of places in my constituency that don't have universities and anyone could compete for a university in their work, but it would be really caricature. At the same time, the same ministry that's showing up here, we don't have the funds in the budget, it seems to me that the minister was talking about 400 million kunas, to raise salaries to educators, workers enlightening 4%. At the same time, the government that has announced a strike of the entire education, the government that stands out for science just as it stands out for associations in this country does not have the power to regulate salaries and under the threat of strike but has the power to establish a new university, a university for which university teachers sitting in Parliament say it is pointless to set up in this way. Not that they're against the university, that it's not done in this way, this way is first illegal, they've spoken colleagues and they're anti-constitutional, but this law is pointless and given our real possibilities. Whether students from Bosnia and Herzegovina will come maybe, I'd like them to come from France to that university, but I doubt it's a real wish. We do not seem to be aware of the crisis we are going through, we are not aware of the importance of the decisions we make and we are not aware of our own responsibilities that we cannot represent the particular county interests of our country's opposite interest here. Croatia is too often a can to crack anyone who remembers and we must prevent it regardless of good intentions and regardless of our regionality. And comparisons with the City of Zagreb which constantly bothers you I think they are unworthy representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120314	Thank you, too, dear colleague Mlakar. We have three replicas. The first replica, the respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120315	Thank you very much. Comrade Mlakar, I was downstairs so I listened on TV, on the screen your speech came here to give you a replica. In fact, you were talking about damage that would be related to general national interests. On Friday, you voted here for that conversion of the Swiss franc into the euro and all of them, yes, they were all unanimous on the matter, who will be the damage, or the money that is in it, the sum of 7 billion kuna paid by Croatian citizens. So is that also a damage to the general public, in terms of general interests? You speak even on purpose a little bit about bringing it back 4% of that money for teachers and bringing about the establishment of the University of Slavonski Brod, which has no mild relationship with each other. If the government finds 100 million kuna for the Immunological Institute, and for some other things, 200 million kuna for pensioners etc. then quite certainly certain as they say the shifts, etc. I can also provide that 200 million kuna if he has the will, and I think he even has the opportunity, given that as someone said about Santa Claus and those things, that it's re-distributed and that our teachers deserve it, they deserve it, and they have the right to do it. But don't bring unnecessary relationships and make some evil blood between this bill and the failure of 4% to our teachers. I mean, it's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120316	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120317	Dear colleague Grubisic, I am pleased to have you follow my work but not sufficiently precise. When you talk about voting for the Swiss franc law check out who was in favour, who against, who refrained and then publicly step forward. Check and then publicly step forward, and don't mention it, it's always very bad. The bond of pay for people in education with the university is that you give them up at the university and educate them, and the same people we can't afford later, they get schooled there, it's a relationship. And it doesn't give birth to any evil blood to the fact that I'm talking about the same ministry as the beneficiary of the budget because it's necessary in the budget to choose not to say to secure the funds for one purpose and for another, it's that connection. But it's not bad blood. It is only a matter of whether we need an emergency procedure two days before the end of the assembly session to decide on such an important issue as the establishment of a university. I think it's too important to get rid of it overnight, to get rid of it if you want over your knee, and there's no evil blood, and there's no other insinuation except that all of this was done because we're ahead of the election. And don't let us go further insinuate and find out who's interested in this lawmaking, and maybe I suggest right now who should be the rector and dean of that university. It comes to mind, for example, Mr. Jakovina or Milanovic whose government suggested it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120318	A new replica, dear Frane Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120319	Thank you. Well, I actually think that we were brought to the Croatian Assembly in one bad position all together because I think there is certainly no one among us who would not support the establishment of a university and certainly there is no one among us who does not want science to be more and more present in Croatian society and to be the foundation of the development of Croatian society, and of course the establishment of a university is a presumption of that. However, it is clear from these discussions so far that this is a very questionable bill. If there is a question of illegality and non-compliance with the law here, and some colleagues are asking the question of compliance with the Constitution, then I think we should really pull the brake and review it all, see if we really look at it in the best possible way and just wait with that decision and see if it is really well prepared and whether there are any preconditions. Because this is how it really turns out that one part of the MPs who work at universities that I trust really know the matter they're talking about, and we all know it, too, is the impression that in a clear way they send a message that this bill is not prepared enough and cannot be supported in such a way. On the other hand, if there is a desire from the field and our fellow parliamentary representatives from that part, they have quite a legitimate desire to support it. But you mentioned now the names of the senselessness of the law, etc. Well, maybe the law makes sense. Maybe the secretary general will finish college in his town, so maybe in that sense, I guess his colleagues will support him.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120320	Thank you. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120321	My colleague Matušić, speaking of this, I was talking about motives and something that brings us to the public with incorrect statements from our colleagues in a bad position. We are brought here to account for 80% of our discussions that we are not against the establishment of a university when conditions exist. Everyone who spoke arguments about this law said that for this university there was no conditions for establishment. But, of course, those who, due to their own interests, want to provoke it from a reasoned debate, in fact, is a shallow and selfish debate to be courted by voters. It's this selfish approach because anyone who needs to get to the constituency, and there he is in the constituency will be made public unless he represents the interests of his end. Whether these interests are translated into a law that makes sense is the question that we're talking about. No one here is against Slavonia, against the violent at the last hour of law-making that distorts our reality, which shows that everything can, if all is permitted, even if this is an unauthorized funding of election campaigns. This way the government actually goes on a campaign, and it's all just not allowed to work this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120322	The last replica, Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120323	Your Honor, Mr. President. A fellow Mlakar, the party loses... is being Slavonia, already all the polls know and speak publicly or do not speak. They've destroyed their agriculture for us, too, but here in Slavonia, they've brought them down on a beggar's stick, and now they want muppets to buy them, here's a university in Slavonski Brod that's illegal in three hours. If a university was founded in every village in Croatia, and they were founded in villages, yes, and I will raise my hand to be a university in Slavonski Brod and HDZ is for that. But my colleague, Llakar, I'm replicating you, you're surprised that by ruling as not referring to the legality of this proposal. My replica to you, I'm surprised to you that you're surprised that some things don't make sense to you. They don't care about legality. When will it become clear to you? So we didn't want to bring really three laws into the first reading and they brought four years every day in the first reading of the law and no one at all. That's right and moral now. We're on TV every word we weigh whether Hlorka will bring one from... They had to be four from the SDP there right away and what I know about Jakovina and some others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't play anyone now, they don't play flies on HTV, they play Partisans, they play Partisan movies, they do propaganda, they put all the media in their pocket. You're surprised by that, too. Don't be surprised, colleague Mlakar. He won't... Nothing to buy in Slavonia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're gonna build a university in Slavonski Brod or now or for, anyway, we're gonna have to build it, not them. This doesn't cost them anything, what's wrong with telling them if Jacob's gonna be there, so be it, but he won't solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120324	Let's hear the answer to this line, Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120325	Dear counterpart Marasovic, I am surprised that you are surprised that I am surprised that they are working against the law. I have so far become used to all the proposals of this government being well explained, legitimate, understandable and have for the purpose of a better life in the Republic of Croatia. I'm not gonna say maybe this is the first one that isn't like that. It bothers me more that he may be just before the end of his term in the finale. Is the political background of passing this law advocacy to voters in Slavonia is what I was talking about in my presentation. Unfortunately, that's the only reason why this law is passed. And I said, it's not the government's intention to set up a university in Slavonski Brod. If she had that intention, it would have been in the strategy, she would have prepared the law, not this one at the last minute with the shortcomings she could fall for. And he would offer himself to the Parliament for the adoption of six months earlier, not three days before the end of the term of office when coalition partners suggest that such a law must be passed and thus condition their pre-election coalition. And that's the real reason for the law. And that reason could even be written in the reasons for the law to be passed by emergency procedure. Then at least it would be clear what we're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120326	We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the respected representative, Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, at the very beginning, I will declare that I am all-increased in support of the establishment of a university in Slavonski Brod, regardless of what I therefore come from that end. So I believe that in the Croatian Parliament you can and must discuss not only the arguments, of course you should, but that even emotions sometimes need not be excluded. And I will, of course, try to give just one, perhaps a brief picture of how this university in the establishment could help sustainable development I think the entire eastern Croatia not only of course the Brod-Posavina County. Given, of course, that science and scientific research are not a matter of regional character or national character, but that scientific research is therefore both scientific and academic community in a way that contributes to global development. And leading, of course, to make sure that in Slavonia, especially Slavonski Brod, scientific research especially in the section concerning engineering and at the Faculty of Engineering dates here we heard for 50 years and were very strongly connected to the industrial development of the region. So this decision of the Government and the decision we hope to make in 2 days here in the Croatian Parliament is considered extremely strategic, I do not link it to the pre-election period. And they also cannot agree with those colleagues who said that the establishment of the University of Slavonski Brod is contrary to the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately it could be heard this morning just as this university is founded to allow students and students from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina to come to the Republic of Croatia and buy a diploma. So that's the way of the debate I don't think it's appropriate, given the importance of the decision we're going to make. It should not be avoided that Slavonski Brod has a specific, therefore geostrategic and traffic position and that it can, of course, count on attracting works of students and students not only from gravitating counties but from all over the Republic of Croatia, so I hope both neighbouring countries and the European Union as well as other neighbouring countries. Because that's already happened, of course, to, I say, especially a study of engineering dating back to the '50s. And it should not be forgotten, of course, that as has already been said before and here again I risk being called by one who is used by emotions in debates, of course it should not be forgotten that Slavonski Brod has indeed suffered extraordinary war destruction and that, of course, it is faced with complex challenges of its development because not only in that city, demographic changes occurred after the war and during the war, but, of course, there have been changes in the local labour market. And it was actually marked by a powerful metal industry, which today is influenced and globalized differently. And I believe that the establishment of a university, or integration, in particular, of the Faculty of Engineering, would lay good foundations for some long-term reflection on the industrial development of this area. I would also like to point out that this government has therefore invested and supported the creation, in fact, of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology Research that exists today in Brod, and it is related to Mattius Antun Relković High School, which has been recognised as the Centre of Excellence in the education of young people, so this high school education of young experts and experts in agriculture and biotechnology, and this investment of a million-and-a-half euros is in fact in this Biotechnology Centre, and it is quite an indication that it makes sense to continue with the development of the studies of bilingualism and tomorrow a study of manufacturing engineering, i.e. biotechnology. I therefore believe that the integration of existing study programmes accredited to a new university can also represent a platform for the establishment and development of new study programmes aimed at producing and developing new technologies and of course improving the quality of study and study perspective in that part of Croatia and the acquisition of new knowledge. Of course, we know that many young people leave for Osijek after high school in Brod or primarily in Zagreb and rarely return to Slavonia, and it is certain that in this sense the establishment of universities and the development of new programmes in the future can contribute to a different demographic and developmental positioning of that part of Croatia. I kind of disagree with my colleagues and colleagues, i.e. with colleagues who discussed today and who in some way and underratedly talked about the scientific and research community, I would not only tell Brod but also Slavonia, and I would like such discourse not to be heard in this Croatian Assembly. So I have confidence in the scientific academic lecture community in Slavonski Brod because it has a very long tradition and I suppose that the establishment of a university would certainly help them in not only achieving but also maintaining a level of excellence in scientific work, but also raising the quality of teaching so at a future university and with many optimism I will certainly give my vote for the adoption of law on the establishment of a university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120328	Thank you. The last individual debate, respected Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'm surprised that this law has been able to pass through the parliamentary committees. He is definitely in breach of constitutional provisions on university autonomy, in line with legal provisions that such things should be said by the National Council, but it has passed. He went by obviously because he had to go by because there are most of them on all the boards. Today's discussion is a good part of a review of the discussion on the establishment of the University of the North. Other people talk, from the other side of Croatia, but the reason is the same, you underestimate us, you don't love us, you hate everything north or east of Zagreb and so on. People of God, that's not true. We can't talk about it here, and we don't need to talk about it. We need to talk about whether there are any conditions for the establishment of a university. These are not conditions for establishing a agricultural cooperative, honoring agricultural cooperatives, but slightly different conditions. Everyone who supports the establishment of a university in Slavonski Brod is talking about that there are classrooms, laboratories, dormitory, teaching opportunities and similar things that are probably true, I wasn't there unlike Varazdin. It's probably true, but these are the conditions for establishing good schools, not the conditions for starting a university. In studies, especially in postgraduate and graduate studies, they teach almost exclusively or most of the people from the University of Osijek. So there is currently no indigenous scientific and teaching community, an academic community in Slavonski Brod that would be able to stand behind that university and say look, that's us. Because the university isn't even the building that's out there in the square, the university isn't even laboratories, the university isn't even students, the university is first and foremost teachers, the ones that work at that university. They represent the university and they are what they are or not the quality of the university. The organization of the establishment is chaotic, it was seen, I think there's just some kind of response waiting from the Senate of the University of Osijek which, of course, is insane, no one has ever met anyone. There's a say lab, they paid for it but no one's seen it yet. My people, we're setting up a university without having a paper showing who's working there, what's doing, how much it works, where it can be expanded, where it needs to be narrowed down, we have no idea about it, and no one knows about it, but people are very much in favor. This actually wants to satisfy certain local ambitions before the election, of course, and collect a number of votes in the eastern part, as the establishment of the University of the North wanted to collect in northern Croatia. It may work, it may be a good tactics, but it will be harmful to everyone and, above all, to the scientific community in Croatia. Read the letter sent by the Rector of Zagreb University, and you will see what the University of Zagreb feels about it. Studies organised there are mostly not all, but mostly professional studies. Professional studies are I am deeply convinced and I participated in the establishment of a university in Croatia there in '97. A year. Professional studies are very necessary in Croatia, not only in Croatia, throughout the world of course. These are studies that are applicative, where people through one come to a high level of education come to the knowledge directly needed in practice, in the factory, where already. Scientific studies, or university studies, should be something else. In a nice part of the university, they can even say at the Zagreb University they are not. But that's already a historical problem. Why now if there are 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 universities in Croatia and some of them were founded in strange ways, which is true, they were founded here in the Assembly in strange ways. Why do we have to do another one in such a strange or even weirder way? Why do we have to justify our mistake today, so they've made the same mistakes. Where does that lead and where is the end of that logic? They all do, so I guess we deserve to win. We suffered this, we were ignored here and there. Now it's our time to get something. It may work for the road and for the bridge, but in no way for the university. Where's the end of it, anyway? And in the end one quite stupid question? And who's gonna pay for it all together? He says that bill has no cost, of course notoral and orderly lies. One normally organised university in Zagreb costs 20, 30, I don't know how many million per year. High school studies cost a lot less. No one can explain to me that no new costs in the organization of this university will appear, and that the university will rise and advance and be internationally recognised at a high scientific level. My people, that job costs money. Croatia has no money for the job, at least it has not singled them out, it singles out at least in Europe, we are at the bottom, we are under Albania in the separation for scientific work. So we don't have the money for it, we won't spend any more, but we'll blossom. So I don't know where that logic can work now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120330	Thank you. We have one replica, dear Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120331	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuljanić, I listen very carefully to your debate and in one sentence you said that the University is not buildings, not dormitories, not even students are not universities, although I think they are, but are professors first of all. In ours, don't mind me, in our friendly conversations, and friends like this we used to tell me that you taught at the same time and at two, you personally at two universities or the university and at one university and even abroad, which is commendable. I'm not saying that because I'd like to, but because it's commendable. Therefore, if we are looking to say that the participation of certain lecturers of high scientific titles at post universities and at universities, then we see that in Croatia it is a phenomenon that is quite widespread. Therefore, I don't know why this University of Slavonski Brod would be an exception to such practice. Do you think that your lecture at another university, for example in Slovenia, is less quality than you taught at the university in Karlovac? I don't think so. I am convinced that you are a very high-quality lecturer in Karlovac, but also anywhere else where you are engaged as, therefore, a man with a scientific title and where you teach. So, I think that part that you were talking about isn't, it's not totally standing, that's what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120332	Replication response, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120333	Short in one sentence. The guest teacher at another university or at any other higher institution is a guest. He's one of them 120. 120 home teachers and, of course, a guest comes a semester and tells a story as soon as he deals. But if the situation is the other way around, if it's domestic 5 and guests are 120 or how long they're out, then I think we can look at things differently. Because people who come to the so-called. Tossing in nearby cities where you can get by car, bus and all that expensive stuff you do? So let's be honest, they come over there, they're peeling their class for the whole month at one afternoon and they come home. An institution cannot be established on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120334	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I thank the respected minister and everyone who took part in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120335	Final proposal of the Law establishing the University of Slavonski Brod, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 917 The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 101 votes, 1 vote abstentions and 8 votes against Law P.Z. No. 917 in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120336	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Mine Action, second reading, P.Z. No. 823. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Deputy Deputy Minister of the Interior Evelyn Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120337	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The application of the applicable Law on humanitarian demining and the implementing rules adopted on the basis of it shows that there has been a problem in the implementation of the law itself and in the realisation of demining operations. Namely, the apparent changes in emerging social relations, the requirements of the profession and the change resulting from the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, as well as the adoption of a series of other rules in line with the acquis and the alignment with international conventions, have led nevertheless to the accession of this new Anti-minal Act which should be improved in a more comprehensive manner and to the removal of the existing gaps and the non-determination of certain provisions of the applicable law and the possibility of their different interpretation and application. The basic issues proposed by law are therefore the following. I'll just briefly try to telegraph them. The activities of mine action shall be prescribed and shall regulate the responsibility of the rights and obligations of all participants in the process. Redefined and tightened conditions for legal persons and craftsmen for the purpose of obtaining authorisation to perform demining operations by manual mine detection for machine surface preparation tasks and for surface examination tasks using a mine detection dog. The conditions for the work of foreign legal persons and their employees are fully regulated and are harmonised with the rules on the work of foreigners which are in conformity with EU directives and which has not been resolved by the applicable Law on humanitarian demining until now, or has not been prescribed. The quality control of the demining surface is increased by the pyrotechnic overseer of CROMAC from the current sample of the total size of 450 m2 every third working day, regardless of the amount of demining area to at least 5% of control samples, compared to the total demining area required to carry out CROMAC. In this way, quality control of demining operations of authorised legal entities or craftsmen will increase by at least 10 times, resulting in greater certainty when excluding demining areas from mine suspected areas. Such a way of carrying out control and quality CROMAC will limit contractors to avoid speeding up demining operations. Administrative barriers shall be removed in the light of the assessment of the capacity of accreditation before the procurement process itself. The tasks of the general mine suspected surface reconnaissance shall be redefined and the tasks of the supplementary general reconnaissance carried out on the surfaces of the lowest risk shall be determined. The additional general survey is a newspaper compared to the applicable law because it stipulates that in the general survey process, more security is done by entering the suspected area and taking control samples in a quantity of at least 1% more precisely establishing possible pollution of the mine-explosive area or unexploded means and parts thereof. In particular, the tasks of the technical survey shall be determined which, by their purpose and implementation under this final proposal of the law, result in a better, more precise development of an idea of demining plan, i.e. by excluding the area from a mine suspected area if the same test determines the non-pollution of the area. Search procedures have been abolished because they are excessive, search projects have been shown to be unnecessary and irrational, as they were mostly not mine-explosive or unexploded means of killing, or instead CROMAC could make a technical survey project and, at less cost, exclude the area from the mine suspected area or in case of established pollution, develop an idea demining plan. More specifically, operations are defined to destroy mine-explosive assets or unexploded means of killing and parts thereof. The destruction operations are in line with the regulations governing the area of explosive substances, which have been amended and comply with EU rules in the meantime. Administrative procedures for the approval of higher effects of pyrotechnicians and procedures for the control of the more authorised effects of pyrotechnicians carried out by pyrotechnic or CROMAC supervisors under the provisions of the applicable law are hereby repealed as they did not ensure quality. Therefore, the dynamics and security of the performance of demining operations depends on the professional assessment of the head of the workshop as an employee of the contractors who manages all the work at work and for them a misdemeanor and possibly criminal response. Therefore, the dynamics of works do not depend on the administratively operational assessment of CROMAC officers whose primary role is to control the quality of demining operations carried out. More transparent are the procedures for the final quality control of the demining operations carried out in the form of the establishment of the Final Control Committee, which is composed of impartial participants. 12. The authorisation procedure for pyrotechnicians, auxiliary staff shall be simplified in such a way that only one card, not the first authority, is required to carry out operations in the mine action system, and then the card. The joint criminal liability for the remainder of mine-explosive means or unexploded means of killing and parts thereof in previously demining areas for reasons which are more precisely shared by this final bill of law by all participants in the anti-mining process. And therefore a clearer responsibility for performing certain tasks in the system. In this way, the final draft of the law is in line with the provisions of the infringement law. Restrictive and unsustainable approvals of the amendments and additions of the implemented projects approved by CROMAC shall be abolished. According to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Mine Action Plans, they shall be drawn up in the event of the replacement or introduction of new facilities in the workshop. Since demining operations use material technical means which are subject to the examination as well as all other products placed on the market should be brought into line with the rules on technical requirements and the assessment of compliance already in line with EU rules. The CROMAC staff's competences with CROMAC workers are more clearly specified. For certain incriminating actions, different levels and types of penalties or different safeguards are prescribed precisely, since certain acts of offence point to different levels of responsibility and social danger. In relation to the infringements of the applicable law, the final proposal for a law on criminal conduct has made it more clear and more precise to respect the principle of the determination of beings and actions. The fines are expressed in domestic currency, and the heights and types of sanctions comply with the provisions of the Criminal Law. It should be pointed out that certain amendments and additions that have been proposed by you MPs at the first debate of the law in the Assembly are normally part of it. Thus, Article 6(2) has been updated in a way that the national mine action programme is submitted to the opinion and units of the regional self-government, the Committee for Local and Regional Regional Self-Government representative Krešimir Bubalo proposed this. Article 137(2) has been amended in a way that the fine will be fined by a pyrotechnician if quality control or quality control during demining operations determines not only mine explosive assets found and not explosive means and parts thereof, but also unexploded, metal detections which the pyrotechnician is obliged to perform Club of Representatives of the National Party of Reformist, DC and New Wave representative Petar Baranovic. This provision of Article 4(1), paragraph 26, was developed in such a way that the state provides assistance to those persons who have been killed outside mine explosive areas while for those entering the prescribed mine suspected area in which the prescribed criminal sanctions are prohibited, MP Josip Djakic suggested. Finally, the main objective of the new Mine Action Act is more efficient and rational implementation of general, technical and quality demining operations, demining and quality control, increasing the safety of all participants in the humanitarian demining process and handing over the demining area safer for use by end-users or users. Finally, the bill will raise quantitative control of the quality of demining areas in order to increase the safety of excluded areas, which is also the most important objective of demining operations, and will exclude the areas of the lowest risk on the basis of stricter criteria, remove administrative barriers, achieve a satisfactory dynamic of mine action operations with precisely defined responsibilities of all entities participating in the demining process. Well, that's kind of the short end of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120338	Thank you. The replica was reported by Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120339	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister of the Interior, so when you talk about the effectiveness of the new proposed Anti-minal Act, I must warn you and replicate you as the highlight of everything in Article 57(1), under the most difficult conditions, may depart from the laws of the prescribed methods and demining procedures. And that's what really shouldn't be in the law. In fact, the general question is whether this law should, if the most difficult conditions are to depart from the legal norms and forms prescribed in this law. And Article 72(7) does not need to be found all NUS or parts of MES, this is a really serious threat to the safety of citizens as well as to pyrotechnicians and safety of the Republic of Croatia. This is inadmissible for these things to stand in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120340	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The Honorable Mladen Novak will speak on behalf of the ORAH Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120341	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I must admit that in these four years of office, we have never, at least I, received so many objections, objecting from the field as to this one. Qualifications are about the same. This law is not in accordance with other laws this law is disastrously ill written, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is contrary to international conventions relating to this issue, and ultimately what is most importantly unanimous is the assessment that this law will unfortunately endanger the lives and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and primarily those to which this law applies, i.e. pyrotechnicians. We've proposed 17 amendments as an ORAH club. And I have to admit, with those 17 amendments, we didn't cover half of what we got in the field material. I'll try, given that it all mostly came this morning, I'll try to get over what people of the profession warn about. So it's not some political debate right now, it's a warning to those who are dealing with it. So the question arises is whether the victim is a mine and a person who entered a mine suspected space that is not properly marked. Under this law, it doesn't appear to be. Now you think about it yourself if you know how the minefields are marked and now if someone unwittingly moves the board somewhere, did it fall by itself, the person who enters that space and the victim is not the victim. Is that really logical? The Act prohibiting the use of the production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction in Article 6 provides that the Croatian Mine Action Centre shall exercise professional supervision over the destruction of anti-walking mines found and disabled by legal persons authorised to carry out demining operations. While the Antimine Act abolishes any control over authorised persons when destroying mines, it even prohibits them. All countries of the region have particularly strict control over mine destruction while Croatia leaves it exclusively to the workers and does not exercise any control over the whole process. Well, I don't know if there's anything more necessary to control it than just over this area. I know that there is some trend with us to privatize, not only with us, but it is a trend to privatise everything that can be done but some things would really be minimum minimum would be to stay under the control of the state or that we could say in a safe way to exercise control. In addition to the anti-minor action Act, the anti-mining act is contrary to the Law prohibiting the use of the production and transfer of mines and the destruction of mines in its provisions, provisions which put anti-explosion protection police officers in a privileged position which can be employed in CROMAC after the end of the service while the rest of their retirement can no longer be employed there. Is it discrimination and in some way denial of the Constitution? As I recall in the Constitution, we're all the same before the law and we all have equal rights and equal opportunities. But if in the law you emphasized someone and singled out, then is that law in my opinion, and I believe the lawyers will agree that then it's questionable how constitutional it is? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The humanitarian demining inspection should exercise administrative control over the exercise of CROMAC public powers and, under the Anti-mining Act, they will carry out inspection controls on CROMAC. The Ministry's inspectors are not police officers and do not belong to the Police Act but under Article 132 have the authority to enter residential premises without a court order, they can record everything with a video camera without anyone's approval and do not exist in criminal provisions. Now there's a list of among other things and the specifications that we all have people in these places so I wouldn't talk about it because maybe it's a little bit and too much getting into someone's personality. But I'm interested in this part of the inspection work in construction, mining, economy, electricity, trade, etc. only persons who have at least one year of working experience in addition to the conditions for admission to the public service. But inspectors who should oversee such complex and demanding tasks as demining can do so quality and professionally only because they are allegedly trained professionally from the domain of the state administration. Here the author of this lists such experts as the one who has forged a law that aims to speed up demining so that the surfaces are excluded from SMEs. Well then we have some, which is also in the amendments delivered to you, some remarks on the very terms used. But I'm also interested in article 39. If a technical investigation determines greater pollution by MES, NUS, etc. So what does more pollution mean? Is that some measureable size, greater pollution? More than 1 is that bigger? More than two? I think in this law that it stands something so undefined and ambiguous, I think it gives the authors of this material the right to claim that this law has been made extremely badly. This is already the second author, another text that also potentiates the issue of control over the destruction of anti-walking mines but also has one part that refers to the unequal position of pyrotechnicians. I must admit that when I read this, I was in doubt what the author was going to say with this. Imagine the pyrotechnics are gathering hours under his diary, that's his condition for a well-favoured internship, that's who to say, since, for example, we have concrete ballerinas who have the right to an unfavourable work internship, that it only counts for the time when she's on stage and dancing ballet. At this point, they'd be able to put together a condition for the benefits of a work internship. The same story applies to pyrotechnics. How effectively do they have to work? Practically three years, that's what the authors have calculated here, three years to get the conditions of what should be in a year. And here is also the mention of favoring a particular group in employment that I was just talking about. My colleague Djakic mentioned in the replica a moment ago this article 57th, I really think, I believe that we have the same material, well they set an example here, this would be as if in the Road Safety Act it says that in the case of a big traffic jam on the highway, the law is put out of force, or we don't have to stick to the law. So when the law prescribed that in certain situations, but there is no one, in some situations that law does not apply. Well, I think that's honest with me, I'm going to be gentle, so I'm going to say unserious approach to this problem and the problem is extremely serious. After all, remember how many victims, civilian victims, or peacetime victims, in mine fields? And these authors also cite the powers of Inspectorate Inspectorate of the MUP and have a little witty about them, having more authority than intelligence agents. Since the application of this is practically free to break even human rights or to record, photograph, video records, I think it is contrary to several laws and when you put something like that into the law, then I agree with critics who have said that this speaks sufficiently of seriousness and access to this problem. And the last query we got, we got that a few minutes before this debate was started, which was warned by the same pyrotechnics, which is Article 16(3). "The responsible person in the legal person, i.e. the craftsman, is not legally punished for the work relating to the payment of the salary." And now you have a situation that the inspector is coming to the field, finding that because of financial problems really the firm didn't pay the salary for last month on time and they can no longer answer the competition no matter what they pay the fine, settled everything, but they can no longer report to the competitions. I think it's a bit of a prejudiced measure, after all, that's what the pyrotechnics or their companies warn about. Let me remind you in this activity there are many examples where people organized themselves and founded companies that actually 5 pyrotechnicians have their own company and they work. So they haven't paid their own wages for certain reasons, because of some difficulties, they're late with it, they pay for that punishment, and they can't continue to participate in the competition. I think they're right when they say this is a pre-rigorous measure. And as for these 17 amendments of ours, when we vote, we'll have a chance to talk about it, too, so I'll finish this debate. In any case, the ORAH club cannot accept such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120342	Thank you. We have two replicas. First the esteemed Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, you said that you had 17 amendments to this law in ORAH, I could conclude that you are not likely to be a profession, nor am I, but I will remind you that on the draft proposal in question, a working group composed of representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Croatian Mine Action Centre, the Ministry of Defence, the Association of Employers in humanitarian demining, the Croatian Union of Humanitarian Mine Action and a new union in the coordination of the Office for Mine Action of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So if that's not the profession I don't know who should be the waist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120344	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120345	Thank you very much, colleague. You said well they were involved, what is their esteemed, ask these same experts what is their esteemed? What was put on paper that they participated even among other things you mentioned the new union, these are their observations, these are their observations? What do you think people would complain if someone respected them? Try talking to them. I said right away in the beginning this all that I'm saying and what here is all the waist said. I don't take it as my right to know how close they know, let alone know more than they do. But if the waist said this never burns material, that's what the profession said, there's no reason why I don't trust them. And by the fact that a few of these provisions I read really tell us that some things are contrary to other laws, even in one part of the Constitution. And at the end of the day, this material stands between me and some part of me, not some sort of one, but my discussions from the first reading. I'm afraid we should examine the phonogram so it doesn't exactly fit what I was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120346	Second replica, the esteemed Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, I agree that the fact in your debate is highlighted in Article 16(3), where the actual fulfilment of the conditions is rather rigorously stated by the team and was also part of the amendment within the framework of the HNS Club. but he would ask that part of the quote stands for quite a long time as it is in force and the previous law and this amendment of the law and I would be very interested and I couldn't get that answer as far as the point of that part means the pay default was fined. I'm just one company, and the specificity and weight is precisely that demining is such a specific action that you don't have registered to 100 things you have. One such thing that is applied directly and immediately comes to you closing down the company. It's happened to a single company so far for demining, it's a Tornado company which is the moment after... On the basis of a misapplication of that part, the MUP fired 50 people. And you can't deal with, I don't know, growing flowers or cleaning green areas or cleaning ambrosia, but you have this basic activity. And I think it's an absolutely rigorous allegation, and the Penal Code says otherwise and releases if you, in the meantime, make up for that part of the pay. I think it's very rigorous and it hasn't been consistently applied so far, so I don't know why it should continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120348	The line matches the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120349	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I don't know how many cases there are, I know that a man came to me this morning about it, but if it's true that there's only one of you, then it's practically not to say someone's discretionary right to eliminate someone or competition like you say, and on the other hand, not to look through their fingers, but to definitely grumble at similar cases. I don't think the law should leave that possibility in any way. It's true that the gentleman who contacted me this morning told me that until now, a few days ago, there were no such cases, but that it was about a month ago that the inspectorate was going intensively to solve it that way. Whether what you said to the competition eliminate or enforce strict law, I can't judge. After all, it's not even alluded to that direction, but it's as simple as you said yourself at the beginning of your replica that maybe the law is too rigorous in that part and that you should make some kind of a different solution because this I'm afraid will destroy all these little ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120350	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Damir Cain reported. He's gone, the club's losing its right to debate. In the name of the SDP club, the esteemed Allen Prelec will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120351	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the second time we've discussed this mine action law here. In his first reading, a colleague said whether any law was more serious than this. I wouldn't completely agree with that. Clearly, all these laws are serious. However, this law says it can save people's lives and that's important, and I think we're all going to make a responsible contribution to just passing this law through amendments, but also through today's debate. The reasons why the law is also adopted and the fundamental issues governed by the law, and the consequences that this law will result in a demining system in the Republic of Croatia are regulated by the provisions of the Law on humanitarian demining and rely on two basic documents. It is the National Programme for Mine Action of the Republic of Croatia and the humanitarian demining plan brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for an annual and three-year period. The National Mine Action Programme of the Republic of Croatia, based on an analysis, size and structure of the mine problem in the Republic of Croatia's way of solving it, and the factors on which it depends on solving that problem should meet, among other things, the objective set out in the Ottawa Convention under which Croatia committed mine removal until 2019. However, given that the dynamics of the demining process are closely linked to the insurance of financial resources, the deadline set in 2019 could be questioned. Therefore, there was a need to change the current humanitarian demining system so that mine suspected space could be more effectively reduced and narrowed down in the area really polluted by mine-explosive means and... and their parts and to give a safer area to the end-user. The analysis of the applicable law and the implementing rules adopted on the basis of it identified certain difficulties in the implementation of demining operations, and the problems that need to be addressed in order to achieve that objective, with an emphasis on the transfer of safer areas to end-users, as far as possible by adopting a new Mine Action Act. The given guidelines and frameworks according to the National Programme, the Strategic Plan in the Danube Strategy, as the National Programme for Mine Action of the Republic of Croatia has been planning to achieve the following objectives since 2019. Complete removal of mine risk from the territory of the Republic of Croatia by 2019, maintaining the marking of mine suspected area in all phases of mine problem solving. The establishment and implementation of the education programme of the entire population who lives or works in the environment of a mine suspected area or gravity. Continued care and rehabilitation including psychosocial rehabilitation and economic reintegration of all mine victims and the positioning and promotion of Croatia's mine action system in the international community. Speaking today about the mine problem and mine action in the Republic of Croatia, we can determine that a major and visible shift has been made in solving this particular problem faced by the Republic of Croatia in the course of and especially since the Homeland War. The Republic of Croatia today is safe from mine danger in all parts of transport infrastructure, tourist destinations, areas of renovation, gardens and areas around facilities of social purpose. The Government of the Republic of Croatia recognises the mine problem as a security, economic and environmental problem from the very beginning and has confirmed that in all key components of mine action, primarily in ensuring stable sources of funding in the state budget loans from the World Bank and public enterprises of the Republic of Croatia, the European Union funds, as well as good, transparent relations with international donor communities and donors in the country. Since 1998, the Croatian Mine Action Centre has developed its own model based on internationally recognised guidelines using modern techniques and technologies. Today, one of the world’s experts is among the best in the region and the world. A mine information system has been developed adapted to all complex processes in humanitarian demining and implementation of the public procurement and quality control process. When we talk about it being really not an easy job, I would just point out one fact, which is that for 11 thousand, at 11 thousand 272 square meters, 11 thousand 272 was found one mine and it costs an average of 10 thousand euros. And we know how much one mine costs, one, three, ten euros, I don't know. So it's a job that's really expensive. What's even more important to mention in these last two, three years, there's not been a single pyrotechnic strike. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The merits are clear, above all, of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and of the Croatian Government that provided the funds, and there are no more non-payments in this system. Since 17 years ago, the demining of Croatia from mines has been cleared of 485 square kilometres of land for which 4.5 billion kuna has been spent. By the end of this year, there will be almost so many more surfaces, or 450 square kilometers. In recent years, it's been working faster and more. More people are engaged, the technique is more modern. On the... 300 pyrotechnics were employed daily in Croatia, of which 657 were initially employed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every day a pyrotechnician on average finds and destroys 10 mines. Minefields in Croatia are marked with 12 thousand 868 tables. Since the European Commission approved a rural development programme in May this year, 6 Croatia's counties, Karlovac, Lika-Senjska, Osijek-Baranja, Požeško Slavonska, Brod-Posavina and Sisak-Moslavina have appeared in a competition opened by the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development. The price of the tender is 228 million kuna and all the counties that have applied for the support tender will be awarded. The European Union covers 85% of the value of works through the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the rest pays Croatia from the budget. It is precisely these funds that have already begun demining agricultural land in the carlovakia county, in Sablaci, Modruski, where unfortunately a miner died a few days ago and one died. In this area, 3.7 square, square miles of demining is agreed. The support of 91.2 million kuna has already been given to Sisak-Moslavina County for minement 13.4 square kilometers of agricultural land in Sisak, Petrinja, Glina, and the municipalities of Sunja, Topusco, Gvozd and Dvor. The demining of 3.7 square kilometres of agricultural land in Požega-Slavon County will also begin. The following days will also be signed contracts on demining support for 10 more square kilometers in Osijek-Baranja County, Brod-Posavina County, Lika-Senj County and more. The anti-thumin activity in the Republic of Croatia consists of several groups of activities. These are the jobs of humanitarian demining, the education of the population, the assistance of mine victims of rehabilitation and reintegration, the destruction of stored mine supplies. And I would repeat what my colleague here had in mind that this draft really included all those who know something about this business, including the clear Ministry of Defence, the Association of Employers in Humanitarian Mine Action, the Croatian Union of Humanitarian Mine Action, the new union in coordination with the Office for Mine Action of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Could we make an ideal law? Probably not, probably not. But to try and do that, I think you should try, and it's exactly what you see about this who's all involved in the draft of this law that's being passed. The office's involvement in obtaining funds from European funds has also been highlighted, with 75m euros withdrawn so far for demining agricultural land, and a total of about 300m euros should be withdrawn from Croatia in the coming years. Finally, the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget, even this few years we have, but also projections for 2016 and 2017. The SDP will be for this law, and I hope that all of you will be the same so that this law will come to an end so that there will be no more situations like the situation in the Carlovakia County where one pyrotechnician died. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120352	We have two replicas. First Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120353	Thank you very much. Buddy, you've said a lot about what should be replicated but among other things, financial resources are needed to bring an end to demining within that deadline, look at the amendments. Among other amendments, it refers precisely to donations, donations which unfortunately are related to a plan, and now if you find a donor who will, has the will, has the will, has the means, donate funds for something that is not in the plan of priority, you can't and man maybe or donor, no matter who he is, doesn't want. The amendment of this law is actually purely due to flexibility in order to reach the deadline and loosen the conditions, nothing else. We are, in fact, doing nothing with this law but destroying the conditions that existed. And this is, frankly, when you study it a little bit better, when you catch time and will, then you'll probably see that these people are right. You mentioned that the demining is the complete infrastructure of the garden. When I first read it, I used to tell you that rural areas were mostly mined, not mostly but almost 100%. And now you have cases that people have agricultural land for 20, 30, but for 25 years, they can't reach it. I cited specific examples. He can't go to his farmland, he can't go to the woods, what this means to him, and all that time he's standing. And you mentioned the technique progressing. You're aware that until the pyrotechnics pass, they can be whatever technique you want. She may be something better, easier for him to work, but until he passed it, it wasn't demining. I hope you're aware of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120354	Replication response, Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120355	If we weren't aware of this, we wouldn't be working on this law that should solve it all. I understand people living in immediate danger, it is understandable, but here you yourself know from the report that agricultural land will be fully demining by the end of 2015. One other thing I'd like to point out the same thing, you were talking about not having enough resources. Namely, the need to define an exit strategy for workers in the mine action system is one of the solutions to the use of knowledge, experience and techniques or a system of mine action as part of the development assistance that the Republic of Croatia has participated as part of the EU. The use of EU funds contributes significantly to reducing the time needed for demining. Operation 522-mining of agricultural areas reduces the demining by 2 years by comparing the financial forces of the Republic of Croatia from its state budget to the one intended for demining. So that's a significant reduction. Is that all ideal? No, I repeat, but indeed in these last 2-3-4 years, a lot has been done in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120356	Second replica, dear Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120357	Speaking of these mines, and this migrant drama is under way because only 9 hours in Croatia have entered according to the data of 44 thousand migrants and refugees. Baranja is sown, Eastern Slavonia, mines. Migrants are wandering around Croatia as they like it, so it wouldn't just happen if someone didn't let God get hurt. These fields need to be isolated, they need to be kind of clearly, unequivocally marked, shown on maps where they are so that no one let God die. Here's the only reason I'm answering my word. And this is that we have withdrawn 75m euros, that we will eventually withdraw about 300m euros, it is certainly important money, but no matter what precisely in the course of this migrant refugee crisis we need to talk to Brussels to help the additional Republic of Croatia. Here I read today a statement by Minister Ostojic saying that as an old scout, he would never find a way for a bapska, which would say that someone quoted them under quotes, both from Belgrade and perhaps from the ground of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120358	The esteemed Josip Djakic will speak on behalf of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club cannot and will not support this bill because this is something that must not happen in the Croatian Parliament, something that has placed the profession on the margins, did not respect all that is put in the first reading, on all that... warned. In a series of things put into place in this law there are discrepancies with other laws in the Republic of Croatia. Certain provisions are unconstitutional. The anti-mine action law is trying to fundamentally change the current way and demining procedures, and it shows that basic professions are not respected. But the achievements that have been applied for years not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in the world and where many times the Croatian demining system has received international recognitions and is highlighted as an example of a system that works and works well. That's what the waist says. The profession also says the following: The final proposal for this anti-mining act, which should replace the Law on humanitarian demining, is in some articles even discriminatory, dangerous for the safety of citizens and the most pyrotechnicians because this final proposal of the law abolished all the mechanisms of proper control carried out by the employees of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. This law only favours employers in the demining system because all mechanisms of control have been abolished, which will result in a drastic reduction in quality, and they speed up the work and easy profit, i.e. In translation, we can conclude that it is suitable for individuals. This is what should not happen, and in particular it should not happen that there are articles in this law that allow the non-finding of mine-explosive assets and unexploded means of killing. This is what is absolutely contradictory of what the law should pass and therefore I can only say that in a series of things that should be changed, counterpart Novak emphasized what it did through amendments to what the profession said, which is appreciated. Some details are respected, which are also important, but minor to what has been left in the law and which will not be good in the future. I'll start with Article 57. It states in the cases in paragraph 1 in cases of high pollution by mine-explosive means on explosives and their parts resulting from the explosion of the MES and NUS warehouses or abandoned explosives which have a large amount of the same resources distributed for the result, and not a mined area may be deviated from the law of the prescribed methods and demining procedures. Well, that's what puts this law out of use and force right now and anyone can put it from the CROMAC or the Ministry of the Interior, so we're not going to apply the Anti Mine Action Act here, but we're going to sort of do it differently. What else would that mean for me to read you in paragraph 1. It means that this article shows the intricacies of the law-makers themselves, because the funds scattered by the explosion of the warehouse are more dangerous than the mine-explosive funds set up and should be treated as well as the meat and the methods prescribed. This is defined as if in the Transport Safety Act what counterpart Novak read and said on the roads was written in case of major traffic on the highway this law or the Transport Act would not apply. Well, that's, I don't think it's tragically funny. It is funny that Article 2 states: In the cases referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Croatian Mine Action Centre must develop a specific idea plan for demining the method, demining and quality control procedures and equipment and means that can be used are prescribed by the Regulation governing the way in which demining operations, quality control of general and technical reconnaissance and the marking of mine suspected areas are carried out. The regulation mentioned here and defined how works on such surfaces will not exist at all for the time being. And that's what's going to be brought in the future and who knows what it's going to look like. In the case of mine-explosive assets or unexploded means of killing and their parts, in Article 65(1), in the case of the finding of mine-exploding assets and their parts of the decisions on destruction or other means of care shall be taken by the head of the workshop, and in paragraph 2 the worker shall be responsible for the type and quantity of MES and NUS found and their parts corresponding to the type and quantity of the committed MES and NUS and their parts for destruction. And the responsible person, the legal person responsible for the destruction, shall be responsible for the type and quantity of MES and NUS received and their parts corresponding to the type and quantity of MES and NUS destroyed and their parts. This Article sets out the persons responsible for the operations of destroying the found meat, which is contrary to the provisions of the Law on the prohibition of the use of the production, production and transfer of anti-walking mines and their destruction, People's Journal 141/04, where Article 6 of the Croatian Mine Action Centre is defined as carrying out expert supervision of anti-walking and anti-walking mines as well as of the NUS and MES. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Croatian Mine Action Centre shall carry out expert supervision of the destruction of land mines found and incapacitated by legal persons authorised to carry out demining operations, the manner in which the controls referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article are carried out shall be governed by law and sublaw. The proposer of this law is Articles 70 to 72, which define the CROMAC staff's tasks, not to specify the control obligation, destruction of anti-walking mines. In Article 72(1) and (2), it is clear that, if MES and NUS are found, a repetition of works will be imposed on the grounds of non-quality, and items 7 which are said to appear, and paragraphs 7 and 7 of this Article are said to be said: "Articles 1, 2 and 3 of this Article shall not apply to the specific size of the unexploded material detections found and the type of non-exploded killings and parts of mine explosives and unexploded killings which are determined by a regulation governing the way in which the operations of demining control and quality of general and technical reconnaissance and the marking of mine suspected areas are governed. Paragraph 7 states that work should not be repeated because of the size of the funds found that are defined by the existing Regulation. This means that the Regulation will allow for the remainder of mine explosives and unexploded killings, and that will not be considered an irregularity for the loading of repeated works. And Article 59 of this same final bill says: "The demining business of an authorised legal person or craftsman is obliged to achieve the purification of the workplace from all MES and NUS and their parts." How can an existing or future regulation define how large the funds can remain as a sublegal act allow something that the same law does not allow? Articles 59 and 72 are contrary to each other because the 59th does not allow MES and NUS to remain and Article 72 does so. And that's what's contradictory. In Article 105(4) and (5) of this Article, they are even anti-constitutional because they favour the above two groups of military and police in relation to other pyrotechnicians, because the first one after retirement can be employed in demining, and the pyrotechnics can no longer return to demining if they so wish. When we come to Article 107, the insurance rate for an increased duration shall be calculated by pyrotechnicians who directly carry out the tasks of the supplementary general reconnaissance, etc. The direct conduct of the transactions referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 107(1) of this Act and the right to internship, insurance with an increased duration shall be confirmed by comparison of data from the personal control book with... the group leader, the documentation of the workshop, the technical survey and the demining of signatures on the content and manner of keeping records on workers in accordance with specific regulations and pension insurance regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, just that part that's the pyrotechnics in the mine-suspecting area that's been working on demining will be covered for his benified internship. A vacation that has the right under the law and rules will not be covered by everything else and will not have an unfettered work experience for it. That's what's also counter-constitutional and leaves the pyrotechnics in an uninvited position. As long as the inspectors of the MUP are not so defined, they have the right if they are engaged in the control and control of mine areas they have the benefit of a full-time internship. In Article 132, Article 132 of the Law, inspectors of the MUP gave themselves powers greater than the intelligence agencies, and a whole series of these items violates fundamental human rights because it is apparent that they do not need any court order to exclude, search and imitate all of them. That's what absolutely certainly engulfs human rights and will surely need to be exploited. It is better to accept certain amendments that my colleagues have already written, as I have seen, and to make it better than to be subject to a constitutional assessment or constitutional lawsuit that will surely follow. What about this law that's full of contradictions, irregularities and raising the possibility of malfeasance and everything that shouldn't come out of the MUP? To say that it is absolutely to reject and do not accept it or put it in some new third reading to be fixed, all those articles that talk about not acting in the interest above all of the pyrotechnicians, the safety of Croatian citizens and the safety of the Republic of Croatia. Speeding up in procedures, enabling subcontractors to do only certain jobs, and selecting performers and familial expertise that they have and may be to hire subcontractors who are also not fully controlled, neglecting supervision and supervisors from CROMAC who have done their job well so far, transferring these powers to police inspectors who are neither experienced nor so much expertise will certainly contribute to the improvement. This law was actually done in a way that should not be done in Croatia. The HDZ Club will not support this law, and I would like it to be left for repair in the third reading or not to vote on it as such, given all the irregularities that are visible in it, which are terrible and worrying that someone could have made such a law. When my colleague Prelec gave me the air conditioning that it is, I noticed that you do not have things that are important and factual, which are described in detail as irregularities and I believe that you will realize how many irregularities in this law have been subdued and which should not have happened from what you have said professional and quality people, and especially from the MUP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120360	Thank you. Replica, dear Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120361	Comrade Djakic, I will not enter the controversy with you, and you will deny only one thing that I will tell you now. This year's amount of cash over 430 million kuna is the largest amount ever secured in one year for demining. Please deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120362	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120363	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If I admit, that European money is included and 80 percent, 85% of that money will be used. That is why there are likely to be such irregularities in the law that they could be raised and that the malfeasances of that money could be spent speedily. Here they are, here in the law are clear items that make it possible and we warn not to call it who it will be, but in the past time there have been some ministers who were in today's government ministers, and they were led by such companies two, three times they found mines killing funds in the field that they demined and of course they couldn't get paid. But this law allows such people to get paid and these funds to be spent. That's probably what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120364	On behalf of the HNS club, the respected Marijan Skvaric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, so when we talk about this bill, which is in the second reading, and this Law on Mine Action, its weight and importance is first and foremost the very goal that we want to achieve by this law. The first goal is to clear Croatia completely from mines. The goal is also no less important, even the most important must not be more victims than mines, so we need to reduce the risk to all citizens. And, of course, he would point out that the socio-economic integration of demining areas is very important. And when we look at this goal that we've set for ourselves, when we're emphasising data, which is that we've been demining for 17 years, that in those 17 years, we've been cleared of 485 square miles and we still have over 450 square miles. So far, 4.5 billion kuna has been spent. Our plan is that in 2019, we set out how the whole area of Croatia will be demined. Whether or not it depends on this law in a large way, depends largely on financial resources and largely on the consensus of all of us, or on the ability of operationals to achieve that goal. When we talk about the current situation, 6 counties have not been cleared from mines yet, but what is important is that Croatia's entry into the EU opens up important new demining opportunities for us, and above all these opportunities are being opened in financial means. The tender opened by the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Period and the investment amounted to 228 million kuna, which is the characteristic of these funds, is that 85% are EU funds and 15% will be funding from the RS budget through donations and other funds. When we talk about these means then we can also say that at this point there are about 650 pyrotechnics, about 300 of them all the time, so half of them are constantly dealing with demining affairs and are currently operational and then we can say that with these means there is an expressed opportunity to hire all 650 pyrotechnicians who are now present. And how do we achieve all this together? In these discussions, something about reading and today we have highlighted many problems, many of the barriers that were present. And we need to solve these barriers and those problems. And I think that generally this law answers a lot of questions. Both the consequences and the results and solutions of this law should first and foremost raise quantitative quality control of demining areas for the purpose of increasing the safety of excluded areas, which is the most important objective of demining operations and will be excluded by the basis of stricter criteria, and by introducing additional reconnaissance procedures, by determining the categories of areas. It should also be achieved to remove all administrative barriers contained in the issue of double authorisation to legal and physical persons for the conduct of demining operations by the Ministry of Interior and CROMAC, i.e. the approval of amendments and the addition of demining implementation plans to be drawn up in the event of some changes which have no impact on the quality of demining operations is one contractual relationship, i.e. the contractors and contractors. It is necessary to raise and achieve that the satisfactory dynamics of mine action operations with the precise CROMAC liability of all entities participating in the demining process and must be more precisely defined by the rights, obligations and CROMAC staff as legal persons with public authority and by the staff of the Ministry of the Interior in accordance with the applicable rules governing the rights and obligations of civil servants. The HNS Club will support the bill's proposal but will also give one amendment to what we want first and foremost to equalise all companies and companies that can report or receive accreditation to carry out demining operations. Yes, and with that, I also pointed out above all Article 16 which discusses the fulfilment of conditions and evidence, and in Article 3(3), where the responsible person in the legal person or craftsman is not legally punished for the work relating to the payment of wages that this will be a criterion for failing to meet the conditions of obtaining accreditation or doing business. The law has long been in force, and the Penal Code also says the same thing about that part, and it is also defined that anyone who does not pay a share or a full salary once or more workers will be punished by a prison sentence of up to three years. However, it also states in point 5 that this law will not apply if the employer has not submitted an account of the outstanding amount of pay in accordance with the provisions of a special law or a fee from the payment of the late payment may be released. And there's the fact that there's a big problem in that part because companies that deal with demining business that... is the only activity. And the abolition of these provisions or the abolition of accreditation practically ceases their work on the market. And it happened to one company no matter what the person responsible has paid the fine and what is settled with the infringement provisions that have been defined, of course from the extenuating circumstances there is also a condition if you can't pay, if someone else doesn't pay you, and above all there is a state that has to pay off its share of obligations or if you have certain advertising or objections, so all of this together is about 50 people in a specific case who have lost their job. And I think that part should be appreciated. We are also thinking in the club, myself personally, that it is very much once again of demining goals, above all the reduction of victims, and that Croatia is completely cleared from mines and that socio-economic integration from mined areas is brought to an end as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120366	The final minutes belong to Deputy Interior Minister Evelina Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120367	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I think the most competent people who can be from this area and give answers to some questions have just been involved in the preparation of this law. The most represented people were just from CROMAC, trade unions, employers, MORH, MUP, therefore it would be difficult to conclude that it was a law that had just been passed so that it would be passed itself and that it would not advance this area rather than take it back. These people have worked for 2.5 years, these people have had over 50 working meetings, and most interestingly everyone has agreed to this bill. We'll agree that in life everything can be much better, there's always a better formulation, a better mechanism of some kind, but this is at this point the attitude of the profession. There was one claim that pyrotechnics are people who do not have an underprivileged job experience or only have it limited. No, it's not true. They're people who have an underprivileged job, if they're employed as pyrotechnics and do these jobs, like cops have their own. Furthermore, one of the claims was that the MIP's inspectors are people who do not meet some professional criteria to do this part of the job. That's not true. These are the people who have been in this story since the beginning, these are the people with high professional training, those are the people with colleges, and they're very well educated about this problem, though, and the pioneers are doing this job. The law itself significantly improves the quality of control. So it does not reduce the level of control of mine suspected areas and does not slow down or in any way does not allow it to function better and more effectively and work on this problem. I stress, 10 to 15% are better controlled by this concept of law. Furthermore, one of the remarks was that these inspectors have the ability to record something, so some video, so some photo, we all need to understand together that technology time has come and that with the help of technology sometimes we can reconstruct some events in a much more authentic, objective way than only the human eye can notice because we are all limited simultaneous capacity and sometimes we see differently in the same situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120368	Thank you. I thank the Deputy Minister, everyone who participated. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120369	Final proposal of the Mine Action Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 823. The debate on the text of the final draft law is over. The amendments were submitted by ORAH Representatives' Club, MP Marijan Skuric, the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Please, Deputy Minister of Honor Evelyn Tonkovic, let's go in order. ORAH Representatives' Club Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120370	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120371	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120372	The Public Institution of the Croatian Mine Action Centre was established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation and its name cannot be changed by this final proposal of the Mine Action Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120373	Carrier of amendments, respected Mladen Novak, on behalf of the ORAH Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120374	Thank you very much, President. Well, the fact is that we have so far had a law that applied to demining and now the whole text of the law actually refers to mine action, and we believe that it is logical that everywhere in the law is changed instead of the Croatian Mine Action Centre to introduce the Croatian Mine Action Centre because ultimately the name of the law is so. Please vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120375	Please vote on Amendment number 1 of the ORAH Representatives Club that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment number two of the same club representatives, Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120376	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. For certain categories of CROMAC staff, the same conditions for issuing a mine action card are not laid down.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120377	On behalf of the applicant, amendments to the honourable representative Mladen Novak. Mladen Novak is a respected representative on behalf of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120378	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. So changing the name of the clerk would allow all authorised officers of the center i.e. All those who possess one of the humanitarian demining cards will be more rationally used. I'd also like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120379	Please vote on Amendment number 2 of the ORAH Representatives Clubs which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We're going to Amendment number three of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120380	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120381	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120382	Some parts of mine explosives and non-explosive means of killing by their own action or under external influence cannot endanger lives, health, property and the environment depending on the state of the explosive substance and will be more detailedly regulated by the Regulation on how demining, quality control of general and technical reconnaissance and the marking of mine suspected areas are carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120383	Amendment holder, respected representative Mladen Novak, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120384	Thank you very much. Well, the offered definition is unequivocal and clear, and it doesn't leave room for different interpretations, and I think the version that we suggested is still more quality. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120385	Please vote on Amendment 3 of the ORAH Representatives Club, which the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. The amendment numbers 4 of the same club as the deputy deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120386	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. Quality control procedures and procedures in the course of demining operations differ from procedures and procedures in the final quality control. Quality control in the course of demining operations is done continuously so as long as the work itself is going on, while the final quality control is a separate technical review of the entire demining surface that is done on a one-time basis for the purpose of exclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120387	Amendment holder, respected representative Mladen Novak, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120388	Thank you very much. The final control shall be carried out in the same way as the control samples and the definition in our opinion cannot be different. But at the end of the day, all these amendments were proposed by the people of the profession, and I don't believe they made this charlatan and they were left with room for some sort of misunderstanding. I'm afraid by not accepting the amendments, and apparently you have no intention of accepting any amendment, that we will have the worst powers of the law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120389	Please vote on Amendment 4 of the ORAH Representatives Club which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment number five of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120390	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. Mine suspected area is marked with visible signs of danger. It is also prescribed to prohibit entry into a mine suspected area and, in accordance with that provision and infringement provision, for the reason that both the competent authority and the Republic of Croatia have taken all measures to alert the population of the general and technical copy and the marking of mine suspected areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120391	The applicant of the amendment, the respected Mladen Novak, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120392	Well, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I'm really asking you to pay attention to this, to this amendment. That means that if someone moves the board outside the minefield that victim who gets killed, she's not the victim, he's not the one who gets hurt. So do you understand what you're doing with this? So if someone's moving a board outside the minefield, no, the man in the minefield didn't get hurt. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120393	Please vote on amendment number five of ORAH clubs that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment number six of the same club representative-respecting deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120394	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. All amendments and additions to the mine action plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must also approve. It is not known that one donor has given up demining financing due to the very procedure that precedes demining.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120395	Amendment holder, respected representative Mladen Novak, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120396	It is not known whether someone has given up on it, but with this law we are practically forcing him to give up if he wants to donate to a particular area for a particular area of demining a particular part. And if that's not the plan of priority to anyone at all. I'm asking you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120397	Please vote on Amendment 6 of the ORAH Representatives Club which the government does not accept. The vote is over, please result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We're going to amendment number seven of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120398	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The contractors must deliver a clear and unambiguous demining implementation plan from which they must be visible both in how and how they will carry out demining operations. This way CROMAC will be able to choose the best bidder. Following the decision of CROMAC on the selected tenderer, the implementation plan cannot be amended except in the cases prescribed by the final proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120399	Amendment holder, respected representative Mladen Novak, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120400	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Given the seriousness in which amendments and the reasoning of the amendments are accepted, I do not have the will to explain it but only to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120401	I didn't hear. Are you looking?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120402	There is no need to further explain, but please vote on each amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120403	Please vote on Amendment No. 7 which the Government does not accept. The vote is over, please result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We're going to Amendment number eight, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120404	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The technical test shall be carried out on surfaces for which there are no indicators of systematic mining. If more pollution or systematic land mining is identified by technical results, an idea demining plan shall be developed. It is not appropriate to do demining tasks on areas which are not mine-free and which can certainly be determined by the technical reconnaissance itself. In addition, the Regulation on the way in which demining, quality control, general and technical reconnaissance and the marking of mine suspected areas in preparation will be laid down more precisely the criteria for areas on which technical survey or demining will be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120405	You want some though?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120406	I will.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120407	Honorable representative Mladen Novak, on behalf of the club of representatives of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120408	Well, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, let me explain now if you know which size is larger, which is defined by the larger, larger amount. Can one of you tell me what's bigger? Are two mines more mines? If two mines don't fall under a larger amount of mines there's no need for further demining meals? Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120409	Please vote on amendment number 8 of Mladen's representatives, or ORAH Novak, which the government does not accept. The vote is over, please result. I find Amendment 8 has not received the required majority. We're going to Amendment 9 of the same club of representatives. Your Honor, Deputy Minister of Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120410	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. Article 57(3) sets out the name of the document itself, which is a declaration of clearance from mine-explosive means, unexploded means of killing and parts thereof. In any event, after demining, after cleaning the area referred to in Article 57(1), an authorised legal person shall be obliged to make a declaration of clearance from mine-explosive means, unexploded means of killing and parts thereof, irrespective of the procedures and methods to be applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120411	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mladen Novak on behalf of the ORAH Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120412	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have no doubt that most have not read this law and it is common that it is not necessary for everyone to read everything, usually some of them follow some areas, but here it seems to you that this law can be put out of effect that's why. So why write a law that says that the law can be put out of force, that the same law is not applied, so does that make sense to you? There is, well done. He can vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120413	You got it. Please vote on Amendment 9 of the ORAH Representatives Club which the government does not accept. The vote is over, please result. I find Amendment 9 has not received the required majority. We're going to amendment number 10 of the same club representatives. Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120414	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry's inspectors will carry out inspection, and the ministry will determine in which cases inspectors will attend quality control during demining operations. Otherwise, quality control would be performed simultaneously by two institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120415	The applicant for the amendments, the respected representative Mladen Novak, on behalf of the ORAH Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120416	Thank you very much. Since it is not previously understood or accepted, this really would not make sense to explain, but I still ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120417	Please vote on Amendment 10 of the ORAH Representatives Club which the government does not accept. The vote is over, please result. I find Amendment 10 has not received the required majority. Amendment number 11. Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120418	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The authorised legal person or craftsman is in the interest of transparency in carrying out quality control tasks, and the employee of the authorised legal person or craftsman is obliged to perform quality control activities precisely showed the area prepared or demined for quality control. If transactions are carried out contrary to the contract CROMAC quality control supervisors will inform CROMACs as contracting entities which may comply with the regulations governing mandatory relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120419	The applicant for the amendments, the respected representative Mladen Novak, on behalf of the ORAH Representatives Club. All I'm asking is a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120422	Thank you, Mr. President, the amendment is not accepted. CROMAC quality control supervisor has enough laws on prescribed mechanisms. For the purpose of monitoring and implementing demining operations in accordance with the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120423	Amendment holder, respected representative Mladen Novak, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120424	As with the previous amendment, I'm asking only a vote but I'm afraid no one else... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120425	Please vote on Amendment No. 12. A club of ORAH representatives that the government does not accept. I'm asking for a result. The vote is over. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 12 didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 13. The O.R.A.'s club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120426	Thank you, Mr. President, the amendment is not accepted. CROMAC shall have over 50 trained personnel who may carry out quality control and, consequently, sufficient staff to carry out those tasks. The prescribed provision of Article 73(3) shall ensure impartial and independent quality control and final control of the quality of the works carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120427	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120428	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120429	Please vote on Amendment No. 13. A club of ORAH representatives that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 13. He didn't get the number of votes he needed. Amendment No. 14th of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120430	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The quality control officers who have performed their tasks during demining operations cannot be a member of the commission because the purpose of the commission and the final control is to exercise control over its work and because of the impartiality and transparency of the overall process of final control. [[Intruder: Explanation.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120431	I'm asking the applicant for an amendment. Honorable representative Mladen Novak. Please vote on Amendment No. 14. A club of ORAH representatives that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. The 14th didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment No. 15th of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120433	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The Director of CROMAC shall be able to collect, through its subordinated staff, all information relating to the operation of the general and technical survey or demining operations at the workplaces. Furthermore, it is not necessary, by means of the law, to prescribe the possibility of the presence of the head of the body in the places in which the work of the department of its jurisdiction is carried out, but the head of the body may prescribe it by an internal act of the body.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120434	The applicant of the amendment shall request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120435	I'm asking for a vote but just one sentence before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120436	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120437	When you're in the law, that means you don't have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120438	Thank you very much. You're looking for a vote, aren't you? ... Please vote on Amendment No. 15. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A club of ORAH representatives that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 15 didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. The 16th Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120439	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The inspectors of the Ministry who carry out administrative and inspection supervision shall exercise supervision of the implementation of the provisions of the law and shall be trained to carry out those tasks and shall not possess the working experience of the pyrotechnician or the head of the workshop since such tasks are not even carried out at the workplaces. For example, a building inspector who supervises the implementation of certain regulations in his work section does not have to be trained as a builder, carpenter or carpenter in order to be able to carry out the work of a construction inspector.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120440	Amendment holder, respected representative Mladen Novak, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120441	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120442	Please vote on Amendment No. 16. A club of ORAH representatives that the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 16 didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment No. 17th of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120443	Thank you, Mr. President, the amendment is not accepted. Until the adoption of a new regulation on how to carry out demining, quality control, general and technical reconnaissance and the marking of mine suspected areas remain in force, all provisions of the applicable Regulation on how humanitarian demining operations will be carried out and which are not contrary to the provisions of the final draft law. The general and technical survey of demining may continue to take place uninterrupted because the provisions of the applicable Regulation on the way in which humanitarian demining operations are carried out in essential parts are incorporated into the final proposal of the law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120444	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120445	Now let me ask you. And whose grades aren't the opposite? This is truly arbitrary, not contrary to the text of the law. The rules that are already in force. That's, I don't know, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120446	Please vote on Amendment No. 17. A club of ORAH representatives that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that Amendment No. 17 didn't get the required majority. We are moving on to the amendment of the respected representative Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120447	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The provisions of Article 16(3) shall apply to the responsible person in the legal person and not to the legal person of the company. In the anti-minor action system, it is necessary that the person responsible for the non-payment of salaries cannot continue to be responsible for legal persons performing demining operations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120448	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative Marijan Skurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120449	Thank you very much. However, we believe that this, too, is unwarranted because it still leads to the loss of many jobs and the denial of accreditation in any case since it is the only job that leads to the abolition of the company itself or the one who owns the company itself. And especially if in that part of the activity is an investor of the state and wages are not paid for not only because there was no but also because it may not have been done or paid in some way. We think that the Penal Code also speaks better of pay defaults, especially in that part, that if late payments can be paid, fines can also be released. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120450	Are you asking for a vote? Please vote on the amendment of the respected representative Marijan Skvaric, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We move on to amendment of the respected representative Bora Grubisic, number 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120451	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted, in accordance with Amendments 3, 4 and 5 of the ORAH Representatives Clubs. If I have to, I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120452	If they're the same, then we're exhausted... We voted on these amendments and they're the same, the content is the same. Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120453	It's the same explanation...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120454	Yeah, yeah. But is the amendment identical? ... Then read it, don't seduce me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120455	All right, let's make it all right. ... mine-explosive means and non-exploded means of killing, certain parts of mine-explosive means and unexploded means of killing by their own action or under the external influence itself cannot endanger life, health, property and the environment, depending on the condition in which the explosive substance itself is located, and this will be more detailed in the Regulation on how to carry out operations of demining and quality control, general and technical reconnaissance and the marking of mine-suspecting areas. [[He doesn't understand it because of a loud announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120456	Thank you very much. Amendment holder, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120457	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, I don't know what amendment you're making, is that amendment number one? The number 1 amendment was also contained in the amendments, this is one amendment and it has a, b, c, three subpoints l, was in Mr. Novak's amendments. [[The incursion president: Yes.]] Since we need to determine the material, and Mr. Novak has given an explanation that is identical to my explanation, I will not explain that amendment but I demand a vote to determine the material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120458	Okay. Please vote on amendment number 1 of the representatives of Bora Grubisic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I note that Amendment No. 1 of the respected representatives of Bora Grubisic did not receive the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment number two of the same deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120459	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The technical test shall be carried out on surfaces for which there are no indicators of systematic mining. If more pollution or systematic surface mining is identified by technical results, an idea demining plan shall be developed. It is not appropriate to do demining tasks on areas which are not mine-free and which can certainly be determined by technical reconnaissance. The rules on how to perform demining, quality control, general and technical reconnaissance and the marking of mine suspected areas in preparation will also specify criteria for areas where technical tests or demining will be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120460	Amendment holder, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120461	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, Article 39 states that if the technical investigation determines that mine explosive pollution is greater, so you tell me which one is greater and which one is less polluting. It's a very interesting definition of greater pollution, which means whether there's a number of data. Finally, according to Article 23(4) of this same law, it is said that on the surfaces treated with a machine to prepare the surface of CROMAC will carry out a manual mine detection to at least 20% of the treated surface. If only two mines are found on 20% of the machine-treated surfaces, which will not be considered to be more pollution if up to two are therefore not, it is entirely possible that there are at least two more mines on the remaining 80% of the surface, but such an area can be excluded. So I think there will be problems, unfortunately there will be problems with this suffering, and it will not be legally covered and that is not good. Therefore, this article of Law 39 is almost the most controversial in this entire legislative proposal, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120462	Please vote on amendment number 2 of the respected representative Bora Grubisic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find Amendment 2 has not received the required majority. We're moving on to Amendment number three of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120463	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry's inspectors carry out inspection and will determine in which cases inspectors will attend quality control during demining operations, otherwise quality control would be carried out by two institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120464	Amendment holder, Honored Representative Boro Grubisic, Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120465	What counterpart Novak says is there's no point in explaining the meaning of the amendments because they are, with the help of the parliamentary majority, so unadoptible. I'm just asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120466	Please vote on amendment number 3 of the respected representative Bora Grubisic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find Amendment 3 has not received the required majority. We move on to Amendment number four of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120467	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The inspectors of the Ministry who carry out administrative and inspection supervision shall exercise supervision of the implementation of the provisions of the law and shall be trained to carry out those tasks and shall not possess the working experience of the pyrotechnician or the head of the workshop, since such tasks shall not even be carried out on the premises themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120468	Amendment holder, respected representative Boro Grubisic, Amendment number 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120469	The amendment therefore concerns the text of that amendment that it is completely unequivocal, precise, complete text in relation to the tasks of inspection supervision. The amendment is broader than the law article itself because it fully explains the tasks of inspection supervision. And in the end, as in general, here is now our Croatian public that administrative supervision may not require work experience in the profession, and inspectors can be those who have never entered the workshop before. How can one control an inspection field, or minefield, or demining work if he has never seen or seen it before? He says he's dressed. Well, you can end up as a driver if you're not driving a locomotive you've never been able to do that, you haven't been through a traineeship about it. So, what's school worth if she doesn't have any experience. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120470	Please vote on amendment number four of the respected MPs, Bora Grubisic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that Amendment number four has not received the required majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 1 vote abstentions and 24 votes against law P.Z. No. 823, as proposed by the Government, together with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120471	We move to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 920. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of the Interior, Reverend Evelyn Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120472	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is a voluntary, professional, humanitarian and not party association of public importance that organises, promotes and performs the activities of saving and protecting human lives in mountains and in non-accessible areas and in other exceptional circumstances. It is organised at the level of the Republic of Croatia in areas of local and regional (regional) self-government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Law on the Civil Protection System HGSS acts in the field of the Republic of Croatia as the basic operational force of the civil protection system in major accidents and disasters. The Croatian Rescue Service Act provides for the structure, activity and financing of the HGSS, the rights of members of the HGSS during interventions, cooperation with international organisations, state administration bodies and other natural and legal persons. Obligations of organizers and participants of sports, tourism and other activities and supervision of law enforcement. This proposal extends the basic tasks of the HGSS and adds new public powers to them. It should be pointed out that the members of the HGSS will, through the performance of its tasks, draw up a record which has the property of a public document in order to exercise the right of insurance, to establish responsibility for the damage caused, to initiate the infringement procedure, and secondly to reports on accidents and identified dangers. It will also be able to express an oral solution and make a record of the actions that have been stopped because they can pose a threat to human life and health and may cause material damage to property and nature and will be able to conduct training of HGSS members to provide first aid on non-accessible areas for helicopter rescue as well as for a pilot-free manager. This proposal provides for the power to adopt safety rules on the measures and rules of conduct of persons participating in activities in the mountains and other non-accessible areas. The law also proposes to authorise the Gora Rescue Service for an authorised prosecutor in an infringement procedure for violations in the area of public powers prescribed by the law. In order to carry out its activities, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service acquires funds from the state budget, the funds are provided in the financial plan of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. From the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government in which the Croatian Mountain Rescue Services stations operate, funds are paid to their jury. From donations from the execution of contractual services, from gifts, inheritances, from the implementation of projects to improve safety in mountainous and other non-accessible areas and other means used exclusively for the pursuit of its activity. The proposed law prescribes a source of funding through gambling revenues to be determined by a specific regulation. This bill therefore creates additional material and other conditions necessary to carry out the activities of Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service and further development, thereby facilitating co-operation with local and regional self-government units and other entities with an interest in the activities carried out by Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service. And most importantly, additionally, the protection of human lives is being arranged. The law is proposed to adopt an emergency procedure in order to comply with the provisions of the new Civil Protection System Act and to improve safety in mountainous and other non-accessible areas where tourist activities take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120473	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Franco Vidovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120474	I would like to thank the Vice President, Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments to the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service and although the small adoption of these amendments and additions creates additional material and other conditions necessary to carry out the activities of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service and its development. This proposal facilitates co-operation with local and regional, regional self-government and other interested users of the activities carried out by the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. The protection of human life in the mountains and in the unaccessible terrain is also further regulated and, in other exceptional circumstances, prescribes the possibility of stopping actions that pose a threat to human life and health and can cause damage to property and nature. The powers of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service are extended which relate to the production of a record that has the property of public documents, the reporting of competent authorities, the implementation of training for members of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service to provide first aid on non-accessible terrains and training for nature supervisors. New funding sources are also added to carry out the regular activity of financing the operational capacity of the HGSS from gambling and in accordance with specific regulations. The reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure are the need to comply with this law with the provisions of the new Civil Protection System Act and to improve safety in mountainous and other non-accessible areas where tourist activities take place. To take a picture of the importance of Croatia's mountain rescue service in saving human lives and protecting material assets and nature, it is enough to look at newspaper titles and articles. We at the SDP club are deeply aware of the roles of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service and they are an unforgivable part of every story about saving, every story where people's lives are threatened. To these people who volunteer their duties, the whole society owes thanks. I remember their role in the extraction of the injured firefighters from Kornath, I remember the selflessness they helped, it was an event which had fatal consequences unfortunately, but the role of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service in it was undoubtedly positive. People in red jackets with a recognizable mark are part of every search in the most inaccessible places like the one on Velebit for passengers of the injured aircraft that took place and in very difficult weather conditions a few years ago. They participated in a series of other less attractive media but equally important rescues, equally important, equally important because what they save are human lives. That's why they deserve all the public recognition and gratitude. Here I must also say that the SDP Club will refer the amendment to the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service proposal itself, to the proposed amendments and amendments to the law and thus show understanding of the tasks they perform daily, but also the will to improve existing and proposed legal solutions in the interest of services operating in the public interest. The SDP club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120475	On behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected Miroslav Tudjman will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120476	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will continue on those sentences and the thesis that my colleague Vidovic made. In public, we have a presentation of the work of the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service and we often see very often how those risks are exposed to saving people's lives and material goods. Unfortunately, in this reasoning of the law, we have no record of it, and that is something that is a lack of this bill, whether because it was rushing or for some other reason I wouldn't go into it. However, it is necessary to say this. The Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is defined as a national, voluntary, humanitarian, professional, non-partisan association, but with this we did not get the data as many people as there are hired, how many certificates there are to do these jobs, what kind of network of stations of these services according to the territorial principle, with what financial resources they have. We don't have anything from that data. On the other hand, they are given the powers which, I am in favour of being immediately understood, means that they give certificates for the education programmes implemented, from being able to give oral and written solutions to suspend certain activities, from being authorised prosecutors but then asking the question to what extent and from which they are participants at both local and national level, but then asking the question to which extent associations can, such defined associations can assume these powers of administrative or other, or of this procedure, which is here.... Not for this association, I'm not contesting this in this law, but I'm asking a question which are then other associations that could assume these powers. That's why these things aren't fixed. On the other hand, the problem is with finance. Again, according to the default here, they say they don't need any new funds. On the other hand, we have also heard here that these funds are possible from donations, gambling, or budgets, but that was the same in public. I think the time has come to make one categorization of these accidents and cases in which the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service and the State Protection and Rescue Authority must intervene entirely without asking about who and under what conditions these accidents have occurred. But clearly there are cases where it could be, too, those funds could be refunded. If someone goes to some national parks that we often have over the summer to go to Biokovo, Velebit or I don't know where, without respecting the elemental standards or not following the instructions, it should be assumed that, within those tickets, part of the funds is allocated to insurance and then charge or bear the costs of these Mountain Rescue Services. If you're going abroad for skiing, unfortunately I'm not going, then you have to pay certain insurance that covers such costs in such cases. There is simply no such thing in this bill, there is no categorization of these cases or categories in which the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service intervenes. He is supposed to be the most invited to define and bring such a single proposal and then watch on that basis how these costs can be covered which is undeniable, probably from year to year, will be growing more and more, unfortunately more and more. And in that sense, we should welcome this, accept this law, but we should be aware that it is not thoroughly prepared to the end for these reasons that I have listed here, and that one logic that we are passing laws with the awareness that we will have to recommence them in a very short time and change certain things, I don't think it's simply a proof of the immaturity, unprofessional preparation of the law, especially in this case where things should be clear and where they are not controversial and I believe that we can reach consensus in this law as well. Thus, one regret should be expressed that there has not been a step further in this, although I believe that there will be an excuse in the fact that there is neither a strategy nor a whole system nor a national security strategy as a broader framework within which these concrete solutions should be defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120477	Thank you. He says his colleague Gjurkovic won't be long. We're giving him a chance. HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy with associate, colleague and colleague. So, about something called the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, it would be a little 15 minutes to talk, I believe not only to me, but to all the club representatives, because they really showed what is crucial and clear, which is that they are a guarantee of the security of the use of space, that they are guaranteed both in good prevention and in saving. They also opened up new perspectives, so not only do we provide them with conditions that are necessary for further materialising these extremely important and extremely difficult and responsible responsibilities, or volunteerism, which they are dealing with in order to protect human lives in all conditions, not only in the mountains, but also in the exceptional circumstances in which they have proven themselves, and have, through these amendments, given them one responsibility, work and records as public documents. Croatia's mountain rescue service has more than 900 members, only dozens are constantly employed, all volunteers remain. A high-level expert prepares, but the highest responsibility and consciousness and conscience towards human destiny and this country. What I would like to stress is that, in addition to this human, human rescue guarantee of safety and preparedness at all times and in the most difficult situations to be the first and their lives exposed unfortunately, some are hurt and hurt to the grave injuries of human injuries among members of the Mountain Rescue Service, because they are willing to do anything to save human life. What I must stress is that, in addition to improving the system on which they work and which these amendments are contributed by them, they are working on something called the opening of new perspectives of development. So not only do they work to save the lives of the citizens. 1700 interventions last year, 900 interventions this year, 600 in Bosnia and Herzegovina last year, 13000 people were in situations where the Mountain Rescue Service saved them and helped last year, including areas of flood. What's important is that they do shelters for houses on Kameshnica Dinara, they open up a new space for development, space for sports activities, safety for making roads in the mountains, for developing tourism, for economic development, for making maps with which tourists and our fellow citizens can use, resuscitate areas where they both watch and protect and save, but also develop. And so I just wanted to point out other than this great role that they play in our society that they work extremely hard and develop which is not known, extremely much at Dinara and Kameshnica have made shelters and houses and new roads. They also organize events, animated and cyclists and organise such events, which absolutely means that it is an exceptional organization. And one more time, I'm gonna do it again. All praises for the work so far and for these amendments to the law of course ensure that new conditions and new responsibilities continue and we will always be open to help, to participate and to participate with them in this great task they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120479	Thank you. I thank the Deputy Minister, thank all those who participated in the debate, and I conclude this debate. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. It's 13,26 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120480	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 920. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting on the proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, no abstentions and 24 votes against the accepted proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like the representative of the motionary, respected Deputy Minister of the Interior Evelin Tonkovic, to introduce us into the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120481	Thank you, Mr. President. For the purposes of the writing error, there was a separation of subparagraphs 8 and 9 of this paragraph in Article 5, so it is necessary to correct it in a way that these sub-items are combined and become sub-paragraph 8. The same text is set out in Article 5(2). Law on the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service of the National No. 79/06.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120482	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 23 votes against the adopted amendment of the government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are moving on to the amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives, the respected Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120483	Thank you, Mr. President. The responsibility of helicopter, emergency medical services is regulated by other regulations, so they do not need to be prescribed by this law. In addition, these releases of this formulation will in a simpler way distinguish the functioning between these two GSS services and the Emergency Medical Service in crisis situations regarding helicopter engagement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120484	Please state if you accept it? Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 106 votes for, nothing abstentions, one vote against the adopted and passed law P.Z. No. In 920, the text proposed by the Government together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120485	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We will now, as agreed, unite several of the following items of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision to cross the border of the Republic of Croatia Armed Forces of NATO member states and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia engaged within the United Forces of High Will from NATO's rapid response system, - Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in UN peacekeeping operations from 1 October 2014 to 31 August 2015, - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in UN peacekeeping operations, - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission "Resolution Support" in Afghanistan, - Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces in the peacekeeping operations of KFOR in Kosovo, - Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, which are directed to work in other NATO-ledness and NATO-ledness-ledness (NAH.) by NATO-ledness-ledness-ledness of NATO-ledness, NATO-ledness-ledness and national governanceing activities in NATO-ledness and NATO-led management of the NATO-ledness-led security (. Proposer of all these decisions, reports the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The decisions of the Rules of Procedure for the Second Reading of the Law shall apply when making a decision. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received their reports at the session. And now I'm going to ask Deputy Defence Minister Mrs. Vishny Tafra to explain the decisions and reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120486	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. Here is a set of decisions prepared by the Ministry of Defence, primarily concerning the participation of members of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions and operations abroad, and we were equally obliged to submit two reports on their participation during the time periods. So I'm going to start from the first item of the agenda, which, as the Vice-President of the Parliament said, means it's about a proposal for a decision to cross the border between the RS Armed Forces of NATO Member States and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia engaged within the United Nations of high readiness from NATO's rapid response force system. Simplified due to a significant deterioration in the security environment at NATO's borders, NATO heads of state and government members at a summit in Wales in 2014 adopted a decision to establish a joint high preparedness force as a work of NATO's rapid response force. During NATO summits in Wales in September 2014, allies approved an action plan for the Alliance's readiness to ensure its timely and decisive response to new security challenges. The plan brings a comprehensive package of measures to respond to changes in the European security environment caused primarily at the beginning of the crisis in Ukraine, followed by Russian Federation procedures and events in the Middle East and North Africa. The plan represents the largest strengthening of collective defence engagements since the end of the Cold War, by analysing data on peace-making procedures in the Member States, it has been established that the peace-making procedures of certain Member States, including the Republic of Croatia, last long, and may pose a disturbance in the timely response of the alliance to sudden threats. Since it is high preparedness forces, it is necessary to decide in advance on the approval of the cross-border of the Republic of Croatia in order to allow timely decision-making and order-making and to ensure the deployment of forces. It is also necessary to make a decision in advance to move to the borders of the part of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia which will enter into the assembly and which are declared in a rapid response force for its rapid engagement by NATO authorities and commanders. We therefore propose to make a decision to cross the border between the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of NATO member states and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia engaged in the framework of the joint high preparedness forces and the composition of the NATO response force and to allow for a rapid reaction by the Republic of Croatia in situations of possible, sudden threats to the alliance. This would bring the Republic of Croatia in line with the requirements set out before it by the agreed allied goal of achieving the capacity to respond to new security challenges. The President of the Republic agreed on a proposal for this decision. As regards the second item of the agenda, the report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in UN peacekeeping support operations from 1 October 2014 to 31 August 2015 on the basis of a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the 2013 peace support operations of the United Nations adopted by this High House. From October 2014 to August 2015, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participated in a total of 3 peace support operations of the United Nations in the area of the Middle East, Africa and Asia. Armed Forces were deployed in operations in Lebanon, India, Paxitan, and Western Sahara. Although the said decision of the Croatian Parliament of 2013 envisioned the possibility of participating up to 32 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in 6 peace-support operations of the United Nations, our members participated in three peace-support operations of the United Nations with a total of 16 members of the Armed Forces. The decision of the Croatian Parliament provided for the possibility of sending members to these additional operations, meaning in South Sudan, Liberia and Cyprus we no longer participated in. And members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia did not participate in them during the reporting period. As of 31 August 2015, 16 members of the Armed Forces participated in these three peace support operations in Lebanon, India, Pakistan and the Western Sahara. Today, 19 of them participate for your information in India and Pakistan 11, West Sahara 1 and 1 are members of Lebanon. In an operation to support the peace of the United Nations, members of the Armed Forces are assigned as military observers, health officers, and liaison officers. The security situation in these areas has been unchanged compared to previous periods of reporting, the level of threats is considered to be medium and, as a medium risk operation, the financial means for participating in the United Nations peace operations were secured in the defence ministry's financial plans for 2014 and total expenditure in the reporting period was 684 thousand and 912 kuna. The United Nations’ financial resources for the United Nations operations in 2015 were also provided in the Financial Plan of the Defence Ministry for 2015 amounting to 2 million and 620 thousand kuna and total expenditures from 1 January to 31 August 2015 amounted to only one million and 75 thousand kuna. Armed Forces confirmed their professional approach to the tasks as always the high reputation of the Armed Forces and were worthy of the Armed Forces and the Republic of Croatia. The third proposal is the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the peace support operations of the United Nations for 2016. This Decision determines that the peace support operations of the United Nations in which members of the Armed Forces will participate and the maximum number of positions that will be able to take place in each individual operation. Members of the Armed Forces in 2016 are directed with the possibility of rotating into the next United Nations peace support operations in Lebanon up to 5 members, in the Western Sahara up to 8 members, in India and Pakistan up to 10 members. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to report by 31 March 2017 this High House on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in peace support operations. The financial resources for the implementation of this Decision will be provided in the State budget for 2016 at the division of the Ministry of Defence in accordance with the envisaged projections of the Ministry of Defence's 2016 financial plan, which would amount to around 2 million and 620 thousand kuna, according to the projection. The President of the Republic also agreed on a proposal for this decision. The 4th item of the agenda is the Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the Peace Support Mission, we call "resolution support" in Afghanistan, some like to call it decisive support. Continuing its participation in this mission, the Republic of Croatia contributes to the preservation of the achievements of the ISAF Operation in the area of stabilisation and security building in Afghanistan with the aim of enabling further transfer of responsibility for the security of Afghanistan to Afghan security and defence forces and in line with the expressed commitment of the Alliance to those objectives. In line with the objective of the operation, the Croatian Contigent has a serious focus on training and development of the capacity of Afghan security forces. It is primarily about the military, police, special forces, significantly supporting the development of the self-sustainability of Afghan security forces and their training for the independent performance of tasks. The Republic of Croatia will continue its engagement as part of this mission in advisory teams to protect advisory teams and Allied installations and in command headquarters. The Republic of Croatia will also consider the possibility of further total numbering reductions in our members, based on progress made on developments in the situation on the ground, allied plans and in parallel with strengthening the capacity of Afghan security forces. Based on the analysis carried out and in order to continue the contribution of Allied efforts in Afghanistan, it is proposed to adopt this decision approving the participation of up to 110 members of the Armed Forces in the Mission to support peace "resolute support" in Afghanistan for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2016. And from 1 July to 31 December 2016 now to 70 members with the possibility... So as you can see, for the next year, we're predicting a reduction, and that reduction may possibly be bigger, everything will depend on the situation on the ground and on a timely agreement with our allies that we're with in the mission, and here it's primarily about the Federal Republic of Germany. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The deployment of members of the Armed Forces in this mission ensures the continuity of the visibility and engagements under NATO's efforts in Afghanistan in line with the conclusions and intentions of NATO's Summit in Wales to contribute directly to the further implementation of our share in building stability in Afghanistan. The funds will also be secured at the position and division of the Ministry of Defence in accordance with the envisaged projections of the Ministry of Defence's Finance Plan and they are foreseen for the total year 2016 in the amount of 72 million kuna and the President of the Republic of Croatia also agreed on the proposal for this decision. As far as the fifth item of the agenda is concerned, it is a proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an operation to support KFOR's peace in Kosovo. There are no changes here, so the Republic of Croatia continues to strongly support NATO's efforts to maintain security in Kosovo. In the area of operation there are 19. The Croatian contingent consists of 22 members of the Armed Forces. According to the operational plan of the operation, tasks, the main force is air transport of people and equipment and logistics support. In addition, as part of a special team of tasks of the Croatian representative, consultation, production and documents in the field of training is part of the task. Further development and the role of KFOR in the Republic of Kosovo will be monitored by adapting tasks to the requirements of the operation, keeping in mind that NATO's mission in the Republic of Kosovo is to maintain a safe and stable environment in which sustainable political solutions for current issues can be found. KFOR also supports the development of professional, democratic, multiethnic, security structures in the Republic of Kosovo and, accordingly, Croatia has demonstrated its commitment to regional stability and the completion of the mission of the operation by sending officers to a senior NATO advisory position to the Kosovo Security Force Liaison and Advisory Team. In this context, in order to continue the engagement so far and to achieve the possibility of extending the contribution to the operation itself, it is proposed to make a decision approving up to 30 members of the Armed Forces to the peacekeeping operation KFOR and two Croatian Air Force helicopters and anti-aircraft defence. On the proposal of this Decision, the President of the Republic gave its agreement and a projection of the financial year 2016 amounting to around 23 million kuna. 6, when we talk about the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, who are headed for NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national, multinational operations command and other activities abroad led by NATO. By entering full membership, the Republic of Croatia's North Atlantic Treaty organisations accepted the obligation to participate in the work of the NATO joint bodies and, above all, in their headquarters and headquarters. NATO's military structure makes NATO the command structure... and NATO the structure of the forces.... On 6 December 2013, the Croatian Parliament decided to refer members of the Armed Forces who are in NATO's command structure, NATO's structure to forces and other national and multinational commands in the operation and other NATO-led activities for 2014, 2015 and 2016. In line with the decision, up to 20 members of the Armed Forces who are working in NATO's command in the field of NATO-led operations can be sent at the same time. Initially, the Croatian share in the command structure included 25+1 leading position of the Brigadier General, which the Republic of Croatia shared with the Republic of Albania on a rotating basis in the Allied Operation Command in.... At the 2010 NATO summit in Lisbon, a new decision was taken to streamline the reform of the command structure, and the Republic of Croatia received 18+1 general position that we shared with the Republic of Slovenia on a two-year rotational basis in the joint command in Naples. Croatia currently fills 18 positions in NATO's command structure in NATO, while in November 2015 we will refer to the post of Brigadier General in Naples as the head of logistics administration. By doing so, our positions to which we have committed ourselves to the alliance will be filled. In addition to NATO's command structure, members of the Armed Forces are also referring to NATO's strength structure and other multinational command. The choice itself and the number of multinational commands that a single NATO member will join has been left to choose the Member State itself. The Republic of Croatia currently in NATO's strength structure fills 7 headquarters positions with a tendency to further increase numerical size. Each ally is expected to participate with adequate and sufficient NATO staff as it is the commands responsible for NATO rapid response rotations in which each NATO member is obliged to participate in certain abilities and forces. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Republic of Croatia, in agreement with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, will refer one headquarters officer to the Allied rapid-action campus, which further strengthens and builds bilateral relations with the country. In line with the commitments made under the NATO summit's preparedness action plan in Wales, NATO's command element in Poland follows. NATO's centre of excellence for counterintelligence affairs in the Republic of Poland and NATO is also planned. A staff officer from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will be sent to all of these Allied elements during the following period. In addition to the already mentioned participation and contribution of the Republic of Croatia, and after... for household by the Supreme Allied Commander for Operations, so-called ..., the North Atlantic Council of NATO decided on 20 March 2014 that a national model of communication for the needs of the alliance would be established in the Republic of Croatia. It is currently the only NATO element in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and is part of NATO's command structure and will be financed accordingly. Under the structure of the number of 56 members of the Armed Forces who can, after reaching full operational capacity, be referred to the NATO area of operations or other activities carried out by NATO. Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who are assigned to NATO headquarters in the command structure, NATO, the structure of forces and other national and multinational commands can be deployed to the area of operation for up to a year during the term of office. From 2014 one headquarters officer was sent from July to December 2014 to the area of the operation... in Afghanistan from NATO's force structure and from NATO's multinational north-east corps located in the Republic of Poland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Due to the formation and functioning of the national decomposition communication module, which we call DSI for NATO's needs, a procedure has been launched for the adoption of a new decision by the Croatian Parliament, which allows for the possibility of increasing the number of members of the Armed Forces compared to the previous decision for 60 members, thus enabling up to 80 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The DSI as a nationally-placed communication model will be located in military Colonel Marko Zivkovic at Ples, where intensive construction works are already being carried out to ensure accommodation facilities for members on schedule in a displaced communication centre. And the last proposal for a decision to refer members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to NATO's command structure, NATO to the structure of forces and other multinational commands of operations and other activities abroad under the leadership of NATO, the implementation of Allied operations and other activities that support the fundamental tasks defined in the strategic concept of the alliance is in the jurisdiction of the federal Operation Command and Allied Transformation Command. All members deployed in NATO structures should be allowed to be referred to NATO operations and other activities abroad in the performance of their tasks. This enables the functioning of NATO's bodies and commands as well as national, multinational commands that the Republic of Croatia has joined to the full extent of their work. It should be pointed out that the Republic of Croatia participates in the decision-making process through the North Atlantic Council of the so-called The NAC on NATO forces' participation in operations as well as in other activities and without Croatia's consent requires a consensus of all nations. NATO cannot launch a specific operation or any other activity that previously requires a national decision, or consensus of all 28 members of the Alliance. We therefore propose a decision whereby members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who are on NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national commands may, if necessary, be referred to operations and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership in 2016 and 17 in the context of tasks carried out in their duties. In operations and other activities under the leadership, up to 80 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia may be referred at the same time and, at the proposal of this decision, the President of the Republic has given its consent. Here was a brief demonstration of what the Ministry of Defence, or the Government is proposing to the Croatian Parliament, and this is about sending members of the operation next year so that the operations can continue uninterrupted and there will be no delays in 2016 in further periods because of the situation in which the Croatian Parliament will not be in session. Thank you for your attention and I am at your disposal for further questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120487	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120488	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. It is becoming more and more certain that peace missions did not take off, even if some of them were taking place in the present seemingly peaceful areas. The safety of our people, our soldiers, is the most important thing every day. The members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were deployed in operations in Lebanon, India and Pakistan and in the Western Sahara, and they did not, although this was made possible by Parliament's decision to participate in southern Sudan, Liberia, Cyprus, in a number significantly less than 19 of those envisaged until 32. Trends in reducing the number of missions in which we participate and the number of members of the Armed Forces in them will not, however, take place in 2016, although so far Croatian soldiers have confirmed themselves as professional and very prominent representatives of their homeland leading to a complete absence. In fact, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia contributed to peace in a multinational environment and gained new experience and knowledge at the same time. Therefore, Croatia will maintain its positions in 2016, i.e. to participate in three peacekeeping missions in India and Pakistan, the Western Sahara and Lebanon, up to 23 members. Thus, the key word security is accompanied by the word responsibility. The 19th Armed Forces Contingent of the Republic of Croatia has been deployed in the areas of NATO's peacekeeping operation in Kosovo. This is the only operation in which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participate with the people with an aircraft technique of 2 helicopters. Their mission is to transport forces, burdens and persons. As it takes place in the immediate neighbourhood of the Republic of Croatia, peace support operations in Kosovo are important, so it is a understandable decision that involves sending up to 35 soldiers, or members. The UN Security Council on 14 December 2014 unanimously adopted the 2189 "Resolution Support" mission, with particular emphasis on the importance of continued international support in stabilising the situation in Afghanistan. The new non-combat NATO mission began on January 1st 2015 to succeed a multi-annual ISAF operation. So not only do we contribute to security in Afghanistan, but also ensure the visibility of NATO engagements in Afghanistan. By entering NATO's full membership, the Republic of Croatia has accepted the obligation both at the headquarters and at headquarters. It is currently 18 positions, and an increase is planned by the end of the year. The decision we are discussing today is possible to increase from 60 members to up to 80 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. We support the importance of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, which, by entering full NATO membership, Croatia has accepted, participation in the work of the NATO joint bodies, first and foremost in the Commandments and Staffs, and at the same time hoping that NATO will never need us as far as we are concerned. NATO summit in Wales in 2014 set up the United High Willing Forces – collective defence as the most modern part of NATO's advanced rapid response force that responds in the situation of sudden threats. In the situation of sudden threats, the Alliance would send the United Nations high preparedness forces to the borders of the alliance, given that they are best prepared for the rapid movement and trained for precisely these tasks with the aim of defending the territory of a Member State. Today's decision should allow such defences not to slow down the long-term peace-making procedures of certain national legislations. The same decision also provides the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with such a possibility of crossing the border quickly. With security and responsibility, we also confirm preparedness with the re-emphasis of ensuring the full security of Croatian soldiers in peacekeeping missions, stressing that the peace engagements of the Republic of Croatia are confirmed as a full member of NATO and the EU as a country with a stable political reputation and military credibility, with one word of reputation. The SDP club supports all those decisions and reports on participation in peacekeeping missions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120489	Thank you very much. Comrade Damir Cain is not present, so his club is losing the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Bozinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120490	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'll say a few words about this subject but in one way I'll try a different way because it seems to me that, and I've already talked about it here, I think there were similar points on the agenda, these questions of sending Croatian soldiers off the border we pay very little attention to, and the debates in the Assembly show one thing I would say a level of maybe misunderstanding about what this is all about. Namely, all these figures we hear are people, and these people we send to peacekeeping missions in operations are except that they fulfil their tasks and source of information on which not only decisions of the executive authority should be based but also discussions in the Croatian Parliament. What am I trying to say? You have two sets of decisions here. On the one hand, a set related to NATO with a focus on rapid action forces, namely the United High Willing Forces, and the other set is related to UN missions. In this first high-prepared United Forces, this is about a long-term NATO policy, the West, relative to the Russian Federation. Because the Ukrainian crisis has just spurred the decisions made, which for many years were considered not to be needed as decisions of the NATO Alliance, and they concern strengthening NATO's role as a collective defence system, and it is important to say that as such, NATO no longer excludes the possibility of conventional war in Europe. These are not topics that should not be of particular interest to the specialized working bodies of the Croatian Parliament where this should be discussed. Therefore, high-prepared forces are a direct attempt to position the alliances according to what happened in Ukraine, to attack the Russian Federation, to hijack part of the territory and to threaten some NATO members, particularly those who are in the Baltic region near the borders of the Russian Federation. Why does it matter? I'm going to give you an example just from this second set of decisions. We have a mission in Lebanon among the decisions to send members of the Armed Forces to the UN mission. There's a decision by the Parliament earlier that five members can be sent down, we've referred 1. Why is Lebanon important? It is a country that is likely to suffer the greatest pressure from Syrian refugees with Turkey at the moment. Have we, as a state structure, shown our understanding of all that is happening in Lebanon? And we've got our men down there. Did they come to the Croatian Parliament for debrief? Were we able to countercipe any events? At this point in Lebanon there are more than a million, there are different data, 1 million and 200 to 1 million and 400 thousand refugees from Syria alone. UNHCR estimates by the end of the year are talking about 1 million and 800 thousand, so an increase of 400 thousand. The Lebanese government has made the decision to make it difficult for them, so Syrian refugees to make it harder to enter Lebanon because they no longer have the capacity to receive them. Where will these presumed 400,000 new Syrian refugees end up? Where did these boredom end up? And where do they end up? So these are issues which are very legitimate and necessary for discussion in the Croatian Parliament but it will not be asked itself on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament until the working bodies first and foremost of the Croatian Parliament begin to discuss them on the basis of analytical bases and thus become involved in everything that happens because you see how and when we have discussed the deployment of forces or members of the Armed Forces in Lebanon, no one has discussed that this crisis can be shed until the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, this first part of which I was talking about, and today no one or insufficiently Anticipated as a legislative body, as a body that needs to be performed and controlled by the executive authority, which means and in which direction they can lead decisions related to the combined high preparedness forces, is our job, it is the work of the Croatian Parliament and not to be found. We don't have a lot of resources, we can't in most cases act and influence what happens on the ground especially in the Middle East but we have people and we can strengthen. I am now calling on the Ministry of Defence and the Government to consider that this five-man contingent that we can send to a mission in Lebanon is increasing because we will need their reports, they have this part in the tasks of UNIFIL and UNIFIL, in fact, in Lebanon except for maintaining peace, and an increasingly important part of their job is aid in the humanitarian crisis, aid to refugees. So we have one legal, legitimate channel for information. I have no doubt that the Ministry of Defence has them but it is not the job of the Ministry of Defence that is the job of all institutions and the Croatian Parliament. Only then can we competently discuss some things. So every involvement of members of the Armed Forces here we talk about them beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia through the structures of the EU, through the structures of NATO, of course we need to support, but we need to start doing what other countries are doing, and that is that feedback that is that feedback that will be an integral part of our thinking, our future decisions and the positioning of the Republic of Croatia on certain issues. The refugee crisis, Lebanon, our participation there you can see that within a few days things can be brought to the border and across the borders of the Republic of Croatia. That is why I call on the leadership of the Parliament both in this and in the future to pay particular attention to these issues because they are much more important than they seem at first sight. The HDZ Club will, of course, support these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120491	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120492	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, Honorable Representatives and Representatives of the HDSSB Club supported all these proposals on the board, so we are so consensual and we will support them and plenaryly not to elaborate them again. What's interesting here is certainly interesting that aspect of what counterpart Bozinovic mentioned earlier. It is almost an amazing situation in which the representatives of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia say they do not know how many inflows of refugees are towards certain border crossings in the Republic of Croatia because they say it is a hilly terrain, so I cannot see how many are coming on the other side. I think the Republic of Croatia, as far as I know, has all the systems of both intelligence and anti-intelligence intelligence, both civil and military, has ambassadors in all states and all the services, there are as many in Turkey as I know and military envoys, so there are people who should be in charge of the difolt, among other things, and what the colleague was saying, is actually part of the job description of the open source allowed to collect information and to deliver that information to the competent state authorities. This competent state of the body shall filter this information and, in fact, quality further filtered send to those who are the ultimate objectives of this information, which should base such information on both operational and enforcement strategies or tactical decisions in certain situations or in certain processes that take place. Obviously someone in that chain actually schedules and the Republic of Croatia faces processes and events practically ad hoc is this with processes that continue in the Middle East, which will continue to take place in the months that are coming and where, of course, Croatia is not and cannot be the one that will create these processes to a more important extent but can think and think and cooperate, look for cooperation processes with countries in the environment that seem to be something to make up for in a quality way, and so that the Republic of Croatia in events that occur as little problems as possible. It is almost incredible that in the situation of the refugee crisis, the Republic of Croatia faces the emergence of conflicting relations with neighbours in the environment. So instead of looking for ways to overcome the situation that we're in, we're actually creating additional conflicts with those same neighbors, and without those neighbours, we can't possibly solve these problems however we turn. So we're not an island, we haven't fallen from Mars, we haven't created these problems, but only in cooperation with those neighbours can we solve them together and no different. When it comes to these rapid action forces and accepting and granting approval or consent to move and move across the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Defence of Assistants did not have a very clear explanation or gave the clearest explanation of what this would apply to and what a legal framework would be, if such situations arise, and whether at all more in the event of the movement of such forces through the Republic of Croatia through the territory of those forces or the necessary equipment would require more consent of the Croatian Parliament or the adoption of this decision would be sufficient legal basis for these movements to take place. In any case, only the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the peacekeeping members in the peacekeeping missions and NATO and the UN was certainly in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, we support this way of participation further. These members generally bring and spread a positive picture of the Republic of Croatia and this Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces have quite well managed to solve all the technical problems encountered in certain contingents and situations. And it is good for the Republic of Croatia to participate in command structures as much as possible so that members of the armed forces continue to develop their abilities and in some ways promote the Republic of Croatia. And we believe that given the good results they achieve, there will be even more space in the future for the members of the armed forces to find their place more and more in the different structures of the NATO alliance. But this aspect of strategic thinking, especially when it comes to the circulation of information on the gathering of all the necessary information, their distribution, analysts, and finally let's say that I think that it's either not done well enough or those who get that information don't use it to make the right decisions. Something in any case because this level of swelling with the state of the Republic of Croatia is at the very least remaining amazing. The HDSSB Club will accept these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120493	Thank you very much. And the final presentation of Deputy Defence Minister Mrs. Vishnja Tafre.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120494	Honorable MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to thank you for the support you have provided for our proposals, thank you for that. I also thank you for pointing out to us as the Department of Defense what you think we are possibly not doing enough. There have also been a few critical references here to the fact that we should have had a return request from you as Parliamentarians, and we hope that this will be in the future. When asked by Mr. Djurovic about whether the Ministry of Defence has timely information, so I can't be the lawyer of the MUP here today who is the holder of the situation that has appeared with the refugees, but on behalf of the Ministry of Defence, I can tell you that everything you've asked, and it refers to the way information goes through the Defense Ministry channels, I can responsibly tell you that I get it from people who are in areas where it would be the source of that information. Of course, as such, we can't share them with the Croatian public every day, but every morning until 9:00, I get reports that refer to what would possibly be problematic in the situation in which Croatia is concerned by the refugee crisis itself. What I can only tell you is that different interpretations of the role of the Croatian Army and the Armed Forces have occurred in this refugee crisis. What the Ministry of Defence has resorted to is what the Constitution and the Law on Defence enables them to do, and that means applying Article 64 where members of the Armed Forces can be helping civil institutions solve this refugee crisis and we do it daily. Speculations that have occurred in the media about whether the Armed Forces should be put on alert, you believe as well as I do know that the Defence Act defines how and how the Armed Forces can be put on alert in any way. This certainly this extraordinary situation such as the situation where refugees are concerned is not. So the preparedness of the Armed Forces only goes in a situation when it comes to immediate threat and war, and in this situation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may ask the President of the Republic of Croatia to put the Armed Forces on alert. This does not mean, however, that we did not engage exactly in the way I told you and that means helping civil institutions. And here I am today, here I have a report on how many members of the Armed Forces have been hired, but in that task let's call it "the peacetime" quotes. So we are currently at the request of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue means we have 10 members of the Croatian Land Army who are located with a truck for the purposes of the work of the National Protection and Rescue Authority, you also saw that we have installed and installed tents in Opatovac. Two of our medical teams conducted the health care of refugees and migrants in the Opatovac tent settlement while three health teams were stationed at the Military 5th Guard Brigade in Vinkovci. Members of the Battle for Biological Chemical, are engaged in the conduct of the hygiene shower of refugees and migrants, on the activities of 21 members with 2 systems, decontamination stations, one water tank and 5 motor vehicles. Similarly, our members by individual units that I do not list here are not in a state of readiness but in a state of readiness to continue to be available to civil institutions and the possibility of receiving them. Also in our facilities are the 319 members of the police officers of the MUP in the 5th Guard Brigade and in Đakov there are 100 members of the Ministry of the Interior who are working on it. I am taking this opportunity today, since I believe that in this session of the Parliament today it is my address to thank all parliamentary deputies and MPs for constructive cooperation, to thank all the committees that participated in the work and to assist the Ministry of Defence in this past period, for the term of office of this government I believe we are working successfully. I think I share the opinion of most of you that our cooperation has been extremely good. I would particularly like to mention this cooperation with the Defence Committee, which has been at a much higher level during this term of office. I think we have achieved exceptional cooperation and that we are on joint projects where the Ministry of Defence has proved to be open and transparent all of its projects and all of what the Ministry of Defence has done in these past names 3 almost under the age of 4 has been presented to the Croatian Parliament. That it is possible for me to accept more here the proposal of a respected colleague of Bozinovic that interaction should be stronger and stronger for sure that it should be and I hope that it will be in some future period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120495	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the decisions and reports on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120496	Proposal for a decision to cross the border of the Republic of Croatia Armed Forces of the NATO Member States and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia engaged in the Joint High Willing Force for the Rapid Response of NATO. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision and I am stressing. In order to make this decision, the majority of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament are required in accordance with Article 7(6). Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. at least 76 votes. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 103 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 4 votes against decisions taken to cross the border of the Republic of Croatia, etc. how I read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120569	And today we will discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910 – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP; You have adopted the proposal. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. And the proposal will be explained by a colleague named Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120570	Thank you, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Article 9 The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament stipulates that voters and political parties should not run for persons who have been sentenced to an unconditional sentence of imprisonment for a period of more than 6 months, if the decision to call the elections is imposed or its execution is yet to take place at the time of entry into force. Also, voters and political parties are not allowed to run for persons who, at the time of the entry into force of the decision to call the elections, have not passed the rehabilitation deadlines under a special law which have been convicted of the offences referred to in Chapter 9. Criminal law such as genocide, crime of aggression, crime against humanity, war crime, terrorism, terrorist society, torture and slavery. For a crime in Chapter 10. Penalty law and it's a serious murder. And for the crime of Chapter 28. Criminal law against official duty abuse of position and authority. In order to liven up that provision of the Law on Elections of Representatives, it was necessary to intervene in the law on the legal consequences of the conviction and to provide for mechanisms for the implementation of earlier convictions during the application procedure. The SDP representative club proposes the adoption of this law in order to regulate the way in which previous convictions will be checked in the criminal record in two ways. The first is that, from the moment of opening the procedure, the candidates will have the opportunity to speed up their choices, through municipal courts and the Ministry of Justice, to obtain official corrections resulting from their status, i.e. through municipal courts, to verify whether they are in criminal records, or if they are located by the Ministry of Justice, they will receive the exact information on which the offences are brought into that register so that the State Election Commission can then determine whether they meet or not the conditions which make it impossible to run in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Elections of Representatives. In addition, the State Election Commission will at the same time be able to carry out only criminal records and, where appropriate, to those persons who do not deliver the certificate, to determine whether they are covered by the application of the cited law, i.e. the cited provisions of the Law on Elections of Representatives. We believe that in this way we have ensured the effective and effective implementation of the Law on Elections of Representatives, or that we have in this way provided control mechanisms that will not additionally burden the electoral process and participants in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120571	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. A colleague, Slavko Linic. He's not there. The club loses the right to debate on this wheel. And colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120572	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. This bill of law, as you have just heard from Mr Peđa Grbin, who spoke on behalf of the promoter of the SDP Club of Representatives, is actually bringing to life the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, which has therefore changed this law, complemented it by a provision that persons who are legally convicted of certain crimes, criminal offences in Chapter 9 of the Criminal Code, so against humanity and human dignity, genocide, crime of aggression, crime against humanity, etc. and the offences referred to in Chapter 10, the offences against life and the body, and the serious murder and the offences of Chapter 23 of the Penal Code against official duty and abuse of office and authority. In such a way, until these persons are rehabilitated under existing rules cannot deal with politics, they cannot be run for Parliament as candidates. In this way, we believe that politics itself will be rehabilitated because, otherwise, it has threatened to simply be rehabilitated from that morale, and trust in all politicians is therefore very important, regardless of which party it belonged, to fight for the purity of political action. Therefore, this bill speaks deeply of the changes I have just mentioned about how it is necessary to rehabilitate politics, how the issue of morality in politics and principles of action is very important. We simply want to remove at all the possibility that someone is because this is the first ultimately move, the first step to remove all those who step into politics to represent their own interests, their own interests, their group interests or any other group. What I want here to say on behalf of the SDP Club is particularly apostrophe, which of course is not covered by this but we can go one step further in our actions. What about the people that are being investigated, who are being prosecuted? Are they in any way a recommendation for political action? Unfortunately, such examples have been so far. It will be seen well in these elections how seriously the political parties take this bill and how democratic they are, in essence, because democracy is not only an outing of elections but a strong confidence in the institutions. You need to be honest and say that no investigation, no indictment is evidence of guilt. We all know that the court decides on this procedure, and only when it is a decision of power can we say that such a person is guilty. That's what this bill is about. But democracy also means a relationship in society, an open conversation, but what is more important is democratic institutions. If the institutions of the politicians themselves are the duty of all of us in politics to raise citizens' confidence in institutions rather than to lower. But statements, public statements by political actors that are starting to denunciate some of the decisions and actions of the highest institutions in the Republic of Croatia are already a condemnation. What I'm saying is, just as far as this law is concerned, the conduct of investigations, the prosecutions are the burden of a particular person, but such a suspicion that is a serious doubt, which is not some public conversation of the wicked of some media or political rivals or competitors, but rather certain institutions. So, if that was the custom so far, let's look back at Europe a little bit, other countries that we often like to compare with, so please find a politician besides Berlusconi who passed the law to step up all charges against him. Europe has unfortunately reacted but not strongly enough, which has certainly reversed the confidence in the judiciary across Europe especially in the country. Therefore, let us set a model for us, we support this bill, let us set the example of acting by law, but even more so than we all advocate the purity of political action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120573	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120574	Thank you. To us in principle, I would agree with you on these worldly concepts of justice, justice, good and bad. But let's go back to the technical aspect of whether this proposal of yours means that all those on the candidate lists should go to the Municipal Court and ask for confirmation of impunity or not. If they're not in the process, if that means it means something to me, I think it's just another bother to all those who are in this process because a colleague before you said on behalf of the promoter that he could check the DIP. I don't understand why municipal and city election committees and county councils, I think there are a lot of them in these commissions have a good fee. Well, wouldn't they be able to do something like check out those candidate lists in their county or I don't know election units where we always have to send people to walk. I mean, as a rule, I don't expect individuals like that to be on those lists at all. So, 99% or 100% of the people who will go after confirmation to prove they're not punished for, I don't know about war crimes or serious murder and that they're not in rehab. Do we really have to send a few thousand people to the courts to get your pilgrimages to confirm that they are not how you said some criminals who are going to pollute politics in Croatia? If there's no way, that's what I was finally going to say, actually, that, in fact, that legal provision actually implements election committees at lower levels. It doesn't have to be the State Election Commission. But whether it's going to happen in practice like that or in practice, all people will have to go after confirmation. What's your plan as a proposing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120575	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120576	That's what the law says. It says in Inpersonal form you can. That's exactly what you're about to say that doesn't rule out and that goes away alone. But it kind of bothered me that you're saying some kind of criminal. The criminal is a criminal, there aren't any of them or any of them. There are crimes like this and things like that. Therefore, there is no need to put this attempt on its own, or proposal, and I believe that you will vote for it as well. After all, he is only operationalising the Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120577	We don't have any more logs. Is there a need for a fellow coat of arms? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Friday. My colleagues and colleagues, we will continue the session tomorrow at 9:00. From 9 to 9.30 we have free time for clubs that want to talk to the public. At 9.30 we will begin with the Proposal for a Decision to set up a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. Thank you very much. Goodbye! Session interrupted at 1600 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-23-0.u120578	Final draft law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910 – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 29 votes against Law P.Z. No. 910 in the text as proposed by the applicant.
