ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98214	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. We will discuss: - Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make notice of the intention to grant concessions and award concessions on the maritime good for the purpose of building and economic use of the beach in part K.O. Brašina, and for the purpose of realising the Tourist Development project Kukari, at the location of Kukari I. in the Municipality of Župa dubrovacka. The motion for a decision is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 20 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on maritime good and seaports. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply when making a decision. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Zdenko Antešić Deputy Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98215	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. This Decision gives consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of giving a concession and awarding a concession on maritime goods for the purpose of building and economic use of the beach in part K.O. Brašina, and for the purpose of realising the Tourist Development project Kukari, at the location of Kukari I. in the Municipality of Župa dubrovacka. At its meeting on 25 September 2014 the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided on the setting of conditions and the publication of a public invitation to supply binding offers for the realization of the tourist development project Kukara in the Municipality of Župa dubrovačka, where the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure is tasked with launching the procedure for the implementation of the Croatian Assembly's consent to the concession for the purpose of building and economic use of the beach in part of K.O. Brashina, for up to 99 years. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on maritime goods and seaports is prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia provides a concession covering the construction of new buildings of importance for the Republic of Croatia requiring large investments and that the overall economic effects cannot be achieved within 50 years, with the consent of the Croatian Parliament. Tourist development project Kukari on the location of Kukari I. will be implemented in part of the complex of the former Military resort Kukari on real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, real estate owned by the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik, co-owned by the Republic of Croatia and third parties, which will be owned for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, and land particles registered as maritime goods, which should be subject to concession for the purpose of building and use of the beach. The location of Kukari I. includes five hotels together with the belonging facilities located directly along the seashore of hotels Grand, Pellegrin, Kukari, Goričina I. and Goričina II., currently not in function. The total hotel accommodation capacity was 1626 beds. All facilities are in a very bad break and require significant investment. Realisation of the project assumes several regimes of property concessions, the establishment of building rights, the lease on cultural goods like Hotel Grand, as well as the use of maritime goods through a beach concession all within a unique 99-year deadline. Interested investors will be invited to submit binding offers by publication of a unique public call for the delivery of binding offers for the realisation of the Tourist Development project Kukari in the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik, which will include a public invitation to collect offers for the award of concessions on maritime goods for the purpose of building and economic use of the beach. Total investment in the entire project is estimated between 100m and 250m euros and is based on a minimum investment of 100 000 euros per unit of accommodation. For the realisation of the project, construction and categorisation of the hotel, a period of 48 months has been set which starts with the day of power of building permit allowing construction until the deadline for preparing the project's implementation including the outcome of a local or construction permit cannot be longer than 12 months starting from the date of conclusion of the contract and the implementation of the project. In the area of maritime goods borders in question, it was established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the determination of the maritime goods border in the part of the Catastrian Municipality of Brashin and are based on the same land particles of 2344, 2343 and 2345/1 of Brashina Community registered as good in the land book. Guidelines for determining the scope and content of the concession on the maritime good within the Tourist Development Project Kukari were established by the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik on the acceptance of the decision to alienate the maritime goods zone within the catering and tourist zone outside the town of Kukari I, as well as the methods and conditions of the same, as of 8 December 2014 was adopted at the 12th session of the municipal council held on 8 December 2014. In accordance with the analysis of the maritime goods zone within the hospitality and tourist zone of the Kukari I. maritime goods which are subject to concession are divided into zones and for each zone is prescribed purpose and possible content per zone as well as bathing limits. The beach provides for the setting of Pontonic platforms, sunspots, sea polygons with facilities for children, facilities for children on land, swimming pools, sanitary knots and sports and catering facilities. In the smaller part of the range of concessions in zone 5, the possibility of shutting down part of the beach from the general use is provided exclusively on the land part of the beach and in a way that is not impossible to access the sea or pass by the sea. The area given in the concession provides for the setting of two seats for vessels, both surfaces of cca. a thousand and a half square meters and pontonic berths for vessels all outside the protected part of the beach. The beach is forecasted in four zones on a surface of 2024 m square and for the return of the beach to the original state with the duty of later maintenance as part of the regular... The total surface area of maritime goods to be given in a concession under the Kukara tourist development project is 78 thousand 834.64 square meters, of which the surface area of the land part is 32 thousand 545 meters and the area of the aquatoria is 46 thousand 286 square meters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Within the scope of the areas given in the concession, there is an open port for the public transport of local importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98216	I thank the Deputy Minister. We have one replica. Dear Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98217	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, I must admit I was very pleased when this topic, this item, was placed on the agenda, however, when I looked a little better at these materials that were next to this point, I was uncomfortable with the fact that you are today referring to the properties that are the subject of this concession especially when it comes to maritime good and that there have not been any notes taken from these properties. When I took a closer look at what kind of notes they are in, and you can very easily check it out, it takes the court seven months to take down one note that hasn't been solved on all these properties that are subject to concession on the maritime good. Therefore, you come here before, to the Croatian Assembly with a request, for concession, for concession consent, on properties that are not until the end clean. When we talk about the properties that are co-owned by the Republic of Croatia and private persons, then you can see that there are 51 co-owners on these properties and that these properties have not yet started the extradition procedure. And I see it as a serious problem. If you predict such a million-dollar investment, capital investment without being pure real estate, then the question is, who are you going to report to this contest? Those are serious questions. Unfortunately, the approach is very superficial and very bad. And I think that this is how the Croatian Parliament is underestimated when with unclean real estate, i.e. with the properties that they have or at least still present the burdens are coming and looking for concessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98218	Deputy, will you answer? The answer to the replica Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98219	Thank you very much. Madam MPs, you are certainly right, so there are notes, however, you also know very well that ownership on the maritime good actually in the very sense of the problem does not exist. And DUDI in the process, so DUDI, our Office for State Property Management will definitely go into clearing these relations before any relationship with a potential concessionary, or conclusion of the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98220	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Respected Nada Turina-Đurić, Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98221	Dear Mr. Vice President, Deputy Associates. The Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee unanimously supported this proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of awarding concessions in the area of Cooper. What I would just like to stress here is that the committee is in the debate and, after the debate, I would like to propose an amendment. So the decision that's in the proposal is that the concession is given for 99 years. The Committee suggests that this should be changed up to 99 years in order for the tendering conditions and for tenders to be more flexible, that is to say, an offer which will determine a shorter period of time in which the concession in the space in question will be realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98222	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of independent representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, the respected representative Slavko Linic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98223	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Our club will also support the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government to make a notification of the intention to grant a concession. As well as the board, we propose an amendment not to write from 99 years of age but to 99 years of age. And this comes from the very reason of the Croatian government that says the investment can be from 100m euros to 250m euros and if it is 250m euros in investment then it is apparent that it will take 99 years but if it is 100 it will still be slightly lower and probably more than 50. Therefore, flexibility to decide the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And in essence there should be nothing more to say about making this decision, but we should essentially say on this decision what is the efficiency of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The worst data in the Croatian economy is recorded by the construction sector. There is nothing to do, most of them who have managed to restructure leaving Croatia and working in Europe have managed to successfully break through. Let's just remember the Dalekvod that went through in Croatia, in conflict with certain judges of the trade court, and today is one of the most successful European companies in investment. But there are no jobs in Croatia, no jobs in Croatia. Then we go back and remember what Dubrovnik is, which has happened in the last 20 years in Dubrovnik. Boom in investment in hotel facilities. But who, fortunately the private sector. But then we can compare the state's relationship to its property. Huge investment in Dubrovnik hotels. Dubrovnik is a world destination. A huge number of guests are coming, the private sector has managed to slowly start returning funds and considering further investment. And there were no problems and if there were any problems and property and I would say problems with licenses, problems with the administration that interfered in all kinds of ways and tried to disable the private investment sector, they all won it. This is proof of how responsible the private sector is and how interested it is when it sees the possibility of investment, and in cost-effective investments. And now let's turn around and see how the state behaves. The most beautiful destination in the quality of hotel accommodation were Kukari, the most beautiful. Although I'd say military facilities, but they were famous in Europe. Destroyed during the aggression on Croatia and then abandoned, mocked, mocked. No investment, no thinking. I'm not talking about the failures of all governments, I'm talking about this government, this is the fourth year of office. Military facilities dedicated to DUDI management. And now what can we figure out? Is this investment even going on in the next three years? The answer isn't. No, for the simple reason that property relations are completely unsolved. Totally. State, local self-government, private sector, completely unsolved. True, we have passed some kind of investment law, as they are called, strategic investments, but I have not seen here in the program that we are going to use this law to make a decision overnight, so we will eventually try to resolve something if it's not quick. We don't have that program, we don't see that. We're wondering why it wasn't done until today, why. The law was passed two years ago. Why according to this law this most beautiful location, I would say this interesting location for increasing accommodation capacity 1600 beds have once been in Kukari, the top 5 star category. So we haven't used the law, we haven't seriously prepared ourselves, and that's a very clear message, there's no way to get into it at all. I don't see that it's a good idea because we're going to drag serious investors again, and we're going to send a message to investors that we're not prepared for these big competitions. We're not prepared. That's something that we're wondering if there's even a proposal that's a serious suggestion ahead of us. If we estimate that investments will not be able to be launched within the next 3 years because of non-administrative obstacles we have not solved and which in this election year will not be able to resolve, they will not. Because no one will dare make any decisions, except because the courts will simply be in that section in the right way, but the interference will require compliance with all the necessary laws. And then we wonder why construction doesn't have economic activity, why there's no job. Do we then wonder why our taxes are too high, why only on the tax side are made solutions when we show that we are unable to manage the most valuable resources of the Republic of Croatia, which are a huge number of non-functionable properties that could in any way contribute to economic growth. Are we surprised then that this same government was against the Law on Taxation of Property or Real Estates because that law provided that the State would also pay taxes on all non-functional properties and on these destroyed properties, only to make it more responsible for managing the resources called assets. And as much as my colleague pointed out, it's a pleasure that we can finally talk to a big project like this, we're so confident that it's a project that can't be implemented, that it's a competition that's not smart to call. It's not smart because we haven't prepared it, and we're afraid we won't have it in the last year. In that I'd say consider whether or not to accept, we'll still give consent so let the government does. Perhaps the government would just be instructed to try on a series of exceptions, but a serious team that would work on using these Investment Encouragements to sort of speed up the whole procedure and the whole process. I think it is possible, that it is possible for the Act of Extortion to take over property, and then try to subsequently provide all private owners with fair compensation and thus to hire the construction of the Republic of Croatia and start jobs. Because if we did that, we'd be aware of the government's projection that this year with a million 340 thousand employees, we might not be so black. With a million and 300 thousand employees in Croatia, we will not solve our permanent problems in the pension system or in the health system. I conclude that we will support the proposal, but we appreciate that in addition to the political message, the electoral message does not experience a serious project by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it bothers us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98224	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98225	Dear colleague Linic, that we will support this law with the skepticism. You've opened up a series of questions in your debate. One very important and encouraging thing is Dubrovnik itself, which you said world destination and investment in Dubrovnik hotels say that there are interested in Croatia, there are interested in investment. You said the private sector was acting responsibly. I'd say interested, and the government's acting uninterested, and then it means as soon as it's uninterested to make investments or to invest on its own means it's irresponsible. On the Croatian coast, but in all of Croatia there is an incredible number of abandoned objects that would be put into operation, and not only the problem of this government, but all of the governments so far. But I'm sure we should discuss this, because it's already the fourth year of office. If the Government had taken a responsible and interested approach to solving these problems by putting these objects into operation, surely, that what is most important in order to employ more people, and you were talking about a million and three hundred thousand employees who will certainly not solve it. Because it's more or soon there will be more pensioners than it is employed which is impossible to maintain that balance. The basic question is, are we able to manage this wealth? And then come those who say the state is unable to manage. She's capable of having a capable government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98226	Replication response, Reverend Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98227	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We are constantly leading the controversy of whether there are a large number of public sector employees in the administration. When we look at what's been done over the last three years on asset management, we would conclude that we don't have enough people and that we need more people, because this is an unprepared project that goes into procedure. But there are a number of practices from Croatia itself. I always go back to Croatia. You know, somewhere in 2000, a part of military facilities was formed into a company, so we formed a company in which companies were directly interested in trying to restore, manage and privatise. So these are also models that this government has not used. Anyway, if you've been to the Coopers, that's awesome and horrible. No one was guarding, no one was present, even the devastated objects should be kept away from happening. Thus, a series of possibilities that someone in the last three years could have seriously caught up with work and done business. We're just wondering where's the responsibility? Which ministry was it supposed to be? Yeah, we reorganized the fund, so we got DUDI, then CERRP, etc. But no responsible behavior, and nowhere would I say the measures we could have taken. It could have been a company, if it had been a company employed by a couple of people today we had solved property-legal relations, probably environmental protection projects and everything else to be done. We would have a project that we can very expensively offer to future performers, and this is how I fear we will not achieve full effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98228	The replica of the esteemed Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98229	Dear fellow Linic, you said our construction sector is in crisis, which is correct. Unemployment is high, we have a tourism sector that is so mediocre in terms of other countries, we have these beautiful Coopers that have been devastated since '91. A year. In 2011, the government already started making moves about the Coopers. Now it's 2015 and we're revolving around property-legal relations it's a miracle one. I think we're weirding the beak on this planet as a country, like a state administration that can't solve in five years of property-legal relations. So, we've passed the strategic investment laws. We brought it in recently, last year we passed the Act of Exclusion. There we argued about how this law was passed as effectively as possible and how fast it was to exercise authority. The expropriation on these properties didn't even begin, because if it had started then it would have been recorded. So this is 2015. Last year, the prime minister at the government said in 2016 we'll put them in place, we'll start with the Coopers, we'll start with an investment, we'll start putting them into office. It's 2015 next year, there's no way with this kind of work, with this kind of approach to anything happening to the Coopers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98230	Answer, Reverend Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98231	I agree with you that this will be a long-term process. I remember one example, Zagreb's HUP, which went into investment very close to Kupar, seven years failed to resolve property-legal relations or get permission to tear down an old facility and at the same locations and Gabarites get another. I must say, some ministers in today's government were very critical. Why? As in privatisation, they got the facility so they thought they got it on a gift, so they were angry because they got loans at HBOR. So we're very fiercely criticizing entrepreneurs who are tormenting with the administration just like this. For seven years, seven years, they haven't been able to solve everything they need to solve. At the end of the year, the Zagreb-based HUP will finally be able to function in all these facilities. But it's a message as long as it takes, you know what it means when a private man fought for seven years, how long it'll take for the administration to solve it. And my opinion is that we should speed up we should form a company in the establishment and that serious people are professionally working 24 hours on this project and maybe we'll speed up something. Those are the solutions I expected to read here, but unfortunately they're not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98232	A new replica, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98233	Thank you very much. I agree with you that this proposal should be supported, I agree with you also in the conclusion that in this year which is the last, which election will be difficult to run more anything and that is the fact. She's political and she's experienced and there's no doubt about it. But now I wonder why the government has not continued to implement the projects that have been prepared. I have here a contract for the Brijuni Riviera project, signed at the end of July 2011. So the government, Istrian County, the city of Pula, Vodnjan, Fažana and Brijuni Riviera. This is a project that was prepared. So far, at least I haven't heard a word of it, about what's going on with some new riots. You were also a beautiful part of that time in the government, probably getting to know each other. So why did such projects not continue, or continue to work on such projects? You will all remember this project because when we signed that contract on Brijuni, the link broke between Mr. Jakovic and Mr. Milanovic. It was a great dispute, a matter of great persuasion. We also signed an agreement on building a pulse hospital. Here we see only now the prime minister with his associates was at the beginning of the opening of the works. So, it's something that is generally the pain of Croatian politics that always those who come think that they started counting the time and that everything they did last government was wrong, that everything needs to be gone and started over again. And one of the reasons why we're here and why we're unhappy is that everyone thinks the world starts with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98234	Replication response, Reverend Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98235	I completely agree with my colleague Kosor, yes, and that project was needed. We could list some more where it was simply necessary to speed up especially in hotel business part of the privatisation of completely failed state-owned companies. Why? Because that's when the private sector invests. And there is no justification for that because that's how jobs are opened and that's how the construction sector is taken care of which I would say investment in business spaces in major cities in Croatia should go to the destinations of quality hotel facilities 5 or 4 stars. Because the Brijuni project had just as much as I would say investment in another Croatian destination. Besides Dubrovnik, it's Istria. Unfortunately, that's not there and that's what's the biggest problem of this government. Incomes that could have been achieved with asset management, economic growth. Because like me, we'd always say economists used to argue whether it was a private investment or a state investment. But regardless, so much property is owned that both state investment and investment in state assets can have a significant impact on economic growth. It's gone, and as you can see, now it's trying with these motions to at least send a message that something is going to run.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98236	Followed by a replica of the esteemed John Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98237	Thank you very much. A fellow Linic one can say that a completely undetected statement by the minister of justice was made when he proposed one law that only 18% of the owners in the garnery were registered through the OIB, only 18%. The second thing is, we can't figure out that successful investments require teamwork. You can't keep somebody in state institutions planting their feet for one reason or another, so we can get to the investment. However, what is crucial in the topic we are talking about today, which is the ownership of strong economic properties in the MRLs. And you know well until there was no agreement that no one should touch you, let alone speak of them. And as for the management of these properties, those hotels that were at least supposed to work, especially that famous Adriatic Club or whatever it's called, but save me from it, God. So, I think that today's topic of concession is in principle opening up a completely different question of why there are no investments in Croatia. We, regardless of what is said that today in DUDI, everything is put in one place to be seen, it's simply not true. Over 100 non-military economic facilities are owned by the MORH. I must say that the current deputy minister made a great deal of effort then with the government to at least record the situation, and to get rid of the property, we are far from it. And now there is one question, if we are prepared in one case to pass certain laws and the right to concession if we do not have resolved property relations instead of forcing institutions to agree on these papers, the question of whether Croatia will ever have complex papers. But I repeat, it's been undetected that only 18% of the owners are registered through the OIB.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98238	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98239	25 years of Croatia, and now I'm asking you, is 25 years enough to take care of land books? And then when we get back to the distant past, then we'll see that European countries with pencils and paper, with pencils and paper not with computers, have solved it in ten years. And when Europe's great aid came after Croatia's recognition, it mostly came to sort out land books because it is one of the most important points of investment security for economic growth. Unfortunately, we've all been surprised for 10 years, so that's too long. 25 years of Croatia we haven't solved the books, we haven't, only 18% through the OIB. Unfortunately, it is the efficiency of the Croatian administration, whether there are many, whether there are few, the smallest problem. If the land books had been solved, no one would have said there were many, they were efficient and fast. Unfortunately, we can't confirm that, and that's our biggest problem. And I agree with you, management by the state, so let's just remind ourselves of a series of hotels in Dalmatia are in the hands of the state. It's only now that we privatized them with a pre-fashion deal that we see new owners, capitalization, we see investment, we see the rising of stars, which unfortunately in state hands, we didn't have any political governance. This was a direct damage to local self-government and individual destinations. So I always consider every management very brief and instantaneous. Most to prepare the project and privatize.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98240	The last replica of the esteemed Vesna Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98241	Dear Mr. Linic, just one brief concord, actually. In fact, in your presentation you managed to resolve my dilemma because in the material I found an interesting sentence that it was an unspectived state property. We remember a dozen years ago, it started with a great deal of unspective footage, and yesterday we heard a lot about taking care of unspective personnel and twenty, thirty years old. I mean, I absolutely agree with your debate, of course, and the fact that in these 25 years, it's actually a question of whether it was an ineffectiveness of the administration, whether it was just a bureaucratic obstacle, or whether it was actually a matter of deliberately destroying the state property and devasting it to be easily converted into private property. Protecting it is only an effective reform of the judiciary. And all of these problems will be resolved only if we reform the judiciary very quickly and efficiently, which this government has begun and we hope that it will very soon end these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98242	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98243	It's not just unperspective property, look at the materials, 800 employees worked at those 800 hotels annually. We're not going to talk about how many additional private companies have been involved in supplying, laundry, maintenance, that's a huge number of jobs that we just haven't put into operation. Therefore, it is the greatest responsibility. Look, justice reform is long, I'm afraid it'll take a long time. And let's be honest, just the moment when you don't like paying faster and more efficient work and action. So let's try to get back to taxing real estate. So whoever has the property has a function, lives, has a very low tax in it. But like this, when you show irresponsibility to your property, high taxes. And MORH was supposed to pay taxes and DUDI had to pay taxes. You know what, we'd settle our problems overnight. So, I agree the permanent solution is the judiciary but it will be a long-term process. Taxes can be brought in and collected in a year. Be assured it will raise the efficiency of all parts of the administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98244	Thank you. Club Grubisic and Cain's independent representatives also signed up, there are neither. They're losing their right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98245	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Deputy Deputy Minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will also support the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make notice of the intention to grant a concession and award a concession on the maritime good. But as my colleague Linic said earlier, this agreement is given exclusively to give political political support to the resolution of this very important tourist project in the Republic of Croatia, which is also covered by the Tourism Development Strategy by 2020. But with all those fences that we have heard so far in the debate, which relate to unresolved property legal relations on certain particles found within the scope of the Kukari 1 project, we will list from the Croatian Democratic Community club a few more reasons that suggest that the government entered this project in a creamy way. First of all, Mr. Deputy, today in the Croatian Parliament, we are discussing a proposal for a decision which I hope the Parliament will give the government consent to conduct a tender for maritime good and will award a concession that will be over 50 years and by '99, respectively. the year as foreseen by the Maritime Good Act. However, in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, it is not clear how and how you will unite two competitions and this competition for the hinterland part, i.e. for the hotel complex and the Maritime Good Act. The Marine Good Act does not provide that it is possible to give a concession for the economic use of maritime goods to someone who is not the most favourable bidder on the maritime good. Because to assume that the most favourable bidder on the maritime good may not also be the most favourable bidder on the entire Kukari 1 project and will then be able to seek judicial protection because the concession on the maritime good has been given to someone else who has the most favourable offer for the rest of the hotel and complex. Therefore, we can now see how absurd it was that the Croatian Parliament rejected the proposal for a Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports proposed by the Croatian Democratic Community club 3, 4 months ago because that law prevented this possibility and that would have made it possible for the Government in that case that the law would have been able to legally call a tender for the hotel complex and to establish the most favourable investor for the hotel complex on the entire project of Cupari and then by the basis of the demand of the same investor to obtain so-called. ... concession on the beach, or maritime good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the fact is that by this decision we will allow someone on a maritime good to get a concession for up to 99 years and although investment on this maritime good is possible, it is little and it is written to you in the very explanation that economic justification can be made in everything maybe 15 and 20 years. Therefore, someone on the maritime good will receive a concession for 99 years or 80 years, which is likely to be defined after the completion of the competition, and investments on the maritime good may be so in order to justify themselves in just 15 and 20 years. I understand that in the Croatian Democratic Community club, we understand the government's view that it is illogical that someone manages the hotel complex and someone else manages the beach and maritime goods that are ahead of him but for this you should have respected gentlemen in the government first passed a law or adopted a law proposed by the Croatian Democratic Community club 3 months ago then this situation would have been perfectly legal, logical and simple to resolve. This is how we fear that the concessionaire who will receive the entire project of setting up the hotel complex Kukari will not at the same time be the most favourable bidder on the maritime good, and then this is not in line with the Maritime Good Act. I hope that, in the meantime, while this project is being implemented and in that part, you will comply with the law so that this project, which is too important for Croatian tourism, for Croatian construction and for the Croatian economy, will not later be destroyed through judicial protection. It is our observation in the Croatian Democratic Community club because we think that it should have been changed first of all or the law or that a new law should go and then make this possible in such a way. Second of our remarks, we hold that Dubrovnik Riviera, Dubrovnik city is the most important Croatian tourist brand and everything that has been happening lately in Dubrovnik Riviera, in Dubrovnik area, it was to raise hotel capacity at the highest level of luxury accommodation facilities in Dubrovnik. On this trail, I expected and we in the Croatian Democratic Community Club expected the Government to then prescribe in its competition exactly the conditions that would in some way force future investments to raise the hotel complex Coopers to that level of 5 stars or even higher luxury capacities. This way, when we expect the offer for 1500 accommodation units to be 100m euros, it seems to us that it is not in line with the declared and adopted Tourism Strategy that went to the right hotel complex of the Coopers to rise to the highest level. Because in the 1960s and '70s, when the Coopers were made at the level of the best, best-quality, lazy world tourist destinations. So today in 2015, we expected the government to set the bar so high that it could not be expected for 1500 accommodation units to offer 100 million euros if it was known that for the construction of one accommodation unit in a 5-star hotel complex at least 100 thousand euros, then this competition in its original sense should have been over 150 and 200 million euros, respectively, the expected offer. If the government expects that offer of 100m euros and that of 250, then we don't seem to have a vision, that it doesn't know what the real goal is to rebuild and edit the hotel complex of Kukari. So we can expect an offer based on the accommodation unit of 67,000 euros and 167,000 euros, according to the tender set up. It seems to us that the range of 2.5 times between the lowest and most favourable offers is too great to be able to send a clear message to investors: we expect you to invest as much resources as this destination, which I repeat, in the 1960s will be at the level of the world's best, most exclusive tourist destinations indeed in this regard and establish. Our third observation from the HDZ Club is that before and before today's decision in the Croatian Parliament, it was necessary to establish and sign an agreement with the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik and resolve numerous unresolved relations between the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What's this about? In 2011, we prepared a contract in the government on mutual rights and obligations between the government and the Municipality of Zupa Dubrovnik. In this contract we have determined how much of the land use and construction fees will be participated by the Republic of Croatia, and how much Župa Dubrovnik is also the owner of certain properties and, above all, roads in the area of this complex. The contract also planned that the Municipality of Župa will have 25% of the funds, and 75% of the funds to the Republic of Croatia, which would be fair, fair, both for the achievement of the interests of the Republic of Croatia and for the achievement of the interests of the County of Dubrovnik. In addition, it should be defined that through the tender all roads in the area of this complex Kukari I, which are generally well in public use and whether after this space is made available to all citizens such as Zupe Dubrovnik and the Republic of Croatia, so as not to be in a situation that, after the realization of this project, citizens who use this area for transport today would not be limited by a future investor. And there is also no solution to the relationship for the regulation and construction of the municipal infrastructure in which the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik and future investor will participate, and before the competition itself, and before this today's decision, mutual rights and obligations between the Republic of Croatia and the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik were to be resolved by contractual relations. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this very decision that we are discussing today indicates how unnecessary it is, the Law on Strategic Investment Projects was failed. Today in the Croatian Parliament we are discussing one of the most important investments in Croatia, tourism, from the creation of a sovereign and independent Republic of Croatia and certainly it is a strategic project. However, in this decision, this law, which the Government has subsequently announced, and we in the Croatian Parliament adopted, although we were in the HDZ Club against the text of the law, is not mentioned anywhere, which in itself says it was unnecessary. Because without basic laws such as the Law on Building Land, the Law on Tourism Land, the Law on Maritime Good, no investment can be realised without these laws being respected. Therefore, the law that was meant to allow for speed up the way in strategic projects, which is certainly this one, has in no way helped this project. So we argued, and then, we argue, and now that this law has no meaning or need at all. Because if we don't respect the basic laws that lex specialis solves it's individual activity and individual space, whether it's forest land, building land, maritime good, without respecting these original laws, we can't realize any of the projects, so it was as strategic as this one is. Furthermore, we argue at the HDZ Club that the assumption of any strategic investment project is to resolve property legal relations on the entire land in the Republic of Croatia, both on the one owned by the Republic of Croatia, on the one owned by units of local self-government and on the one owned by all citizens. So, if you remember, we've said this many times in the Parliament, that until we get rid of property legal relations, it won't be possible to go into any investment cycle, and the best confirmation is that it's also a problem with unresolved property legal relations in the Cooper area. Although these outstanding property legal matters relate to only one part of the project itself, on which parcels and not solved property legal relations will not be based on the right to build as provided for by spatial plans and urban planning of the arrangement itself, however, not all property legal relations are solved. Therefore, we are surprised that the Government of the Republic of Croatia... or the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by passing a new Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, has given up the original variant that the Republic of Croatia is collecting from the compensation for the legalisation of illegally built buildings the largest part of this money, and is not small, that these funds have not been invested in the construction of a new catastrian operator, new land books, new cadastrian measurements, which would solve all those unsettled property legal relations in the Republic of Croatia, and there are many of them. In the Republic of Croatia there are about 3500 catastrian municipalities, all of which 10% and 320 have resolved, respectively, in the process of resolving a new cadastrian measurement, which can then encourage investment in the Republic of Croatia and building and implementing strategic facilities, fostering construction, etc., etc., which this government has indeed not made of this law. Therefore, to conclude, we at the HDZ Club will support such a decision, aware of all the possibilities and problems that may arise in the realisation of the project, which, unfortunately, can rather than wish to speed up its realization due to possible litigation that may arise, ultimately and delay the realization of this project. It would have been better if the government had adopted first and foremost the Marine Good Act proposed by the HDZ Club or had gone as she had announced with her own law on maritime good and seaports where such a situation would prevent it is one thing. The second thing was necessary for the government to establish a contractual relationship at the local self-government's competent unit that would be known in advance and prior to the call for tender relations between the Republic of Croatia and the local self-government authority's competent unit. And the third thing, that the government has a clear goal I'm finishing up, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]] According to the Tourism Development Strategy by 2020, this location is exclusively and exclusively intended for extremely luxurious tourism capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98246	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honoured Hope Turina-Djuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98247	Dear colleague Bacic, I will respond first to the part where you said that this government has entered into this business. Well, I'd say time will show if this is a creamy job. What we certainly know is that all the former governments, including the one you were minister to, have done nothing about this problem and never suggested a solution to this problem. We know that. So, is this going to be creamy? We'll see about that. We know it was nothing. What I want to react to, too. You were the minister of the past government, and until now, mostly the same debate has been heard by ministers from former finance ministers to the justice ministers, so I wonder what they have all done together in the past 15, 20 years that this situation that may be in this project will bring problems and stop at some steps this project at the expected pace. What did they do to keep it from happening today? So now that this government is making one step in a transparent manner, it first asks the Republic of Croatia to agree to go into concessions that enables such a large investment, and then, of course, all other procedures that will follow, and I assume that the Government has instruments through DUDI, through the competent ministries, that the issue of ownership on this land will eventually be resolved if, in the first step, this land is to be taken out, i.e. it will deprive it of the period within which it will receive the concession that is expected in this space. So this, general blackness means we will support but we have 1,000 problems of that we are all aware of from local self-government to the state that we inherited a whole series of problems and that we have to solve them. But I think this is the right one. A start that should be supported with a little more optimism and good faith than the former ministers have done in order to come forward for discussion. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98248	Replication response, the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98249	Dear colleagues, unfortunately you are not familiar with this problem until the end, because if you were to know then it would be clear to you that since 2011 nothing important has changed in the Coopers. So, in 2011, the Spatial Plan of the Municipality of Župa was in effect the Dubrovnik and urban planning of the arrangements as a basis for the call for tenders. The border of maritime goods in the Kupar area has been established. So that part was resolved too, and I said it in the introduction was a proposal for a contract between the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik and the Government of the Republic of Croatia after which the signing could be started in the opening of competitions with what I said earlier in the Law on the Sea Good. So it took the government three years to prepare documentation on the basis of which it would go to tendering. I believe that this is an inappropriate rock team more than in those three years we should have solved all these doubts that I have raised on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club. That these doubts have been settled, and this is an amendment to the Law on Maritime Good, defining relations with the local unit, the unit of local self-government and the question of real vision to what level of quality we want this hotel complex to be, and then present that vision in the competition itself. Then the government would justify that period of three years, as much as we needed to spend it, and it could have been resolved. Because now that it's not done, then I don't see why the government hasn't done it in 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98250	A new replica of the respected Vesna Saboliæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98251	Dear Mr. Bačić, I refer first to your remark that the government has made a mistake in why it did not spend funds from illegally built buildings in a geodetic measurement or the resolution of property-legal relations if I understood correctly. Does this mean that you are against the government's decision to invest a significant part of these funds in building houses for citizens affected by the disaster that this government has done, of course, because this government is first social. And second of all, my question also applies to this observation that the government has entered this project in a flimsy way. I wonder in three years if you've been building a garage I don't know if you could build it that fast. And what I'm interested in is what you did by 2011 and why you weren't at that time, so fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, when it was, these are the years where investments grew. It was a time when economic growth was as you speak. Why didn't you solve that question until then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98252	Replication response, the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I am the author of the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings and I know very well what the allocation of funds made from legalisation fees is. And I don't mind the government of the Republic of Croatia renewing buildings in flooded areas by means of a state budget. However, these did not necessarily have to be funds collected from legalisation fees for illegally built buildings. If the previous Governments of the Republic of Croatia were able to rebuild more than 30,000 facilities after the war without such a fee now being collected from legalisation, then I don't think it was a problem for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to find 500 times less funds to co-finance the restoration of flooded houses. I have nothing against it, however, and I think that the slow realisation of the renovated houses in Posavina is going very slowly, but what I say is that this fee that would be intended to solve the burning problem in Croatia, which is to solve the unresolved property-legal relations of all the citizens of the Republic, and also state property, it has nothing to do with each other. And as for other things, you say where the governments were before, which is why it wasn't solved? Well, I think you should know that this space was under the control of the Moreh. That for a time there was a command of the southern sector. That only when the army had left that space could it go into civilian use and resolution. And then when the state left it to DUDI, then it went into the design of a plan to edit that space, then it went into establishing the limit of maritime good, then that agreement was made. And only then, in 2011, did those governments you're talking get the conditions to go into its realization. I believe that since then, nothing has been done to justify this three-year-old deadline, which in our opinion has been lost without reason, and in that time it could have already started with such a contest.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98254	A new replica, a respected Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98255	Dear counterpart Bacic, I agree that this is one of the strategic projects in tourism. I also agree with your finding that the government has accessed this project superficially. In fact, if the value of investment is 250m to 300m euros, then it is indeed a bell for mobilising all the structures and all the offices of the state administration and ministries at the country's level. The steps here are definitely mixed. First, spatial-planned documentation was to be resolved, then maritime goods were to be established, after which complete property-legislative relations had to be resolved. Afterwards, as the owner of all properties in the area, the Kukara tourist project should have made a clear strategy of what it wants and how to present to investors that vision. So give them the right to build, give them the right to serve. How much investment there will be, how much construction there will be, how much service there will be, whether for a particular hotel, whether for a whole project, whether in this direction one for tourist complexes, another for maritime good, is a matter of serious strategy that we unfortunately haven't seen here. And that's the problem. Today, as a legislative body, we decide and make and we need to give political support to the government and we do not actually see a strategy for the whole project.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98256	Answer, dear Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Skare-Ozbolt you are right, clearly you know how and how to implement a strategic project. The fact is that the urban planning for this area has been adopted, that the maritime goods border has been established, but the fact is also that no property-legal relations have been resolved in the entire area of the Kukari resort 1. This is a serious obstacle to the quality resolution of this competition because it is difficult to expect that the future investor without the guarantee of the state that these particles and these properties and unsettled property-legal relations will be resolved, that it will go into an investment that is expected will certainly be over 200m euros if the government insists that this hotel complex be 5 and more stars and that it will be an even more luxurious tourist complex. Therefore, it is difficult to expect. That is why I said that the previous issue should have been resolved and that property-legal relations should have been resolved, guaranteeing the future investor that they would be able to implement the project on the overall coverage of this plan and only then call a tender, and before that, to resolve the dubiosis over the simultaneous opening of competitions on the maritime good and the hinterland of this maritime goods, i.e. on this tourist land and hotels which are almost destroyed and which are not in office. These two things were to be resolved and then the government would justify this time that has passed since 3 years, nothing of this importance has happened, the government has used the documentation it had and only now goes into the process of realising the project itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98258	The last replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98259	Thank you very much. I really don't understand you. How dare you argue like this on behalf of the HDZ Club when no one has done anything in the past 20 years? Because it is likely that someone else has completed the negotiations, joining NATO, and it is also likely that someone is skipping that the Coopers could not have been discussed without the consent of the president of the state. Because it's military property. But it's important to say that someone didn't do something just to justify this all that you were talking about. Because yesterday we witnessed that we can't exactly interpret the Rules of Procedure like this, but now we're witnessing that because of some higher goals, I don't know which laws can be interpreted in one way or another. See, there's a difference in some who work and don't work regardless of what you're paying PR agencies for a nicer picture, and some for an economic program. But I repeat the key story of all these 100 and a few other military facilities that they owned by MOTH, and it is precisely known how and by which procedure could these facilities be discussed and the government approached the creation of projects to activate these economic operators only at the time when it was consenting from the second hill and when the military decided that these properties were inoperable to them. Why haven't property relations and everything else been resolved in the last three years? That's the other pair of shoes. But this 99-year concession is very important. The 99-year concession is practically a sign of equality with sales.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98260	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're right, you're a colleague of Shucker's. It has already been said today that life in Croatia has neither begun nor will end with any government. All projects, especially such large investment projects, must involve the continuity of several governments and cannot be resolved in either term or month. That is why it was necessary after a decision was made to leave Cooper by the military all these advances made in 99% of the cases made in the past government's term you know very well and that is something that has been realized, where this government has continued. I think she's been wandering for the past three years, but it's better if a competition is open now, but it takes us and for us at the HDZ club to solve certain advances so that this project doesn't get a head start later and that instead of being settled as soon as possible because of the litigation, the court's protection won't be endlessly delayed. But perhaps it was time today to mention another commitment that the Government made other than the one you said, which refers to the resolution of unspective military property, which is the settlement of tourist land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. You know that a law has been passed on this tourist land, to this day as far as I know, the government has not completed a single item relating to the settlement of this tourist land, and these are huge tourist complexes such as Medena, such as Borik, such as numerous camps in Istria, etc., etc. Therefore, even though the law was passed in 2011 to this day, as far as I know, not a single tourist complex has been solved, which includes tourism land which remains unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98262	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, respected Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98263	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Liberal Democrats will support this decision to give the government consent to grant concessions to the Coopers. And at first, I would point out that regardless of what we want to show, sometimes everything is black, although it may not be so that it seems to me that entering this big project gives us hope that in at least 3 or 4 years, as it is said, we will finally come up with a large investment that will trigger both part of our economy and new employment, and especially because on this model, we may have the opportunity to put in place a whole series of similar, perhaps smaller, perhaps less commercially economically interesting but a whole series of objects that are not being used along our coast. And not only those who have lagged behind leaving the army of these objects but also others. It was here at the very beginning and in the debates that the reason why and how it happened for so many years to be such an attractive tourist space right next to Dubrovnik was not taken into account or to enable economic and tourist activity. So there were certainly some legal obstacles, that there were sometimes opinions of such that, at some point, there was always some kind of development in the politics of everything. But what I remember was just saying to President Mesic, former President Mesic, when it comes to such facilities and the availability of such resources owned by the Republic of Croatia, especially with maritime well-being, that the only model and the only quality model in which we can go in and out of these areas is the concession model. You know, unfortunately, in a period of 15 20 years ago, we've been sold too many times by this country's key resources and irrevocably. We're not opening INAs here right now, so I'd say some other big Plive companies, too. And how they're left behind and how much money is left to us today, and how much of these big companies we have. Just an example of Kupar and today Brijuni, I hope that this project will also go or I don't know the potential that Mali Losinj military facilities have on Mali Losinj is something that this model means concession is something that absolutely needs to be supported is probably one of the reasons that everything has gone so far, which are some who had influences then that such objects put into function did not want to agree to any other model but to the model concessioning. This is a specific project, so it's about that maritime well being in one part, in one part it's going to be given the right to build, in one part we have even cultural good, and it's going to have to be given consent there, so it's very complex. And I would agree in that part of the debate conducted by my colleague Bacic that it is urgent that in the Republic of Croatia, this Parliament should pass a law, a new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. Because indeed if Croatia has some potential to attract investment in relatively short time and tourism is in fact one of the few in us of many stable branches of the economy that we can expect to invest and create new jobs and engage our construction operation means one total lift. However, the truth is that with the law, the existing Law on the Sea Good, and there have been many speeches about the problems of expropriation or certain objects and rights to certain facilities and property of maritime goods from some previous times and periods and the way in which it solves the compensation of those owners. It's something that's crucial. And also to solve investment on the maritime good, means someone who enters a large investment and we know for ourselves what most of us know what it means to invest on a maritime good especially when working on ports that someone will certainly not put billions into a maritime well-being that is generally good. And after I don't know the 10, 20 or 30-year term, think about how they'll think about it if they give up the concession or if they don't get a concession anymore in which way they'll regain their investment. It's something that's an essential question, something that we need to deal with urgently. I am sorry, too, even as chairman of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure on several occasions insisted that as soon as we go into the procedure that this new law that would resolve these key issues that are being opened here on this project to solve them and spin them one by one by myself and I can think of speaking both in this sense and in the name of the Croatian People's Party, spin a big avalanche of new investment along our entire coast. Well, in that sense, I would suggest that we start with this as soon as possible, and the government or the ministry has announced that on several occasions, there has been a public debate, but the final text of the law has not yet been seen. There was also a mention here of what it is, whether the price is, or whether this value, which is referred to as 200, is no more than 200 million euros, whether it's something we're going to achieve, or whether we've set goals. Well, I think we should be flexible and be reasonable first. So some flexibility should be given in that. We all know they're Coopers, here's what's mentioned here, he says, it was a 5-star destination. However, the destination of 5 stars 40 years ago is something else today. I can tell from my own experience in space let's say our county so specifically and my self-government was one hotel settlement, one resort, at the time it was in fact the resort was then a resort with 4 stars, today he has no categorization at all. So something that was 30, 40 years ago and Coopers 30, 40 years ago, and today something is quite different. I think, of course, we should insist on the highest level, in terms of offerings for the realization of this project, but at the same time, we need to be realistic. There will be working somewhere between 1500 and 2000 accommodation units, and it is very likely that the investor will not throw everything into the same basket and go to the whole 5 star destination rather than probably combine in one part a different offer and different standard so that this complex can live as long as possible in the season and accept as many tourists as possible different I would say opportunities and different standards. But in the end, the market will show what we can expect. So we can estimate and here it's estimated that it's going to be between 150 and 200, I've seen in some articles that even talks about more, meaning more than 2 billion kunas, which means that it might be to expect us to get a better offer since we know also 6 potential bidders of which most of them are certainly large and we all know who they're very serious bidders about. And I suppose, and we assume in HNS that they wouldn't even report as a non-binding offer that this project is still not considered worthy and that they don't think it's possible to realize it. Because such companies probably wouldn't, serious companies wouldn't even show up in their first bids. So I don't see this at all in black, very optimistic, I think that Dubrovnik and that whole space, unfortunately I was a year or two ago, I was a walking team, I don't know which one of us or you were, so when you see it, then you think about it in a way that it would be better if everything was gone than if only nature was clean, what it looks like today, and I think at this point it's important to crash the quality of the whole Dubrovnik destination and it's urgent that we can't get one quality content in the Dubrovnik environment. Whether they will be 150, 200 or more million euros, I think it doesn't even matter, it's important that we get an investor and something new and good and quality happens there. And in that sense, of course, the HNS will support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98264	Now we'll hear the replicas. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98265	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues Turina-Đuric, I am sorry that you have seen our criticism from the HDZ club of this decision as malicious. First of all, it is well-intentioned to help the Government in the time ahead, and before the final opening of the tender prepares both the legislation and the arrangements for relations with the local self-government competent unit so that after the completion of the competition, unnecessary administrative or perhaps judicial disputes that would then contribute to delaying it and not to resolve it quickly, and this investment in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is extremely important, given that it is 1500 accommodation units, according to us in the expected 5-star tourist complex. And the second thing, when the government determines in its competition the conditions under which it expects an investment between 100m and 250m euros, it is a huge range that suggests that the government itself is not even sure what the complex will look like. And we think that there is no reason since the first round in which six interested, serious, very serious bidders who have and have already many similar, perhaps less valuable complexes have been implemented, but some of them are extremely valuable complexes and can respond to that request set by the Croatian Tourism Development Strategy. It is therefore not good that we have given a range of building accommodation capacity which is almost not even 4 stars, as well as the possibility of building that complex which is more than 5 or 6 stars. Thus, in that sense, our criticism went hand in hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98266	Replica response, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98267	Of course colleague Bačić that you have the right and obligation to actually warn, discuss the subject, suggest to the government what and how. It's your duty and your right. But sometimes when we talk about public investment, it means as a policy when we send messages, I don't think it's good when we send messages that this country can't work, that this country is completely messy, that it's actually trying to cheat in this country. You know, in that debate, you can pull it out. So the government wants to fool potential investors, and we all have a view of the sky and we expect these investors to fall from the sky and come and spend their money. So in that sense, I wanted to. It is all right when you warn, however, when you fear or when you reject these potential investors, then those messages from a place like this are from people who said they were even former ministers, surely followed by those who should put their money as a stake in this future job that we offer them. Here I was, in that sense, reacting, and not wanting to take away your right to discuss and suggest, or warn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98268	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98269	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I welcome the Deputy Minister and Associates. Here's a colleague you've talked about in a broader context about both maritime good and problems, it's clear what the resource is and what is the importance of maritime good, but investment on marine good is often science fiction. These people of our ministry and these valuable women who have been working here for years, we can only commend them because they are valuable and diligent, but in the confusion of our regulations it is often impossible. Here I have a concrete example. First, the maritime good line. The border of maritime good is something that is practically impossible. One person has been working up the borders of maritime goods, I don't know this lately, but now think about all of Croatia and you know it well because you are the head of the coastal municipality of the city. The border of maritime goods is something that is very, very difficult to reach the end, and then when you solve that border of maritime goods, I have had a specific case in our facility meaning a county facility, our facility was one hospital where the county is owned, which is a 30-year hospital, to then report to the Croatian forest that it is theirs and then we discuss the borders of the maritime goods and their ownership with the Croatian forests. And it's a whole set of gaps that no county can solve either a city or a municipality, and then think about how a private investor and someone who, as a private investor, tries to solve the border of maritime goods. So I think it was very important and I appeal here to the deputy minister who knows this issue well to go finally with the Law on the Sea Good and to find a way to solve this and to solve the problems that really investment can go on and on and on these obstacles that we know over a long period of time to solve these obstacles and to then both private and public and county, cities, municipalities can start with investments on the maritime good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98270	Hope Turina-Đuric, answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98271	Comrade Sanader, you know that I am a supporter of the Law on the Sea Good as soon as possible to pass a new law, to amend the provisions that first of all are on this topic when we are in some way blocking investments, to at least solve that part, and then how are we going to, if there are more counties, less local self-government. We mostly fall on these political interests of ours who'll be out there somewhere on the ground whether it'll be from the ministry or a little more county or there'll be one port administration or there'll be five, ten. I think that's less important at this point, but this part that applies to concessions on marine good, I think it's something that we should change urgently because there are great potentials. Unfortunately, too, this government has before, so the HDZ government has made a proposal, several proposals of the Law on the Sea Good. No one saw the light of day, no one was finally brought in. There was also a problem with the State's Attorney's Office. This government had already tried at the very beginning, so the public debate did not go as expected. Apparently, some kind of proposal was made. But really here if this message means something today because there are representatives of the ministry. I think it's about time, especially in this part of the world, that there's a possible investment on marine property that we can change that law and at least do something, at least one step if we don't completely change the law. In that sense, you're absolutely right, Mr. Sanader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98272	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98273	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Turin-Đuric, I do not want to scare anyone and especially those who may be willing to invest several hundred million euros. I believe that not many of my fears would scare them either, but in one part I want to agree with you that tourism is a strategic branch and that it has great potentials just like that branch I keep talking about agriculture about. Agriculture is a strategic branch, it has great potential and I am a proponent, so I keep talking about tying up that green and blue Croatia to advance and talking tirelessly is that I'm not really able to convince myself. But I do believe that every effort that wants to improve, to strengthen this is welcome. Well, and this, I'm not exactly professional enough in this part of it, but you've said about the great possibility of concessions. All right, come on, let's keep it here in this section. But you see in agriculture, there's been a lot of talk about concessions about how they're very good, how they're going to make a terrible improvement, how they're going to give a lot of land to those who need them and so on. But you see, here we are already on the agenda of the change, and it's not exactly going to work properly, and what dynamics we'd like to do. It doesn't work, it just doesn't work, because the little ones we advocate, who should, who are also in this consumer lending. You see, the other day, these little O.P.G.s were also excluded. They can't even run there for this part for, I can't make it with points you with this big handle and it just doesn't work. That's why, unfortunately, we have 70% of the blocked OPGs today, which is why we have such declines in production. And it's all bad things that we had an agreement about last week when we talked about agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98274	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98275	Thank you, well-respected vice president, dear deputy with associates. Well, Turkish colleagues, on many occasions, have mentioned a new Law on Marine Good and Seaports. I would remind you that the government has entrusted the competent ministry with another 7 March 2013 and that the competent ministry has been obliged to refer to the Government by the end of the third quarter of 2013 a new law. It was not done until the end of the third quarter of 2014. We would be happy to have it by the end of the first quarter of 2015. All of us who expect solutions to our problems have them on the marine side. We know from the competent ministry that we are waiting and that we have to wait for years and therefore it is necessary if we want to, but if we really want to protect this maritime well-being and put into service as soon as possible a number of facilities and wealth that we have on the maritime well-being, and also if we want to realise and not stop projects that need to be financed from EU funds under emergency law but also services in the competent ministry to further strengthen and team up. Because there's really few of them. I've been working with them for years. That's a lot of people. Many of them are expected, we have great wealth, and we all agreed today that there is money, that potential investors are blocked by different decisions. So here's my appeal to everyone to put the accent on the teaming and strengthening of that service inside the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98276	Hope Turina-Đuric, answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98277	My colleagues, I can only join this appeal of yours, here are my colleagues from the Ministry. We, as a committee, have repeatedly insisted on it. I hope by the end of this term we have this bill on the benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98278	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98279	Thank you very much. My colleagues Turina-Đurić, you are in here a single commendation of this legislative proposal that would solve the problem of the Kukara tourist complex or the Kukari military complex that had previously been militaryly mentioned what was not good and what we all know about the privatisation of the INA, you said to Pliva, the banks, so together even though the government took part in the privatisation of INA from 2000 to 2004. But what I was about to tell you is that it would be worth counting on further, so you should know that in particular when you mentioned the HNS, so the structures and the leaders of your party and those who came from you actually brought Djuru Djakovic into a difficult position, the RIZ-Transmitters in a difficult position, HZ-Cargo almost destroyed, and above all the shipyard in the Kingdom which was a year, two days ago, and you're the mayor went in to not say in liquidation. And that's an order from the top, the former top of the HNS, from the head of the HNS. So how do we explain the destruction of Croatia's economy and in this government and we point out such an investment? Of course, you support investment each in the Republic of Croatia, but don't say the things that we have examples in your backyard that have damaged the economy of the Republic of Croatia, the main shipyard of the Kingdom which quietly, quietly and quietly went into bankruptcy and this is the oldest shipyard in the Republic of Croatia and that you haven't said a word as mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98280	Hope Turina-Đuric, answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98281	Thank you, colleague Grubisic, for your concern about our shipyard in the Queen. It wasn't an order, you know that very well, but you like to interpret it that way. You know that we were obliged to restructure all shipyards and that most Croatian shipyards were saved. The queen was in a specific situation. However, here I will surprise you with one good news, the Queen of Shipbuilding did not die and was not liquidated. The ministry, with the agreement of local and regional self-government, has transferred concessions from the bankruptcy shipyard to a private entrepreneur who now has a concession that employs 150 employees there. Its plans are to reach 300 workers within 2 to 3 years, to start producing new construction and not just to work a remont, to have three other sub-concessionists also engaged in shipbuilding activities in the area of concessions. That some other sub-concessionists are likely to enter that area of concession soon. That the city will benefit greatly because one part of the shipyard, which is actually part of the administrative buildings, which are not necessary for the production activity itself, will join the city, i.e. put into social function. Therefore, I would prefer that you do not worry about the Queen’s shipyard and that area because it will certainly continue to live on the basis of shipbuilding, as well as some other activities related to the sea and maritime welfare.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98282	On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98283	Dear Deputy Minister with Associates, here on behalf of the SDP Club, we support the proposal of the Decision on granting consent to the notification of the intention to grant concessions and award concessions to the maritime good of course for the purpose of building the economic use of the beach for the realisation of the Kukara tourist development project, which is very important for the development of tourism when you look at the current Tourism Development Strategy that we adopted. The aim is to increase attractiveness and competitiveness which, of course, brings new investments, i.e. new jobs. And this is exactly the kind of tourist development project Kupari he is, in fact, recognized by this strategy as a project that is just aimed at activation on one side of state property, where exactly the location he includes is mentioned in the strategy as a very promising investment site. Of course, such an investment extends the season, opens additional content and thus actually increases the quality of life of local and municipal and county municipalities, and also has major long-term fiscal effects on the revenue side and as far as local and national levels are concerned. The project we are talking about includes the construction of a 5-star hotel complex based on the establishment of a right to build, lease on cultural goods and concessions on maritime goods. When we look at the Coopers, we must remember that the first hotel was built in 1920. Then there were beaches, parks, sports grounds, recreation and vacation facilities. In fact, it was a complex that was year-round, both winter and summer tourism. Before the hotel in the same location was actually one factory of bricks – cup. That's why this area and this part are called Coopers. I said that in 1920 the Grand Hotel was built, the famous Grand Hotel that was in that complex. At the entrance he even had an engraving in 1919. Therefore, we can also say that with the memory of the Coopers were the best and most luxurious though military hotel complex in the then state. And before the Homeland War, we heard that today on a few occasions, this tourist complex was reaching more than a million and a half nights a year. And in hotels there were up to 800, seasonal and up to 800 people. And then for the next 20 years, the whole complex actually collapsed, collapsed, and very often it was said that the Coopers stayed as a dead man in southern Croatia. This is where I have to mention '91. The year, in fact, the cause of these collapses or devastations, there was a war, it started, they actually made progress, they devastated Konavle, they came to Kupar, and the Coopers made a destination, and in fact everything was destroyed. After that, there was a robbery, and unfortunately everything went away. I don't know if you've been down there to see that complex that looks like it's terrible. And we can say that it's a disgrace to the state government and today it's a ruin that reminds us of all those war events. At a session held on 25 September 2014 the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided on setting the conditions and publication of a public call for the delivery of binding offers for the realisation of the Tourist Development Project Kukari on the site of Kukari I. Of course the local community is crying out for this project and... Tourist development project The Coopers should be implemented in part of the former military resort complex owned by the Republic of Croatia, property owned by the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik, property co-owned by the Republic of Croatia and third parties, and these properties should be managed for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, and land particles registered as maritime goods, which should be subject to concession for the purpose of building and economic use of the beach. Today we heard here and doubt that it will be adequately done or done in time. We also heard that the maritime good that is the subject of the concession is divided into zones and for each zone is the intended purpose and possible content per zone. There was a dilemma about the deadline in relation to the reasons for the award of the concession for the beach in question to 99 years actually, I think this amendment will be adopted. This shows that investments in the beach cannot be so large that the overall economic effects cannot be achieved within 55 years. However, the beach is a unique economic whole with an overall development project. The value of the project is, of course, increased multiple times by including concessions on the beach, and the economic value of the salary itself is lower unless what is planned in the background is realised. Here we know after the first round, which was a non-binding round in the first quarter last year, the letters of intent appeared to six potential investors, and these serious investors and investments were estimated at a minimum of 100 million euros. I must return once again that from the possibility of action at the site, or from the release of the site, it has been 20 years in which nothing seemed to actually start investing in the Coopers. It also took the current government two years to start the process, but if we're going to compare two years to 20 years when it was all lying down then we don't have that general thought. The same recovery could probably have been initiated before investors were even more interested, but we hope there will be now. Finally, we can say that before the war this complex had more than a thousand beds and was filled all year long, there were 800 employees repeated. So it was high time to start working on this most attractive location for tourism development. Of course, the government must be the one who will play the role of actually removing all obstacles, obstacles of course to investors that this investment can be achieved. And today there have been all kinds of objections, and I won't take them as malicious. I am pleased to see one consensus throughout our Parliament that we have seen the importance of this investment project. And I also think that the promoters will respect all these remarks because we have opened up problems here and land books, problems with maritime goods, etc. And to the joy of all local or national levels we are going towards achieving this project and we hope to revive it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98284	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98285	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Shimac-Bonačić, you come from that area and I know that you are well aware of the situation mainly around Cooper. You're saying there were 800 employees on 1600 beds in the hotel village of Kukari, first of all it was a military resort we all know. However, here in this material it says that around 300 employees will be allowed to work after the reconstruction of the construction of the new complex. So there's a difference between the number of employees before that time they're rotten by the former state and here's the construction of a new complex with 4 and 5 stars. That's one thing. And secondly, I'd like to ask you as a citizen of Dubrovnik, where you can go to the beach in Dubrovnik without paying for a ticket, for example. 50 kuna, how much is a ticket to Banja or another beach? Where in Dubrovnik can the citizens of Dubrovnik go freely except for a sea hill or a hill or a fireflies to bathe freely in our Adriatic Sea, which is the maritime well-being of all the citizens of the Republic of Dubrovnik? Here's the answer so we know.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98286	The answer to Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98287	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My friend Grubishic, I'm lucky I'm taking a bath under the house. So if you ask me on my personal bath. However, regardless of what are privatized hotels, or bought from privates, the citizens of Dubrovnik have places to bathe. Why? Because local self-government is also conscious, aware of that, and then we do little beaches somewhere to have where the citizens of Dubrovnik bathe. So you can also talk to, and talk to hotel owners and not all of them are closed, it's not exactly the same story as it went public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98288	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98289	Dear colleagues, I will refer to that finding of yours that you hope there are no malicious objections here. And I believe that all those who have debated today are not at least malicious but well-intentioned with suggestions that things should be improved and that the conditions for this investment from 100 to 300 million euros depends on the range begin to be realised. However, I want to mention one thing here. The state here is the master of the situation. This is the project the state will benefit most from. So I'm asking myself why is everything so slow? Which is why it should be from the first, here from the first to the second offer, the first offer last year was optional, we are now discussing and announcing a second binding offer. So in a year they failed to get rid of property legal relations and the state is the master of the situation and keeps the ends in hand. It's just incomprehensible. And who's going to get into your country, invest a lot of money when he sees that the state can't protect him at all, he can't protect himself, he can't protect himself, he can't solve one note for seven months on a property. So how will it protect the investor who is expected to invest up to 300 million euros?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98290	Tatjana Shimac- Bonačić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98291	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In fact, Mrs. Scare-Ozbolt, all of this is actually saying that there are very complex investment problems. And we agree on that. You also said that the state is a master and a situation like this. The state has often been a master of various situations. It's not the problem we're seeing today, it's not today. Therefore, you too were a minister in one of the governments, therefore, the problems were, the problems were to be solved very much. This government has begun to resolve, so you can't say it didn't start, thank God.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98292	And Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98293	Thank you. So I completely agree with you that this type of investment actually has no alternative and the Republic of Croatia is incometing almost 8 billion euros from tourism if I am not mistaken. It is one huge income on which the Republic of Croatia in these recession years no matter what we think practically survives or survives from. And certainly that Croatian tourism still has a lot of potential for development and that our Adriatic Sea is probably both the greatest pearl and the greatest treasure that the Republic of Croatia actually has. And what personally disgusts me is the idea that we build the Coopers while seeing future oil platforms from these Coopers in the distance. And are we really aware and can we, like Croatia, engage in such an adventure as a state whose state budget depends on tourism and depends on the revenues of tourism in these years will depend on the years to come, allow one such risk, take on the fact that because of several hundred potential millions of kunas, in fact, this greatest asset that the Republic of Croatia has, it is certainly the Adriatic Sea but on the other hand and the income generated by tourism because only a 10% drop, which can be achieved by practically some minimum incident would be a much greater loss for the Republic of Croatia than in any way in the years that come from this unfortunate, potentially unfortunate oil in the Adriatic?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98294	Tatjana Shimac- Bonačić reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98295	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, I agree that Croatia has great potentials that have actually not yet been used. And what we were saying today about the Kukar complex, of course, is that it's a huge investment, a huge potential that will bring security to both the state budget and local GDP growth, for sure it will actually work. And as far as you're concerned, you're saying that these Coopers can see these future, possible oil fields, platforms, etc., so I hope that the government is so aware that such things can't be threatened by tourism, and I don't believe that. Therefore, I trust this government to think and to think about ecology. Or they will think that the moves they make as far as such research and the platform are concerned that they will certainly not compromise the view of such a large investment that will be. 'Cause I'm sure that's the investor who's gonna know that the platform's gonna see that they're not actually going to get into business like that at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98296	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC, the New Wave and the People's Party Reformist colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98297	Dear Madam Vice President, Ms. Vice President, the esteemed deputy minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Our club will, of course, support and vote in favour of this proposal, but we are free to make our remarks regarding this particular dispute in solving and accessing this major strategic project, and it is a strategic project for tourism and development and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, but also for Croatia as a whole. When you have and plan a 300m-euro project, then it requires a general mobilization of all state structures, all local structures in the area where such a project is intended and indeed maximum speed in resolution. Unfortunately, this example is not the case. As early as 2011, the project was announced, now in 2015, that we were practically not removed from the beginning, indeed from the beginning. And today we will draw a conclusion and we will vote for this proposal, we will discuss the tender for a binding offer, big investors will come, they will invite their lawyers to look at the situation of things, then they will find that there are 51 other co-owners, that there are real estates on which there are records and simply the Republic of Croatia will invest 300 million euros in the eyes of the investors coming will be one very non-serious state. Indeed, if you intend to call big investors in this project first to clear up property legal relations, resolve all possible doubts so that investors do not later drag into courts and practice the rule of law on investors of 300m euros. I think such a practice that is very common in our country should finally be said enough. Through this example and through today’s debate, many topics have been opened. What has been done, which has not been done is assessed by everyone in this country, from voters to investors. But what I would like to praise, so it's not all negative, it's not that anything was done, what was done absolutely well, and what the government did well, that it finally started to list, record and publish real estate lists in state property through the State Office for State Property Management, which had more serious started to dispose of state property than it did before. However, these assets are still not legally clean, spatial plans in many locations where they are, for example, military facilities have not been brought in and the question arises why Croatia does not have the right and the best and the most pro-pulsory part of its function. Today we are talking about duty, unemployment, and on the other hand we have practically real estate that we can put into operation very quickly, just so the state starts really in the right way to master its properties. And here's why I'm not going to repeat everything I've already said through replicas because it really wouldn't make sense, until this second round, to make every effort and solve all the doubts so as not to embarrass themselves in front of investors because whoever comes to Croatia and offers that kind of money once he's disappointed he'll never return to investing in the country again. Therefore, the method of experimentation and errors, a method of superficial approach, cannot be a way to guide it when it comes to the Kukari project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98298	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98299	Dear fellow Members of the Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, the question is when you were talking about state property, now we're not just talking about this government, I'm talking about all the governments, what all these great institutions are doing, all these great agencies, the councils, all these great duodies, or what they were called, we're changing their names, we're overruling, we're turning from hollow to blank, and every time you say what you're saying is now better lords of state property. Yes, this government has made efforts, we have finally started to list, finally, but I am actually amazed by the fact that there is only one continuity in Croatia, which is the continuity of the poor work of state institutions. And when the government assumes power then it conflicts with NGOs, sectors that the government oversees, but what the first Deputy Prime Minister Cacic once said we lost at one point the battle against red tape, because what's going on is going to have to stick to red tape. Why have these notes been so long, why hasn't it tortured anyone? There are people who have been paid in this country to solve such problems, to warn. However, before Mr Linic talked about the problems they also have in the construction of the hotel, for 7 years I can't clear things up, 7 years, and Croatia is crying out for jobs, for new jobs, and then there's wondering who's crazy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98300	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98301	Yeah, that's a really good question who's crazy about it. So, when you have a record on a 300m-euro project that has not been resolved for 7 months, which, therefore, depends on one reference point there in the land-book department at the Dubrovnik Municipal Court, then the question of who is crazy and whether the state in the right sense controls an investment that expects a terrible profit, employment, construction, development of tourism. On these little things, the devil is in the details. This kind of thing is a big investment, and this behavior is inexplicable. So it's not the former government or former ministers' fault for this example, I don't know who, or the future. It is those who allow such a situation that one official there does not solve a seven-month record, and the government is preparing a major competition and thoughts to invite large investors from around the world. And now we ask the question that who's crazy here?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98302	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98303	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates who have gone but well. Here is something we from Slavonia will say about the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for making says the intention to give in the concession of the hotel village of Kukari. Although it's a long way from Slavonia, but I have certain ideas, because they say in Dalmatia that man and donkey are smarter than man himself. So this debate here today in the Parliament and these proposals, so I won't say the criticism but the well-intentioned observations we make are not for us to plead against the concessions of this hotel settlement but rather for helping the Government of the Republic of Croatia to point out some of the problems that may arise in the publication of the tender for binding offers for the hotel village of Kukari. I'd like to talk about geography first. The Coopers and the Parish of Dubrovnik that belongs, so the Coopers belong to the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik are the thinst when we look to say geography to the thinst part of Croatia. In that part, the site of Ivanjica that is in Bosnia and Herzegovina is what would be said by an old-fashioned rifle can reach the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And these are people when it was not to say "no power in the Coopers" and when the Coopers in this state, or the beach in the Coopers, are what they used to use you to get what they say Rolling Stones down and bathe in our Adriatic Sea and in five minutes they're back in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Coopers who are written here in this material so devastated and abandoned that they need to tear down all objects except those that have historical and cultural significance as the Grand Hotel, or the remains of the Grand Hotel that should be renovated. Here in this material is not mentioned Mr. Antesic and Tito's villa. So, I don't know if it's some kind of ban on mentioning that name or how someone said it was called Shecherezada or something that's on top, so it's not the coves but that geographical part that belongs to this bay that's the most attractive for the beach, to build a beach, to rebuild the beach in the Coopers. So, I don't see if it's also entering that complex that's going to be given in a concession or not entering that. Furthermore, the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik and Mr. Chief seems to me to be called Nardeli Silvio is also, should participate in some, in solving some of the problems arising from this concession which is thought to be given by 99, as the English and Chinese signed this for 99 years. Although I don't see any reason for anyone to take it in a shorter period of time. Maybe after a few years, it won't pay off or I don't know what it's going to be, there's more in the sense of those deadlines on which the concession should last in the Coopers. So, at this finding part of the Republic of Croatia are in the event of concession on this hotel settlement of questionable roads, roads of Zupa Dubrovnik, roads of the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik, as someone has already warned here. Keep going, keep going. The hotel complex certainly largely participates in the use of the infrastructure of the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik. So, starting with water consumption and water distribution, gas, electricity, etc. And that should be settled with the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik and a common solution should be found, so the justified will not say fears, but questions that could be raised by the municipality in relation to the state. It is said that 300 employees will be employed. In the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik where there is great unemployment and good birth in view of the arrival of the population mainly from those I should say the parts in which Hercegovina is inhabited by Croats and where we have, I say a good example, perhaps the only one in Croatia of birth and increased birth. So it's a good thing you can hire 300 people if it's going to be people from the parish of Dubrovnik. The fact that says here the beach will be free of that freedom, that freedom is paid for money as well as in Dubrovnik when you want to give 50 kuna citizens of Dubrovnik or will jump there on the rocks and I don't know what kind of wild beaches or someone said here, a colleague of Bonačić said that these beaches are made small for local citizens, small beaches so they will come here to know that they are for these domestic people, and this great beautiful beach is going to be fenced with wire like in Bali, as in San City, South Africa, etc. where only guests will have the right to come. There will even be a security service and a diving service that will ban the arrival of local people to such beaches. And he says it'll be a free beach. Free if you pay, of course. Well, you can go to Thailand if you pay, thank God. So, the HDSSB club is not that we understand each other against this legislative proposal, against the concession to this devastated hotel complex, but here I must make certain remarks. He says it's called a tourist development project, Cooperi. It used to be a tourist military project, Cooperi is now a developmental one. He's no longer military, he's now developmental in the Coopers. Furthermore, in the debate, I also wanted to highlight the problem of the total surface area of maritime goods. Here in the material supplied with the proposal for a decision are the areas indicated in square meters. So he says that the total area that is to be given in a concession under the Kukari 1 tourist development project is 79,000 let's round square meters or that can be seen in hectares like us in Slavonia so 8 hectares. And the surface area of the aquarium, so the sea surface, the water surfaces of whatever you want is 46,000 square meters or 4 acres and let's say, so it could be another morning. We can go to the duo, if we want to, but we don't want to talk about it. So, what I'm interested in really is this area, mostly a maritime area, which will be affected by the concession, which is how the locals and the population in it can come or can I by boat come or I don't know which way they can, or by helicopter, come down to enjoy our Croatian maritime good? So they say it's all Croatian maritime good. The prime minister said during a visit to the Coopers, accompanied by the head of DUDI Pejnovic, that Cooperi would open the door in 2016. Maybe the door to the baggers or construction works because the way it's done all together about Cooper, last year we had non-binding offers, it takes us a year to discuss binding offers and, as Mrs. Skare-Ozbolt pointed out above all, we haven't solved property-legal relations, which is the main brake for investors. The second stop for investors is a beautiful view of our Adriatic sea and it is said that in the southern Adriatic, the largest possible oil and gas sites are. Well, then the platforms that will have romantic names like they have and now the romantic names of that platform will be. I wonder what will happen to investors when they find out that the Republic of Croatia has decided, in its strategic objective and intention, to grant concessions for the exploration and exploitation of gas and oil mainly in the southern Adriatic. That prerequisite or condition didn't exist a year ago. At the time, it was not known that Croatia was also heading towards the oil industry of gas and oil exploitation in the southern Adriatic, now it is known, now it is the greatest achievement and achievement of Mr. Vrdoljak's economy. Oil, and it's in the Adriatic! So how is someone going to take at all when there's a uncertainty of the ecological disaster that we all know about, starting with the Gulf of Mexico and the British Petroleum company that caused the disaster in the Gulf of Mexico, in a large bay that's 20 times larger than the Adriatic Sea, so there's been a severe ecological disaster, and what's only going to happen if such a thing happens in one closed-up I can say to a relatively small one like the Adriatic Sea. Then will the concessionary who built all this perhaps give up the concession? Will he say he's compensated for investing in the concession, and he's got what he's got. Are we aware that we have contradictory strategies? One is oil industry, and this industry is referred to by Minister Vrdoljak, and the other is our strategic branch of tourism. They're not compatible. We still have to solve these records, which is also not far in the case of northwest winds from Ploč towards Kupari and Dubrovnik. What happens to the Coopers then? And coal, fuel of the 19th century. To which the Croatian government persistently insists. Why? Well, I don't know why, I guess someone who produces coal was made some kind of deal. That's all. What else a man might think, I suppose. I'm saying I guess so. Therefore, the HDSSB club will support this legislative proposal but the problems that are related to it are not resolved. Furthermore, it is said here that this government and that government have not solved the Kuper problem. Give these voters who come on Fridays a little calm down. So it's true that both the government and the other government that were changing, and it was mostly HDZ's not solved Kuper's problem, and it's now devastated as it was devastated. It is true that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia that all military resorts have been attached to the Ministry of Defence and that this is one of the problems that was at the time, but this is solved in seven days of ownership transfer and DUDI and the rest so it has to be solved in seven days, not 2.5 decades, 25 years we have almost our Croatian state and it is not solved. Not to mention the arguments made by Vesna Scare Ozbolt that those natural persons who have a burden who have put a burden on anything that they can't handle in garters don't know how many months and months. So we want tourism, we want oil in the Adriatic, you can't make it simple for both and squeeze and something else. How will investors who now have a binding offer react to this? Will it lower the price if the Croatian state insists on oil platforms to explore the Adriatic and exploit oil and gas? What he means is, wait a minute, you're gonna put oil platforms in front of us, and what we're gonna invest in then. Will this reduce the price that the Croatian State could achieve in the event of a concession on this investment for the concessionaire or will we get the situation that the concessionaries may give up on this because of the situation we are talking about? So it's a serious thing. So this tourism and naphthalysing don't go together, as the touristisation of the Croatian coast says here, as if it's not already touristic. It is a very interesting term used in our materials, touristisation. I've never heard of that word, but it could be translated differently, and now I'm not going into linguistics here. But tourism is really a word that should be replaced by another word here. Here's so much from the HDSSB club since the vote is at 12.00... that Boris also speaks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98304	It's not just that much because you have three replicas. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98305	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague Grubisic mentioned the villa of Tito just before, Tito's villa is within Kupar, but not within this project, Kupar I, but it remains in the residential zone managed by the Ministry of Defence, and there is another zone for which no competition is called which is exclusively building land where it is possible to develop other projects. As for Zupa Dubrovnik, I must say that Zupa is Dubrovnik and such an extremely large construction site because at this moment two hotels in Dubrovnik are being renovated...... sheraton and Hotel Mlini where total investments are over 50 million euros. And thirdly, you have rightly noticed that the novelty in relation to the first competition is the launch of competitions for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. According to the procurement programme for the exploitation of hydrocarbons, that belt is only 10km from the Cooper, so that fact will certainly further valorize this location and I don't think it's going to work with each other. I believe that down here you are slowly talking and paraphrasing the song from the Ponystra you see Solt that in the future you will be from the humble there is a platform so it will refer to the obvious looks of these guests who are in the Kupara complex.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98306	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98307	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you are, no one in the debate mentioned this villa of Tito that exists in that complex, and here you said that it is part of this new complex. However, it is not specified in this material. Then Cooperi II will be. Thank you very much for your warning, but it's good to know that we know this thing because we have Willa Zagor and I don't know what kind of villas are not solved either. We even have an expensive chair of presidents or presidents, it doesn't matter. But what you said about the platforms here is really if I had so much money and I was an investor would think very carefully, I think you'd give up most likely if for the clear days from the window room with a view of the sea there would be a view of the platform because sometimes in the clear days you can say in Dalmatia or from Velebit to Italy. And unfortunately here is only 10km from the shore of the salary we will have the most likely platforms driven by one minister, and this other pushes tourism let those ministers agree on what they want, tourism or platforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98308	Young Marelić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98309	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You said your colleague Grubisic was a really devastated area of KUPAR, but unfortunately the devastation was created after the war because we can remember when we were playing fire polo in the pool in the Coopers which is now also devastated. So it wasn't the devastation that formed it was, unfortunately, after 2000. We're talking about what we haven't done before, if we know that the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik has just adopted a plan to arrange the maritime good governance area for this area, and it brought it in late '14. So the government didn't even have time before that it could be involved. And next we're talking about the wells, yes, but away from us ten miles from our finds, the Italians are drilling their own 20 miles from us, so that's that close. Is 10 miles closer to one side that's not, and surely we'll give more attention and follow ecologically on those wells than the Italians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98310	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98311	Thanks a lot, buddy. You say miles up, miles down, never mind, the Italians drill, we drill. But the Italians are also tied to the Italian coast and the Italian territorial sea. Therefore, you can hardly see, except for a truly beautiful day, and besides that, given the curvature of the globe, you can hardly see the Italian platform. And ours will be seen because we here express ourselves in miles and not miles. If it was 10 miles, it would be 16, 17 kilometers, depending on either sea or sea or this other mile. But this is 10 kilometers, it says 10 kilometers off the coast. And as for palleting as they say in Slavonia, they say that the Chetniks and the aggressors in Croatia have done great damage and carried whatever they can, but when ours start wearing it, it's well peeled or paletified whether it is, thank you very much. That's how the Coopers look. No windows, no doors, no power cables, no plumbing. It's all sold in waste, iron and everything else, there's plenty of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98312	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98313	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you mentioned your colleague Grubisic earlier about including local self-government leaders for projects like this, and I agree with you there. You also mentioned Mr. Nardelli, who is the head of the County of Dubrovnik. Why do I agree? Because there's one big problem in the parish of Dubrovnik, which is the big floods that were recently, we've witnessed about it, the floods, the floods because of the weak drain. Therefore, and this is now an opportunity, given that these channels are located in that area, to be placed now, are defined under the terms of the tender to be... Let's say, according to DUDI, that it goes in front of local self-government, to create another channel under that complex that will be, in fact, solved by this way to get rid of disposal, that is to prevent floods in the parish of Dubrovnik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98314	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98315	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's Brodosplit made and made for Venice iron balloons, so maybe in some other ways we could still solve the flood problem in the Parish of Dubrovnik. But given the geographical accommodation and that there is indeed Croatia, I don't know if there is an air line 2 km to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The technical possibilities on land are very low because you have other infrastructure, roads and everything else, the whole other infrastructure. That is why it would be good, and that is why I also pointed out in the debate the importance of local and local self-government talks with the state of Croatia in order to define and regulate this in the concession competition. It would be good if we could work it out. I'm a well-intentioned debater myself and you. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98316	Dear colleagues and colleagues have another debate individually, I think we should finish it, and then we will move on to the usual voting procedure in the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98317	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here I want at the end of this point. as a final debate on this decision to give consent to the Government in order to grant a concession for the realisation of the Kupari Development Project. I'm going to start my debate with one famous statement from our prime minister that he said not long ago, we're not building fountains in Arosha, we're building historical projects. And indeed in these three years, many of these historic projects have been launched. I personally unfortunately failed to catch any of them. It's probably this historic but for the future for the next 100 years. And this is my proposal, regardless of all the things we heard today in the debate on one property legal indetermination, i.e. unsolved certain relations in property legal relations acceptable. However, I would like to warn you of this 99-year-old moment. For me, that 99 years might be a classic sale. It's a really big and long time. What we're going to do and where we're going to be in 2114, we don't need to think much, we don't need to talk much. These are projects that our grandsons' grandkids are likely to be users of all the positive, possible and negative consequences of a project like this. It is only 25 mandates of future governments, 20 mandates of future presidents of the country and indeed 99 years questionable. We have an amendment here that says 50 to 99 years. In view of these areas, I think it may be more appropriate to make this planned time limit somewhat shorter. However, as we are in these topics in this House forever, as we debate widely, I will on this topic about giving concessions to this tourist complex that has been destroyed, it is not in the function of connecting processes that are under way and also regarding tourist complexes. One of them is the Hotel Company Imperial from the island of Rab from which I come and the other is the Hotel Enterprise Plat. It's two hotel companies, two complexes this government has decided to sell. This government decided to sell them in a second attempt. The first attempt was infamously ruined because they simply did not find any interested in what these two complexes would buy under the given conditions. And the conditions were next. For the Hotel Tourist Company, the Imperial project envisioned 250 million kuna shares and 200 million kuna additional investment in content. But what happened? I've been trying to open this topic in this House and my question to the prime minister, so why are you selling something that's state-owned at the moment when the most unfavourable market conditions are, why are you selling a business that's doing business positively, which makes a profit year-on-year, which has 300 employees in your company, and why you're putting these employees in one situation so they may not be employed tomorrow. that they're also ready for the Employment Service. At that time, the prime minister told me that they wanted to sell the company because it is a basic condition to raise the level of accommodation and content to 4 stars. No investor accepted that level. Unfortunately, that first competition, too, fell. The attempt and the government did not wait long, it called again and in the first round of sales, four bidders again appeared in the hotel companies, but now on very different terms. Now we're selling something for 250 million kuna, but there's no longer any condition to raise the content, that the values of the accommodation units must be raised. The future investor should not invest 200 million kunas in any content, the only thing that should be guaranteed is that he will not fail the purchase contract of 25 million kuna and all that is written inside. What happened? It happened between two circles, i.e. between the first and second attempts, this government has failed to ensure that those people who are employed, which is a permanent 270 jobs, provide them with any protection. So they don't absolutely want to secure through the sale of the hotel company workers' protection even though it's always been done so far, even though it's always been clauses in all possible state assets sales. They don't care about the workers who work in the company and left it to the market. We want only 250 million kuna and we don't care what happens on that island anymore. It's really sad and it proves that this government doesn't know what it's doing because if in the first round it asked for capacity building, new content, and asked for 200 million kuna stakes, in the second round of quitting and says here you can just buy for 250 million kuna. Obviously, it's meant for someone, obviously it's looking for an investor who's going to take over, and then my concern is that you move on to someone else who's going to manage it the easiest way because there's no problem and there's no worker. So there are no clauses to protect the status of those who are constantly employed. So who cares about such privatisations? Because what to say about this company, in 2013, they ended up with 13 million kuna profits, in 2014 in the first 9 months 32 million kuna profits, by the end of the year planning a slightly smaller total profit than in 2013. So the company works, everything's fine, people are busy, all taxes are paid, all taxes paid to the state. It's the first time they've shared dividends with small shareholders. And now someone's decided to sell the CERRP simply for stock value and over and then when we sell you can do whatever you want with these people, you have no obstacles. I care about talking about it in this house because people look at this and they know how the government behaves. It's the same situation with the hotel company Platt. There the workers self-organized and said and we will offer 100 million kunas as much as is required for the company and here is our future some hotels are in operation, and many are not. And we don't want to stay under these conditions, people who will end up at the employment office tomorrow. These are the only truths and I don't understand why the problem with future owners, if they want to be sold, is to protect the people who work there. Why is that such a problem when it's always been done? But, of course, we're still on the side of the story today. Here's HEP, we're going to sell shares to citizens 25%, we're going to sell Croatia's lottery, and there you can get your shares as citizens, but we don't want to give employees anything, and they work in good companies and they don't mind the fact that they work in a company that's mostly state-owned. So what is this about justice and truth? That's the basic question. Unfortunately, you can't get an answer from anyone, it's all about some kind of veil of secrecy, there's no transparency, you can't know anything, and we're just waiting for the future master of the island of Rab because the Imperial is the spine of our economy and it works, and I'm not talking about how local self-government is perceived on that island. Two local self-governments are not consulted at any time, although they have tens of thousands of square meters within the scope of which the company operates. Tens of thousands of square meters. tourism land and no one asks them anything. And we can solve that without any problems, just like we're going to solve the Coopers in this way where no property legal relations are solved until the end. But the story is beautiful, you can hear it well, and we live in a year where everything will be nice, everyone will be happy and we'll wait for the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98318	Thank you too, dear colleague. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98319	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, you spoke first of all about the problem with employees so companies that go to privatisation and that there is not much to worry about, not taking care of them enough. But here when we talk specifically about this proposal for a decision, about giving a concession to the Cooperi, or about how the Catastrian municipality specifically writes here... let's not quote now, so talk, Brasina, here's to say specifically, about the Grand Hotel. And it writes nicely in these terms, says this, the conditions and criteria for selecting the best bidder, the Grand Hotel will be handed over to the investor and written down the conditions under which it is handed over, the annual lease, etc. So there's also to say special tricks and special conditions which then actually be suspicious, slightly to be suspected of all this. Or what you said about the ones we could grow up to be, that they'd go to a concession contest. And we already know who and who we know and who's building or who built the Sheraton Hotel just outside of Cooper. So, some things can be matured, but we'll see if it's called popular concession tenders, then we'll see who gets a concession on the Coopers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98320	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the list of people reported for discussion. Representative for the Proposer, Deputy Minister Zdenko Antešić, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98321	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here is the final debate on the relatively simple subject at first sight, so giving consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to schedule notices on the intention to grant concessions for the beach in Kukari as part of the Revitalisation Project, i.e. investment in the Kukari tourist complex. First of all, I'll just take a few things out in the end. I thank you for the valuable remarks that will surely find a place in the tendering process for the award of concessions on the beach Kukari. However, not to leave in the air inexplicably some facts. First of all, we all know that Coopers are in the state they are today, so they are in a completely devastated state, a broken state, which is terrible that it can't be more scary since 1995. So, for a full 20 years and already in 2011 and even before, a procedure has already been launched to somehow revitalise it and put it into function, therefore, in a tourist function. However, some advances were needed to specifically access the task. Among other things, the Municipality of Župa Dubrovnik should have adopted a management plan for maritime goods and analysis of the zone, etc. etc. And that document is on the quest for us, so this government to express myself in a colloquial way. This is the document that was the basis for the launch of a concrete concession was adopted in December last year. So it was only then that the settlement of property-legislative relations gave rise to conditions for the award of concessions. However, there was talk here I would limit myself exclusively to the marine well-being. So there was talk that no property relations were solved on the marine good. In all three particles there are three particles that are maritime good, and they are listed in the list B in land books as maritime good, with the burden in the C list, so the burden for erasing the complaint, which, the complaint that was made in the process of the cadastrian measurement. The deadline for these complaints expired in 4.5.2014 and therefore, by official duty, I hope that, as soon as possible, these problems will be resolved. It'll be about the sea goods here absolutely clean. The third thing that's very important for understanding this whole problem is that it's going to be called, that it's about a single competition that actually consists of two parts. So it consists of two parts that are connected to each other, because we have to bear in mind that the land complex of the entire Cooper without the maritime part is actually impossible to re-valorate. And it is planned that this part, therefore, will be settled in such a way that 90% of the points and 90% of the points will be borne by the bidder for the maritime good percentage of the value, so that the concessions offered will be for, will be settled in such a way that 90% of the points and 90% of the points will actually be the one that is already, so that they will receive the right to build or receive a lease on land, and 10% of the fee on the maritime good that actually creates one whole of that complex. And the last thing that is important is to clarify, and this is what certain doubts about beaches or promenade along the entire beach will be formed and opened for all residents, all visitors. And so the passage to the maritime good will be open for all. One small part, so in Zone 5 which is foreseen and this Plan is the purpose of the area and only on land will be fenced for the installation of these beach facilities and facilities for the use of the entire complex. However, he will in no way prevent the passage along the sea and access to the sea. Here's another thank you very much for constructive discussions, remarks. And as far as we're concerned, it's been repeatedly mentioned in the Ports and Marine Good Act. And I, too, and most of us here hope that here within a very soon time that law should be here at the assembly benches at the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98322	Thank you, too. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98323	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, we at the club understand your wish, and we have supported that the entire Kukari 1 complex, which includes both the land and the maritime well, be handed over through the tender to one investor. And that's why we supported it. But we also highly recommended you before opening the competition, before making a decision on the most favourable bidder, change the Law on Maritime Good or make a new one. Because the applicable Law on Maritime Goods does not allow you to choose the most favourable bidder on the maritime good to be his investment on land. The fact that he will invest in the land part of the Marine Good Law does not mean anything. It's just like giving him a sea well-being in the Coopers because he's going to build in Krapina. And you have to change that to avoid administrative or judicial disputes. This is why we at the club have proposed a Law on Maritime Goodness to address the issue of Cooper and Brijuni and the question of numerous Excelsior hotels, Argentina and numerous hotels throughout the Croatian Adriatic, Medena, etc.,itd. If we're going to give concessions to hotel complexes on maritime good, which is reasonable, legitimate, and it's still not legal. It'll be legal the moment you change the Marine Good Act. And that's why we warned you before the call for tenders change the Law on Maritime Goods by emergency procedure at least if you won't go into full amendments to the law and the adoption of a new law that is necessary and not only for this, but you know for other matters, and for the new Law on concessions, etc., etc. And that's why we told you that someone might make the best offer on the maritime good, and they won't get a concession because that concession will be taken by someone who's made a better offer on land. Think about it so you don't get into a situation where a future investor complains about such a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98324	Thank you very much. We've exhausted both the replicas and the answers to the replica. The debate on the text of the decision is over. We'll vote on the decision when the conditions are met. Now we'd like to decide on the agenda points we've done this week. First, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for notification of the intention to grant concessions and award concessions on the maritime good for the construction and economic use of the beach in part of the Catastrian municipality of Brašin, and for the purpose of the realization of the tourist development project Kukari in the village of Kukari I in the Municipality of Župa dubrovacka. The debate on the text of the decision is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Club of Representatives Slavko Linic, Branko Vuksic and Nedzad Hodzic and the Club of HDSSB Representatives. I would like the representative of the representative of the respected Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Zdenko Antesic to show about the amendments. Amendment of the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, amendment 1 to point 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98327	Thank you very much, he became an integral part of the final proposal for a decision. Amendment of the Club of Representatives Slavko Linic, Branko Vuksic and Nedzad Hodzic at point 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98328	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98329	Thank you very much, he became an integral part of the final proposal for a decision. and amendment of the HDSSB Representatives Club Article 1. Therefore, the amendment to Article 1 is complemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98330	The amendment is consummated in substance in Amendments 1 and 2, but in a formal sense it is not accepted, although I say it is consummated in full in these first amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98331	The applicant of the amendment. Well, there's no representative. Let us first determine if we have enough representatives in the Croatian Parliament to be able to decide on all topics. Please quorum. Let's see the presence. 102 MPs are in the hall, we can decide on all the points on the agenda. And now I ask that we vote on the amendment of the HDSB's Club of Representatives, which the government has partly included in the proposed decision. So to reject the rest of it or accept it. So there's no other one. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the required majority, 20 votes for, two abstentions and 73 against. That concludes the debate on the amendments. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 100 votes in favour and 1 abstention were decided against the vote on granting consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of giving a concession and awarding concessions to the maritime goods for the construction and economic use of the beach in part of the Catastrian municipality of Brašin, and for the purpose of the realization of the tourist development project Kukara in the Municipality of Župa dubrovacka in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. We're going to decide on the points of the agenda. First, the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I'd like the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, dear colleague Gordan Sobol, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98333	Thank you, Mr. President. At its 47th session held on 30 January 2015, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the request of the municipal court in Split for the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against Željko Kerum for the criminal offence referred to in Article 199(2) and the offence of the slander referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law. Željko Kerum is a representative of the 7th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament and based on Article 76. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated. The mandate-immunity committee shall unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament the decision to suspend, during the term of its term of office, the authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against MP Željko Kerum on the private case of Damir Petrovic of Split for the offence of the offence referred to in Article 199i of the criminal offence referred to in Article 200. Penalty law. Namely, in the case of private prosecutors as well as in cases where the injured person, as a subsidiary prosecutor, enters the position of a state attorney because the lawyer found that there is no basis for the initiation or conduct of the criminal proceedings, the Committee proposes that the Croatian Parliament be denied the authorisation, and the criminal proceedings may be initiated after the end of the term of office, given that the limitation does not run until there are justified reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98334	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision was taken unanimously with 111 votes in favour, no abstentions and nothing against. Here's your esteemed president.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98335	At its 47th session held on 30 January 2015, a written statement by MP Nikola Vuljanić of 26 January 2015 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duty in accordance with the provision of Article 14(3). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Commission found that the stay of the parliamentary term of office of Nikola Vuljanić started on 1 July 2013 on the basis of Article 14. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament and the same day Nenad Pleše began acting as deputy deputy MPs. The Commission has established that the conditions laid down in Article 14(2) and (3) have been met. The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament to suspend the term of office of MP Nikola Vuljanić and is the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposed to the Croatian Parliament to decide to suspend the term of office of MP Nikola Vuljanić from the date of 3 February 2015 and to suspend the conduct of MP Nenada Dance from the date of 3 February 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98336	Thank you very much, esteemed president. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 111 votes in favour, and I do not apologize. What? We'll repeat the vote to make it right. Please vote on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that unanimously with 110 votes for the proposed decision, nothing abstentions, nothing against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98337	We're going to vote. First - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please submit a report to the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to my colleague Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98338	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed a written statement at the 48th session held on 5 March 2015 on the resignation of MP Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time of his election should he resign until Articles 11 and 25. The law states that a representative whose term of office has ceased to be replaced by a deputy representative appointed by a political party. Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić was elected representative of the 7th Assembly of the Croatian Assembly of the SDP, the Croatian Liberal Democrats, the IDS and the Croatian Party of Retired in the 6th Election Unit, and was appointed by the Social Democratic Party of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament as deputy representative of Boris Kovačić. As the conditions for the termination of the parliamentary term of Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić have been laid down by law, and by setting out its deputy and legal conditions for the start of the conduct of Deputy Representative Borislav Kovacic, we propose to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the termination of the representative's term of office, Vesna Fabiančić-Krisanić, on 6 March 2015, and to start acting as deputy representative from the date of 6 March 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98339	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Before we approach the vote, please determine the quorum. I'm confirming we have a quorum. And now we join the vote on the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I find that the report has been accepted unanimously with 101 votes. I would like to welcome you to my colleague Kovačić on his return to the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] We move to - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please, colleague Gordan Sobol President of the Commission to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98341	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed a written statement at the 49th session held on 18 March 2015 on the resignation of MP Željko Saba addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the end of the time he was elected if he resigns while Articles 11 and 25 of the Law determines that a representative whose term of office has ceased to be replaced by a deputy representative appointed by a political party. Željko Sabo was elected representative of the 7th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament from the list of SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU in the 5th constituency and SDP is in accordance with Article 25(2). The Law on Elections was designated by Josip Krnić as deputy representative. The commission found that the resignation of Zeljko Saba was met by law with the conditions for the termination of his representative's term of office and by the establishment of his deputy and legal conditions for the start of the conduct of Deputy Deputy Josip Krnić's office and therefore I propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Decision on the termination of the representative's term of office of Representative Zeljko Saba and the start of the conduct of deputy representative Josip Krnić. By way of derogation from Article 10(4) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the European Parliament and the Council are to be appointed by the European Parliament and the Council within the meaning of Article 10(4) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be suspended on the date on which the Parliament decides on its termination, or on the present day of 20 March 2015, and the parliamentary duty in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act as Deputy Representative Josip Krnić, also on 20 March 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98342	Thank you very much. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. ... Yeah, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And now I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Let's approach the vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 103 votes, a proposed decision has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98343	Elections, appointments and resolution. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Honored Fellow Shim Lucin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98344	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Today's proposals for decisions of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament were adopted at the 37th session held on 28 January 2015. Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. As a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Assembly of the Catholic Church, Dr Neven Šimac is named.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98345	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 103 votes in favour and 1 abstention and nothing against the proposed decision. Here's your Honorable board president.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98346	Thank you. Proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the "Ivan Filipovic" award committee and to suspend the term of office of president and members of the "Ivan Filipovic" award committee. The Committee of the Awards "Ivan Filipović" names: as president of Prof. Dr. Walter Boluncic, for the members of Dr. Boris Jokic, Josip Krunic, Mr. Sanja Urek, Prof. Dr. Snježana Prijic Samardžija, Sunčica Žigić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Strugar, Zdenka Chukelj and Zlatko Stić. Two, members of the "Ivan Filipović" Award Committee, appointed from the beginning of the term of office on 28 September 2012, ceased its term of office during the legal period of two years on 28 September 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98347	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 101 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the applicant. We have exhausted the subject of decision-making and work in the plenary session today. I schedule that we continue the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on 4 February at 9.30 p.m., at the point of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Security and Interoperability of the Railway System, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 779. The second is the Proposal for a Law on Croatian Sign Language and in a row. Thank you very much. Every good thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98348	We're going to the elections, appointments and resolutions of my colleague Shim Lucin's board president to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98349	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. These proposals were adopted at its 38th session held on 12 February 2015. The first proposal is a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, Ilija Filipovic, is resolved on a personal request. Secondly, Davor Milicevic is elected member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98350	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please join the vote. I find it with 79 votes to make the decision. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98351	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. First, Nikola Vuljanić is elected member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee. Second, on 3 February 2015, a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee stopped acting as Nenad Pleše because of the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98352	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please approach the vote. I find that, unanimously, with 79 votes, the decision is accepted. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98353	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament Zlatko Tušak is hereby authorised. Secondly, a member of the European Parliament's Committee on European Affairs is elected Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98354	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please approach the vote. I find it unanimous, with 78 votes in favour, a decision has been taken. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98355	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament, Ilija Filipovic, is dismissed on a personal request. Secondly, Ante Jerolimov is elected member of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98356	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please approach the vote. I find that with 79 votes for a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98357	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is elected Nikola Vuljanić. Second, on 3 February 2015, a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Nenad Pleše because of the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98358	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please approach the vote. I find it unanimous with 79 votes for a decision. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98359	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, Ilija Filipovic, is dismissed on a personal request. Secondly, Šimo Djurdjevic is elected as a member of the Croatian Parliament's Presentation and Appeals Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98360	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate and I'm asking you to join the vote. I find it unanimous with 78 votes for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98361	Proposal for a decision to appoint two members of the University Council of the University of Zagreb. For members of the University Council of the University of Zagreb are named: academician Željko Reiner and Prof. Dr. Iron Lucky Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98362	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please approach the vote. I find it unanimous with 79 votes for a decision. That concludes the vote. I announce the continuation of the session on 18 February at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final draft law supplementing the law on the representativeness of associations, employers and trade unions. Thank you very much and goodbye!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98363	- Selection, appointment and resolution of the President of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Honored colleague Shim Lucin to submit a report to the Committee. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98364	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a decision on the election of vice-presidents and members of the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee established the proposal at its 39th session on 25 February for the election, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament. 1. The vice-presidents of the State Election Commission of Croatia are elected: Vesna Fabiančić Križanić and Ana Lovrin. 1. Members of the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia are elected: Slaven Hojski, Emil Tomljanović and Josip Vresk. 1. The term of office of Vice-Presidents and members of the Committee shall begin on the day of entry into office, and shall take place on the day of their oath before the President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98365	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98366	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, it is regrettable that when proposing such serious candidates, the committee did not introduce the practice of public hearings and talks with candidates. And if colleague Novak was a member of the board, it was rejected, but good. What I've reported primarily is this. It is not clear from the documents submitted by the Committee to the Assembly whether all candidates comply with the requirements laid down by law. In this regard, the Law on the State Election Commission in Article 8 to which it is called and the Committee to give this proposal are laid down the following conditions for someone to be elected. I quote Article 8: "For a vice-president who is not from the order of judges and members of the Committee may be elected a citizen of the Republic of Croatia with residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia who has general electoral right, is a graduate lawyer, has 10 years of working experience in the profession, knows the political and electoral system and is not a member of any political party." From the attached résumés, from all documents received by only one candidate fulfils all the conditions laid down in Article 8 of this Act, which is Mr Slaven Hojski, who is the only member in his résumé I am not a member of any political party. I can assume for one of the candidates, another, that he is not a member of any political party because he has so far acted as a member of the State Election Commission. It is candidate Josip Vresk who unfortunately in his résumé has not spoken out, so I assume he is not a member of any political party either. For any other candidate in the résumé or in the documents of the Committee, there is no word on the fulfilment of all the conditions laid down in Article 8 of the Law and, therefore, on behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourers, I suggest that the parties of the work be postponed to vote on the selection of members of the National Election Commission, and that, in the meantime, the Committee of Directors shall verify whether the candidates proposed comply with the conditions laid down in Article 8 of the Law. Otherwise, if this approach to the vote remains a uncertainty, we remain at risk of the Assembly taking the choice of candidates without a credible determination of compliance with the requirements laid down by the law. I don't think the Parliament should allow itself to choose such an important body as the State Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98367	Thank you, too. Any other interested in the debate? He's got Damir Cain. Dear Representative Damir Cain, here you are. Go to the pay phone, dear. You're giving up, okay. Here you go, Mr. President. What? Comrade Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98368	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, I could have been one minute from the scene. Yes, the gentlemen of the left and right bloc have clearly agreed, and if anything, here's about these appointments of one political harmony of the government. And that's nice, that's promising. Now how will the citizens accept it is another matter. But it would be just as good if you agreed on the constitutional judges' candidacy. Is that constitutional judges can function in this existing way, but it would be good to take responsibility for their appointment as well. I'm going back to the topic, Mr. President, and I'm going to say that according to the oatmeal and existing practice, and I'm going to vote for these proposals. [[Break President: Comrade Cain, come back to the topic.]] It is a common parliamentaryism, but it is hard to talk about gentlemen and political neutrality. All these candidates who appear clearly to be politically committed, and whether someone points out, apostrophe of their party membership or not, you can hang a cat on the tail anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98369	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Agent Cain. Chairman of the board, please welcome President Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98370	Just for a little while. Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to some kind of political arrangement, yes, because I'm going to warn you about the law. Article 7 of this Law makes it clear to me how members of the DIP are elected. So three-thirds. One third from the Supreme Court, one third from the parliamentary majority and one third from the opposition. As for the complete, or incomplete documentation, I apologize. Since I guess that's what all the members mean, so that's what we sent their candidacy to you and what they proposed today have signed and made statements that they are not members of political parties. I mean, it never happened that this committee sent a regular procedure here for a parliamentary session of candidates who don't meet the conditions, because that would be a violation of the law or the Rules of Procedure. Since one member stated, then, in a statement in his résumé that he is not a member of the party, it simply created a confusion. But since it's a dozen, we haven't sent over 15 documents. But the board members had the opportunity to see all the documents and therefore, responsibly here, I declare that all the candidates who are here today have submitted statements that they are not members of any political party.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98371	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 104 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 5 votes against the taken decision is fully in line with the proposal of the Committee on Elections, Appoints. Congratulations to the elected, I want them to have no objection to election processes and to decide in accordance with the law and the Constitution. We're going to other decisions, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98372	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on discharge and selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. 1. A member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament Davor Milicevic is hereby dismissed. 2. For a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Joseph Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98373	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision was taken unanimously with 112 votes, nothing abstentions and nothing against the text as proposed by the committee. Number two?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98374	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of vice-presidents and the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. 1. The Vice-President of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Goran Maric. 2. Davor Milicevic is elected vice-president of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee. 3. A member of the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament Davor Miličević is hereby authorised. 4. A member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament is elected Dr. Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98375	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 108 votes, nothing abstentions and nothing against the proposed decision being made in the text as proposed by the committee. Decision No. Three?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98376	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the election of the Vice-President and the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. 1. The Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament Martin Dalic is hereby resolved. 2. The Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament is elected by Dr. Goran Maric. 3. Member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament Dr. Goran Maric. 4. Branko Juričev-Martinchev is elected member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98377	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 99 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and nothing against decisions made in the text as proposed by the motion. Decision No. 4th, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98378	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and the selection of a member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. 1. A member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Assembly Nevenka Bečić is hereby authorised. 2. Branko Hrg is elected member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98379	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 102 votes, nothing abstentions and nothing against the proposed decision being made in the text as proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98380	And we move to - Elections, appointments and resolutions please the chairman of the board, fellow Shim Lucin to propose a appointment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98381	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Today's proposals were adopted at its 40th session by the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. The first is the Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament. First, Gordan Sobol is elected as a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee. Second, on 6 March 2015, a member of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić due to the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98382	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a decision to adopt. I find that, unanimously, with 96 votes, the proposed decision has been made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98383	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Right, members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament Josip Vukovic and Dr Zeljko Jovanovic are dismissed. Secondly, for the members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Ana Komaric Devčić and Borislav Kovačić are elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98384	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving the proposed decision to adopt. I find that, unanimously, with 92 votes, the proposed decision has been taken. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98385	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the selection of members and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Vesna Sabolić, is being resolved. Secondly, the members of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee are elected Dr Zeljko Jovanovic and Nada Turina-Đuric. Thirdly, on 6 March 2015, a member of the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98386	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a decision to adopt. I find that most of the votes, 94 for and 1 against, the proposed decision has been taken. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98387	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, Gordan Sobol, is hereby authorised. Secondly, Karolina Leaković is elected as a member of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98388	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Let's vote on the proposed decision. I find that, unanimously, 93 votes, the proposed decision has been adopted. We're asking for a co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98389	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. 1. A member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament Vesna Sabolić is hereby dismissed. 1. A member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament is elected Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98390	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a decision for adoption. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes 93 for, 2 against, the proposed decision has been adopted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98391	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament is elected Borislav Kovacic. Second, on 6 March 2015, a member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić because of the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98392	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a decision for adoption. I find that a proposed decision has been adopted unanimously with 93 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98393	Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Vice-President and the termination of the mandate of the Vice-President of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. First, Marija Lugaric is elected vice-president of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. Second, on 6 March 2015, the President of the National Council for Monitoring the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy ceased to act as Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić due to the termination of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98394	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a decision for adoption. I find that, unanimously, 93 votes for the proposed decision has been adopted. We've got more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98395	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of the Head of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation. First, the Head of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation Dragutin Lesar is resolved on a personal request. Secondly, Branko Vuksic is elected head of the Croatian Parliament delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98396	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a decision for adoption. I find it unanimous with 97 votes for a decision. And we still have one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98397	Proposal for a decision to resolve members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative. A member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative Dragutin Lesar is being resolved on a personal request.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-30-0.u98398	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a decision for adoption. Okay? I find that, unanimously with 98 votes for the decision, it has been made. Our colleagues and colleagues will continue the session on March 25th at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the Proposal for a consumer bankruptcy law. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
