ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96462	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club for 10 minutes due to the state of the Croatian Railway System. We had a protest last week at Mark's square on Thursday. At the same time, the minister held a press conference denying the demands of workers and their allegations, to today's media confirm that workers are right and that the minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96463	All right, we got it. We'll take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96464	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96465	Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96466	Thank you very much. We are also looking on behalf of the HDSSB Club for 10 minutes, but because of the motherly relationship between HZ and Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96467	HH again?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96468	HH.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96469	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96470	For the same reasons Mladen Novak listed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96471	HH. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96472	HH.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96473	And the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96474	About opportunities in the Croatian economy and compos.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96475	Please, dear colleague, rise. Please! Dear colleague Cain, would you repeat this in the microphone for history? And get up, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96476	All right, all right. About economic opportunities in the Republic of Croatia and as gentlemen Club representatives are also looking for a few sentences about... [[Invader President: Can you stand up, colleague Cain?]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96477	Nothing's written down. Please rise and repeat. Come on, come on, come on, come on, That's it, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96478	Yeah, it was on. Nothing then, Mr. President, once again about the economic opportunities in the Republic of Croatia and higher demands from the HDZ Club to inform them about the current activities around the Buzet compost. Is he all right?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96479	Damir Cain. How am I supposed to call it one sentence from my colleague Cain? I'm not imaginative enough to put in one sentence. But I respect the demands under parliamentary practice. We'll take a break. At 9.50. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] I'd like representatives of the clubs on the subject they announced to present their views. The first is the respected representative Mladen Novak on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96481	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. A few days ago, more precisely last week, three trade unions operating on the Croatian railways organised a protest to point to the systematic destruction of Croatian railways, and mainly to one section, a section called the railways. And at the same time or somehow at that time, the Croatian Railways Administration, which normally makes up the assembly of this society, held a press conference attended by Minister Doncic, and at that time the minister makes a statement: "There is no reason for the protest, but I am sorry, some people will be out of a job." So it's just that the fact that people are going to lose their jobs is already giving them the right to protest and to rebel. On the other hand, the fact is that the protest was organised by three unions that have, in my information, some 6 thousand members and also points to the fact that the protest is justified. However, what the Minister and HZ Administration have mentioned here in the press is that the company makes 95% of the income from HZ infrastructure, which means that it is income from the state budget, and it is literally said that these are taxpayers' funds. Such a company that works three times as expensive and a company that's the only one that hasn't been restructured. Well, that's without any fences, those are really faceless lies. First and foremost, this company was restructured, after restructuring, it was added 750 people from HZ infrastructure. 95% of jobs only now have HZ infrastructure for the reason that these 750 people are now being added to the work of maintaining railway infrastructure, which is why the state is obliged to manage the infrastructure to do the job. That's what the state's obligation is. Public buildings were founded in 2002, and in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 they operate positively and show a profit of €200 million, they have arranged jobs the moment Minister Hajdas wants to sell them out of 2 billion kuna. And then he sells them for 250 million kuna. Various companies appear in the competition, among other things in one association, and these "Pružne gratins" are part of a conditional consortium, pass in the first part, in the first round of competitions and then by decision of the administration, the infrastructure moves them out of the process. To what end? Today we read in the media that two offers have arrived and both are unquality. Has the minister announced that one offer is more expensive than 350 million kuna? And that the other one actually fell out of the game because the Spring Building was part of that consortium? In whose interest does this minister work, and what does he do it for? Do you, I'd like to know if the prime minister is aware of what the minister is doing, and if it is then it is primarily the prime minister's responsibility. And if this is not his information by who knows which times from this place you are doing and why is it that I ask myself why the Croatian Railway system is systematically destroyed? I hope that, after all, there will be another information, 25 projects offered by the Croatian Railways. What stage are these projects now? We had yesterday or yesterday the information of the Greek 77 projects was announced, and now we're down to 25. How many railways were dropped in this difference between 25 and 77? It would be the most correct and fairest in the style of these new bickerings that I also invite the prime minister but also primarily the minister and the management of the Croatian Railways to step aside, to resign or to be replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96482	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Kresimir Bubalo on behalf of the HDSSB club on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96483	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues are namely HZ, but we from the HDSSB Club were looking for a break precisely because of the maternal relationship of HZ towards Slavonia and Baranja. Is it well we remember the prime minister's words that he will take care of Slavonia and Baranja, he even mentioned the hand, but here I doubt the minister probably did it to him from behind or the director of HZ. But these days, in conversations with fellow citizens in Osijek, but also according to Slavonia and Baranja, what we are particularly concerned about is that Slavonia and Baranja remained neglected again when I talk about HZ. We often negotiated about HZ but exactly what happened, which is that the price of tickets for Split reduced 50%, for Rijeka 50%, and I will tell you about Split from 208 to 104, for Rijeka from 129 to 64 kuna, and Osijek remained on 149 kuna. So we ask ourselves, Osijek and Slavonia and Baranja, why is that, why is the discount for Split introduced? It is cheaper to travel from Zagreb to Split than from Zagreb to Osijek, and we know that there are fewer kilometers. Well, there's an unequal position here, and that's exactly what I want to talk about. Looking at Slavonia and Baranja as a region that is in a difficult situation, looking exactly at people going after bread with their stomachs, looking exactly at how people see their chance in Zagreb, and then Slavonia and Baranja need to increase their prices. But looking at that right now, I'm saying that it's a law of connected vessels. Last year, somewhere in the fourth month, I talked about it in the Croatian Parliament that numerous lines are being removed for Slavonia and Baranja, so when we see that bus lines are much cheaper than the railway lines from Zagreb to Osijek, then it will happen again that in rail transport there will be a reduction of passengers, and I want to say from this pay phone in the 28 EU countries only the Republic of Croatia recorded a fall in passenger transport. And why is that? Just because neither the Minister nor the Government is taking care of Slavonia and Baranja and then Slavonia and Baranja will be told there are fewer and fewer passengers, which is because of the price, people on the bus are leaving, so we'll cut some more lines. So people from Slavonia and Baranja must have equal standing, have the same chance and don't have the same chance. So when we look at the connection, when we look at the investment, when we look at the last 102, 103 years that nothing nearly invested in Slavonia and Baranja when we talk about rail transport, then we have to wonder if Maria Teresa was the only one taking care of Slavonia and Baranja? And when we look at this machete relationship compared to connection, all we can say is that we have a machete government. Slavonia and Baranja are clearly protesting and seeking a thematic debate and that the minister is clearly on this, but what also hurts us not only about the discount, for the price of tickets, nothing is done at the crossing points, our people are killed. Well, there are only 12 unprotected spring crossings in Osijek alone, although we have often offered hand-to-hand cooperation to go and partnerly solve this problem. That I'm not even talking about a station that looks like it's from the 18th and we've made a supervisor for the 21st. He is also an underpass on the street of Leopold Bogdan Mandic. On isolation, on the reduction of the number of lines, it is therefore not seen the interest of HZ to invest in Slavonia and Baranja, and what appears to be relative to the price of the tickets clearly wants to reduce the number of passengers in railway transport and to cut the lines. That's what we say in the HDSSB a lot, and we're asking for the minister to be seen on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96484	Thank you too, dear colleague. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96485	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The colleagues have previously asked a question which I may be more clearly formulating, which is what the Government wants with the Croatian Railways? What kind of Croatian railway does Croatian railways want, and does they even want Croatian railways owned by the state? The state should do everything possible to its management company, which is not bad, which has shown its expertise, and has also shown that it is able to do business positively. Now imagine another situation that the French minister in charge of transport lays down trees and stones on a company that is indirectly managed by people appointed by the state and that this French minister in charge of transport speaks the most selected negative words about the company he is in charge and that he is talking about how this company will not get a job but will get a job from outside. The example of Slovenia proves something else, that money from European funds can also be given a job to a state-owned company. We need to find, we always find in the laws of the hole, we need to find the smallest hole to hire a state-owned company, but that's what the vice president of the Croatian government was saying, the former first prime minister of the Croatian government is a bad master. The same second he was supposed to say the state is a bad master, I'm a bad first Deputy Prime Minister resigning, I can't do that. Or sell what's in the portfolio and give everything on the drum if the people don't rebel against it. So if it's unimaginable that in any democratic state, a state-owned company is deprived of work and that someone else, imagine that in France they assign a job, build their own company and assign a job to the British or Croatian firms and say our company is bad, our company can't do business, our company isn't restructured. Look out, the minister says it's not restructured, the railway structures aren't restructured. So why didn't they? So who needs to be restructured, someone else? Who will come, the French, the English, the Icelandics? Who will come and restructure if it isn't restructured? It's simple, it's just like it's about two different sides, like it's about us and you. And what he's saying is he's going to be out of a job. And it's gonna be a non-chalant jobless job, no bread. They won't have a few hundred families of bread. And what's going to happen? Nothing. Nothing, it's the most normal thing to lose work and give some foreign company that money that could stay in Croatia to stay in Croatia, to feed on Croatian families and that Croatian workers get jobs in the Croatian state. No member of the European Union prefers others in front of its own. The first thing it does is it tries and largely manages to hire its own and only then does it enable its market capitalism to enable others if it cannot do business with its resources. The spring buildings, nothing has been proven that they can't do that job, that they're not capable, that they're not trained, so they're both professional and they've proven they know, but there's a will of a minister who says they won't get a job, they'll get fired. It is one message to Croatian workers, you will not work in Croatia, they will not give you a state job, you will be fired. I think you should fire someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96486	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96487	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So Croatian railways may be the most spectacular example of how this government works, i.e. It's not working. Because if the government had implemented structural reforms in the Croatian Railways, then there wouldn't have been a lot of these. But at the same time, the government daily bombes the Croatian public with a story of reforms being carried out. So this is a typical example. Because if that had happened, we wouldn't be talking about this today. The second thing, when we talk about EU funds, is another example of how this government works and how it deceives the public, if Croatia had any opportunity to withdraw funds, they were Croatian railways. And if the railway line was something that was practically over, the government had to insist on it from day one and certainly could withdraw money for it. So this is another question on which, through this topic, the Croatian public gets an answer to how effective the government is, i.e. inefficient as regards the withdrawal of European funds. Three years ago, however, Croatian railways were once again a white example of how this did not happen. Why? Because the position of 2 billion and 800 million held at the Ministry of Transport, which was intended for Croatian railways, has been reduced somewhere to billions and 100, billion and 200 million kuna. But what happened? To show to the European Commission that expenditure and support to state-owned enterprises have been reduced, several billion guarantees have been issued to the ESA 2010 practically since this year's deficit of the state budget. So again, the government was selling fog to Croatian citizens, so HZ workers, who are actually the most affected and also to the European Commission. The privatisation and desire of this government to certain companies that it considers necessary to privatise that I can go to the HZ market is a typical example of how it relates, start with HZ CARGO and beyond. And when you add all that together, then you have to remember what HH's working ratio was in 2004. My colleagues and colleagues, your employment ratio is in principle as much as on the kuna of the earned Croatian railway which had not been restructured should have been obtained from the state budget to be able to exist, so the employment ratio was 2.85, the kuna had to be given 2.85. And the logical thing is that the state with certain support wants to keep a certain transport and what my colleague was talking about before me. So if the state wants something then the state subsidizes it. Can't be the state because something wants to bring in a company that's owned by it in a minus. But then you see it clearly through the budget, you don't have to do it under the grain one way or another. I repeat, HH is a typical example of how structural reforms have not been implemented, that there was no knowledge and strength to do what needs to be done, that there was no knowledge and strength to withdraw funds from the European Union and today we are where we are. Line-up buildings. Whether a company that has knowledge, that has people, that definitely does, and a job someone just easy to say, you can't do that job because you're in conflict of interest. And who in Croatia is educated, who has people, who has mechanisms that can do this job? So why didn't the government own it because if we're talking about a few billion in the next few years we're going to invest in HZ's infrastructure, then the logical thing is that the company that employs a thousand and a few other people who know how to do the job is the biggest candidate to do the job. And you know what's gonna happen? What happened when we had, I will say it openly here, when we had from pre-accession funds that other strip of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railway, when virtually no Croatian company could compete got one foreign company and then Croatian companies were subcontractors. So that cream and that nice profit at that job was picked up by someone else, obviously someone in the interest of having the same story happen now. And to conclude on behalf of the HDZ Club, so I'm going to repeat for the third time, this is a typical example of how this government is doing, it's talking about implementing structural reforms, but it's not implementing them because what happened to them wouldn't happen. Also, if not for the reduced expenditure of the state budget as is said but for what was once a transparent expenditure on positions in the state budget has been converted into several billion guarantees that will eventually be paid by Croatian citizens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u96488	Thank you, too. It is now on the agenda - Proposal for a referendum law, first reading, P.Z. No. 769. – Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System Please present a representative, i.e. the President of the Committee of Honored Representative Pejo Grbin, to give an introductory explanation of the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101363	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In late September 2014, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system opened a public debate on the proposal for a referendum law which lasted a month and was completed in early November 2014. During the debate, a thematic and then regular session of the committee was held, and the text of the draft law lies ahead, a report with the public debates which took into account the comments, proposals and suggestions made during the debate. In a few words, I'm going to try to sum up what brings us this proposal for a new referendum law. In the Republic of Croatia, the referendum is as a form of direct democracy, i.e. direct participation of citizens in decision-making primarily governed by the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, further provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic, and provisions of the Law on referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and regional (regional) self-government. The obligation to adopt a new, or at least amended referendum law arises from the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which have changed in relation to the existing referendum law, but has also been referred to by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 20 October 2010 when it stated that the legislative structure of the referendum does not provide for pre-prescripted legal rules which are general, predictable and for their addressees certain as regards the legal consequences of taking place, and how it is necessary to achieve legal consistency of the referendum law in the domestic legal order. We therefore propose today the adoption of a new Law on a referendum in line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as with decisions made by the Constitutional Court over the last few years, and also with what we have noticed in practice that it does not work. I'll make it perfectly clear again. This law cannot change what constitutional matter is, we cannot define the number of signatures needed to call a referendum because it is defined by the Constitution. We cannot define forbidden topics beyond what already stems from the Constitution and decisions of the Constitutional Court. We also cannot define the number of citizens who went to the state referendum to be considered valid because it is also constitutional matter. We tried that and unfortunately there was no hearing of all political options, that what is crucial to the functioning of the referendum in the Republic of Croatia is changing. As I have already noted, this law is therefore primarily in line with the provisions of the Constitution relating to the majority of decisions needed in a referendum with provisions on how to vote beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Also with the issue of the advisory referendum introduced in 2010 into the constitutional matter. In view of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which reads: "The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia determines: any future request for a referendum to be submitted to the Croatian Parliament pursuant to Article 87(3). The Constitution must contain a detailed overview of the facts and circumstances which led to the referendum issue in the proposed content, and a sufficient and relevant explanation of the reasons why the referendum is to be called for." The first major change in this referendum law refers precisely to that. The way to make a decision is defined when citizens decide that they want to join the call for a referendum on the basis of a citizens' or a national initiative. Such a decision will have to be explained in a similar way as all other legal acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament are justified. It will have to state the reasons, the reasons for the decision will have to be given and the consequences will have to be stated by adopting the referendum issue. Any referendum that does not meet these conditions will not be allowed, as stated by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in its decision. The following provision, which has already created a number of obstacles in practice, is a provision that stipulates that decisions cannot be taken in a referendum that would jeopardise the values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, decisions contrary to the principle of EU law enforcement, and local referendums and decisions contrary to the Constitution, EU legal acts and the law. With regard to local referendums, it is clear that we cannot bring what is in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament at a local referendum. However, the opposition appeared on these other two provisions, provisions concerning EU law and provisions concerning the value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. We didn't make this up. We didn't define this for the first time in this law. Such provisions exist first and foremost in the decisions of the Constitutional Court which clearly stipulated that no decision can be made in the referendum, even when it comes to amending the Constitution on issues which would undermine the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, such as gender equality, national equality, etc. In addition, the provision concerning EU law stems from clearly established practice of the EU Court of Justice but also from the Declaration annexed to the Lisbon Treaty adopted at the Lisbon Conference which clearly states EU law is superior to national law of the Member States and Member States are not authorised to adopt acts contrary to Community law. In this context, we consider our obligation in one place to define what is allowed in the referendum in order not to ask our citizens who are preparing to collect signatures for a specific referendum initiative to list decisions of the Constitutional Court, decisions of the EU Court. In one place, we have systematized what already exists in practice. The following topic, which was regulated by this referendum law, which also caused public opposition, is the issue of setting out support for calling a referendum when voters ask for it. Proposers of this law are of the opinion that the current way of collecting signatures has opened a whole series of doubts. I would like to remind you, Article 8c of the current referendum law stipulates that signatures should only be collected in those places designated by the representative body of the unit of local self-government. So, in the current law, we had a restriction on places where signatures could be collected. However, we all know that no one respected this restriction. The signatures were collected not only in those areas that were not foreseen for this, such as religious institutions, such as educational institutions, etc., the signatures were collected at workplaces and houses. It was forbidden by law but there were no mechanisms to prevent it. With this law, we propose to introduce a new way of collecting signatures. A way to ensure that all citizens are able to support a particular referendum initiative, but it will also prevent someone from putting pressure on citizens to sign for a referendum in their workplace, in their homes, schools or religious institutions. This law proposes collecting signatures in two ways. One way is to collect signatures online, via the Internet. According to statistics available, 97% of households in the Republic of Croatia have the ability to connect to the Internet. On the weekly base of 2/3 of Croatian citizens use the Internet. In this way, everyone will be able to support the referendum initiative not only from their home but through the application available to all mobile phones. But so no one can peer over his shoulder and force him to sign something or not. For non-informational citizens, written support for the referendum initiative will be provided through the system and network of the Office of State Administration or local referendums through units of local self-government. The current network of the Office of State Administration covers over 300 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. Unlike this network, previous referendum initiatives have never collected signatures in all local self-government units in Croatia. The last referendum initiative, for example in my Istria, north of Mirna did not collect signatures anywhere. Today, citizens living in Umag and Bujam will also have a much easier opportunity to sign not only online but also through the Office of State Administration every referendum initiative. But much more important than that, this way of collecting signatures is the result of a monopoly with certain organisations that have so far only had the opportunity to collect 10% of support from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Today, under the same conditions as trade unions, as well as church organisations and political parties, many others will be able to join the organisation of referendum initiatives and have the same opportunity to collect signatures. Since there has been a suspicion that this wants to limit the collection of signatures and prevent referendums, it is also proposed to extend the deadline for collecting signatures from 15 calendar days to 30 working days, i.e. from 2 to 6 weeks. The other provisions of this law have not caused so much public attention, but I still think they should be mentioned. First of all, this law regulates the issue of campaigns for referendums. So, campaigns when the signings are being held, but also campaigns after the referendum issue has been defined and after the decision to call a referendum has been made, even when it is not a fruit of the voter's signing and support. The campaign is defined who is running the campaign, defined camp for, camp against referendums in the same way as it was in Scotland in a recent referendum on their independence or 20 years ago in Canada in a referendum on Quebec independence as perhaps two examples of best-organised referendum practices and two examples of the best-organised referendum campaign for or against. Furthermore, the issue of monitoring the referendum is being addressed, the issue of citizens voting in the referendum, etc. In short, this law systematically and systematically regulates the matter of the referendum. Orders are being introduced and all those issues which have been raised in practice, except for those which are unfortunately not and cannot be governed by the Law on Referendum, but only by the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101364	Thank you, too, dear colleague of the coat of honor. We've got eight replicas, so we'll do it in a row. The first replica of the respected representative, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101365	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I wish I could agree with you in your presentation, but I can't. This seems to me, in fact, to me, to be the proposal of the Law on the non-referencing of the referendum and on the refusal to hold a referendum. First of all, I would remind you that the president of your party, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, in the opposition, said that the threshold should be 5%, not 10% of the total number of voters included in the list of voters in the Republic of Croatia, and it is a bit odd that 15 years could not determine how many voters we have in Croatia, which is the number needed for the referendum to be valid. I disagree with you on the basis of Article 3. "There are restrictions under this bill," which in my opinion can only be given by the Constitution, i.e. there should be restrictions on the maintenance of the referendum, not in the law as provided for here. Likewise, if we really want to allow people a referendum and to put people's decision above any political majority, then this bill should be better than the existing one. It seems to me that the one you're proposing is completely and completely worse than the one we have today. If we really want to enable people's tools that if they are not satisfied to give what is said to the people to decide on some issues regardless of the existing system we have in the country, which we are representatives here, it has proved over 10 cases in the past 15 years that it has deliberately prevented any referendum in Croatia from being held except for the one we had on the definition of marriage. There will be still a chance to argue, there are many misunderstandings, regardless of what you've had public debate as you have said and that you have complied with some suggestions I don't think you've accepted a lot of good suggestions here and that we should really try to find a consensus on this important issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101366	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101367	My dad used to tell me a lot when I'd go too far with things that are too much and the butter is too much. My colleague Salapic, of all people, I would like to accept the criticism that we have failed to reduce the number of signatures required to 5% of you. For weeks, you and I have been preparing changes to the Constitution that envisioned a reduction in the number of signatures from the existing 10% to 200 grand. We've clearly defined that. And then what happened? At 5 to 12, the day before the vote, you and your party gave it up. And today you smile in the face of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia when you ask someone else to change what you have prevented. You're talking here today, you promised to cut the number of signatures, that we did, we did propose it, and in the end you stopped it. And it's legitimate, it's your full right but please don't come here after that and call us, call us for something you know very well why it didn't happen. As for other matters related to the referendum, the solution relating to the collection of signatures has been taken over from foreign legislation, it is not our invention. It was first and foremost taken over from the Slovenian legislation that has the best with Austria, the pardon with Switzerland has the largest number of referendums. So, the way to collect signatures in the Republic of Croatia, the way to collect support for each referendum is taken over from the Slovenian model, and that model, in my opinion, is at this point to collect citizens' best in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101368	Honorable representative of Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101369	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Grbin, after three years of office, this initiative of yours, but also because of the citizens' initiative, has been delayed as a proposal for this law, and you are aware of that. I will refer to article 3 of this law, where you say, "I cannot make decisions in a referendum that would endanger the values of the constitutional order.", I think we also insult Croatian citizens, and I don't think it's just the Parliament or your committee that should decide what should be a referendum initiative and it reminds you if you want those ideological committees from the past when it's said what is acceptable, what can be said and how it can actually behave. As regards Article 4 "The right decisions in this referendum have all citizens of 18 who have general and equal voting rights.", you know that it is not possible to make it either online or otherwise because Article 45. The Constitution says completely different in its paragraph 3 and this can only happen in the headquarters of diplomatic consular offices. And also related to Article 13, where you say, "The signatures for the state referendum are collected in the Offices of State Administration." It's actually a certain form of repression. I may be able to suggest to you that, apart from the Offices of the State Administration, you collect these signatures at police stations, so unless the referendum question suits you, those same people who sign there could be held for an informative interview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101370	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101371	Let's start with the last comment. I must apologize, before I spoke to my colleague Salapic, I forgot a country that was also a model for us, which is the Federal Republic of Germany. You probably know the Federal Republic of Germany completely prohibits referendums at a federal level for historical reasons but allows at a local level. The model we gave here is a model from a German federal province called Bavaria. Maybe you know him. Well, you probably know it because it's good for you when you take over the economic model from Bavaria, but it's not good for you when we take over from Bavaria the model of signing and the collected support for the referendum initiative. Compared to Bavaria, there is one difference, however, in Bavaria the collection of signatures lasts somewhat shorter than is provided for in this bill and how much I am known for the law we have recently reviewed is not possible online but only in their institutions. At the beginning of your replica, however, you said something very interesting, that by the provision of Article 3 we spat practically on the Croatian Constitution, we spat on Croatian citizens in person and I will now tell you that the provision of Article 3 of the words contained there is not mine, they have been prescribed from the Constitutional Court's statement of 14 November 2013 that I quote "The referendum question must not contain in its text a formal or material contradiction, or such a serious procedural error that threatens the violation of the structural features of the Croatian constitutional state, i.e. its constitutional identity, including the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia.". When you said the provision of Article 3 was wrong, you said the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia were wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101372	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Grbin, you have completed your presentation on the proposal for this law by establishing that the matter of the referendum is being systematically and systematically quoted. And at the very beginning, you have actually listed everything that this law does not actually regulate and which should be regulated by the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the key problem that we are discussing and which we have been dealing with for more than 3 years. So it's neither systemically nor systematically, nor finally with this law that's the one that's making us the most anxious and troubled. About the finding that by voting in the offices of the state administration, to prevent pressure on citizens, there's also something I want to say. I think it is quite the opposite because coming to the offices of the state administration, voting, or signing in front of officials who, as you have seen, are also opposed because they are asked by the union of civil servants and substitutes, which is with their right to freely express their will and sign for some referendum initiative. So that's not a good solution. It should leave that possibility for signatures to be collected in public places. Of course, by law, to limit near which an institution could not do so. As regards the limitations of the referendum issues, I agree here, you listed in Article 3 which are the restrictions relating to and the decision of the Constitutional One now. However, one key word of the law has been left out in this proposal because the bill speaks of values and also of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and this opinion of the Constitutional Court is about the highest values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as defined in Article 3. The Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101374	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101375	Thank you. Well, Mrs. Kosor, you didn't exactly quote me, I said that this law regulates what we can and is not constitutional matter, and that part is really systemically and systematically arranged. And I can't really say, let's just say you didn't try to contribute to that so we could change the Constitution and sort it out. Unfortunately, some have recently given up and we haven't succeeded, but the fact is that we tried and the fact is that we won't give up on that attempt. However, in this second part of your exposure, I cannot agree. First, it's not a vote in the offices of the state administration, it's a signature collection. And collecting signatures isn't just in the public administration offices, it's on-line. For this phone, there is already an application for e-Citizens. It requires 2 pressures on the mobile phone screen and a signature of support will be given. Like this, you don't have to go to the state administration's office if you don't want to, you can if you want to. In this way, we will ensure that everyone from their home, when they consider supporting a referendum. And at the end of the line, the law provides for campaigning, campaigning. They will, of course, take place on the streets and squares, and you will, if you find yourself standing in front of an initiative you want to support, be at an opportunity on the line via your smart phone to support that initiative. In Croatia we have more than 50% of citizens who use smartphones, we have more connections to phones, mobile phones than we have population numbers, we have two-thirds of citizens who use the Internet on a weekly basis. This method of collecting signatures is available, or more accessible than it was existing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101376	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101377	Dear colleagues, you have explained this anti-national law with very good and chosen words. I agree with you that without a change to the Constitution, the issue of the regulatory validity of the state referendum and the number of necessary signatures for it cannot be regulated by this law. But I also believe that the restrictions you are planning to introduce Article 3 cannot be the matter of this law but of the Constitution. And please, let me remind you when the SDP suggested that for a state referendum there would be 200 thousand signatures. I can't think of anything that you suggested, it's someone else's, not you. I don't know why it's so hard for you to say that. Secondly, what is allowed for the subject of a referendum decision was state-owned or local. You are aware that you and the SDP have personally blocked the initiative to amend the Constitutional Court Constitutional Law where I have proposed that the Constitutional Court's decision on the assessment of constitutionality or the authorisation of the issue be put in motion. And without the three changes to this amendment, the new Law on Referendum will not lead to the removal of suspicion of the permission of questions. And in the end, where do the signatures come together? Slovenia is your role model. How many signatures in Slovenia do you need for a national referendum? Secondly, why do you have to collect signatures in pubs, cafes, fairs, churches don't mind the election from presidents to locals, but do you mind if someone in the pub sign an initiative for a referendum? What's the difference in that signature? The value of the signature is the value of the signature. On-line signing. Dear Grbin, it may be worth it to you when 60% of voters are in the system of e-Citizens and today you do not have more than 100,000 in Croatia. Don't cloud people's truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101378	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101379	Thank you. If this referendum is unnatural, then international and non-democratic states are, for example, the Federal Republic of Germany and Belgium. Why, because at national level they don't know the referendums. Then they are non-democratic and unnatural Norway and Finland. Why, because at national level they do not know the referendums on the basis of the citizens' initiative and on the basis of the collection of signatures. Then it's an unnatural Italy that knows such a referendum but only to abolish the existing law. Croatian laws allow citizens and the adoption of laws, the adoption of other rules on the basis of a referendum initiative. We define this proposal how the decision will be taken, how citizens will be presented with what they actually decide, and not as we are still going to discuss today that they are told to decide on highways, and then that in the referendum issue, highways are not mentioned but bans spread on all public roads, will be defined in what way these campaigns will be run, presented and defined in how citizens will support a particular referendum initiative. We can call it a restriction, but I will remind you again, the number of locations where you can collect signatures on the network of units of local self-government where it will be possible to expand compared to all the referendums that have been organised in Croatia so far on the basis of the citizens' initiative. There is not a single referendum initiative that has collected signatures into 300 units of local self-government. If you look at the places where the signatures were collected, you will see that they have gathered in a far smaller number of municipalities and cities than they will now be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101380	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101381	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow coat of arms, I very much hope that what you said you didn't believe because if you believe it then it looks a little bit more hypocritical, especially this one of your last ones, and that's what you said in your opening statement about how the citizens were collecting or able to give signatures in one part of the local self-government units while others didn't. Do you have any information on how many local self-government units are in? You are aware that especially in rural areas, people will have to travel 50 miles and more in one direction in order to sign their own initiative somewhere in the state office. If it weren't for us all that happened in the past three years with the referendum initiatives by you as a representative here today, the Kukuriku coalition promoter, then even in some ways you might believe, and you have manipulated in ways to prevent citizens from deciding and helping you in your inability to do something better for this country. Is there anything stronger than citizens? It doesn't exist. With this proposal of yours, you definitely want to do something like do evil to the Croats in BiH. So they have to stand down in line and wait that'll be the turn to vote, so now you want to get people into the offices of the state administration to be there. If we are already talking about the number, it is not possible for the Constitution to determine the exact number, then it cannot be stipulated in the law that when an initiative is launched that the competent state body gives the correct number of voters from which 10% must be collected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101382	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101383	I will start from the end and thank you, I forgot in the opening statement to note that this bill defines that the body of the state administration, so at the beginning of each signing collection, must give the exact number of signatures to be collected for a particular referendum in order for the citizens to know and to avoid any misunderstandings. Thank you for reminding me that I didn't say that. Now, as far as the state administration's office is concerned, you asked how many there are. That's what I'm talking about. The state administration offices and their facilities exist around 330 in the Republic of Croatia. There are far more of them than there are locations where so far for any referendum have been collected signatures. I was talking about Istria. I was talking about the last referendum on how the signatures were being collected. I'm going to give you another example of the carlovak County, for example for the outsourcing referendum, the signatures didn't come together in Ozli, but they did in carlovac. The people who live beyond Oslja could not sign in Oslja because they did not gather there. For example... they had to travel to Karlovec. Today, they will be able to sign support in the establishment of a state administration in Ozla, if they are not informational written and if they do not want to give their support from their apartment, from their place of work, from any other location where they have access to the Internet and to the system of e-citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101384	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Josip Boris has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101385	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grbin, I am really interested in why we are even changing this law because it turns out by your opening statement that we are having a hard time achieving the possibility of calling a referendum, i.e. to make it difficult for people to sign and thus create a sufficient number of signatures for the referendum to be called. And now you're offering amendments to the law that will make it easier. You are a living example that you have earned in 3 years 5 referendums without any problem. So what's the basic reason why we're even changing the law, whether we're going to make it easy or make it harder for a referendum because this law shows that five of them are doing it without a problem. I would like to remind you: Cyrillic, marriage referendum, electoral law, highways, outsourcing, etc. So we've accomplished it without a problem, we just have to carry out the procedure until the end. And now we remember and say, now we'll do even better by you entering the offices of the state administration, gentlemen, and you'll still be able to sign some e-signature from your comfortable houses or homes. Well, that's just a lie. And then you do it, i.e. You're giving the wrong facts. You say 90% of people have options, but there's a possibility, but they're not all connected to the Internet. Well, you're not gonna say that everyone in Croatia is on the Internet. That's not true. So they show statistics. We had a HACOM report recently that 65% of the mobile network in Croatia has been combined in the 25% movement and we are below all let's say the EU's borders. I only see this proposal as something that wants to be disabled, which is that people exercise their right to give their voice. a signature to make their wish come true. How you're going to do, here's your law on the possibility that someone from Premuda, from Olib, Silba and the remote islands, will get that signature. Well, there's mostly only an elderly person there. They have no internet, they have nothing, and the nearest Office of State Administration is in the town of Zadar or in some major city I don't know Lošinj, Dubrovnik, and it takes them a few days. And now they could do it I don't know near my house somewhere on the road, in the square, in the church, near the church, and nobody bothered.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101386	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101387	Dear colleagues, the signatures were not collected today at Premuda, Olib, etc. what you can see by looking at the tables that all the organisations that collected the signatures have provided. You say it was a possibility. There was no possibility because the signatures there were not being collected, and today these people, wherever the mobile network is available, have the ability to give their support via the phone. You've been providing certain data, so I'll remind you exactly what I said. 97% of households in the Republic of Croatia have the possibility to connect to the broadband Internet, 97%. You said 65% of households are connected. That's exactly the number, namely 65% is 2/3 that I listed. 2/3 of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia at the moment, pardon not at this time but according to the 2013 data, because these data from HACOM came from 2013, so two years ago 2/3 of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia accessed the internet on a weekly basis. With all due respect after two years, I think that number is even bigger. Now, you started your line with the question why are we changing this law? Because we must, we must change it because the obligation to adopt a new law or to amend an existing law stems from the constitutional law on amendments to the Constitution adopted by this Parliament four years ago. Furthermore, the obligation which I read in my opening statement, the recommendation of the Constitutional Court, stems from the decisions of the Constitutional Court which pointed out that the referendum framework was unregulated. We must pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101388	Thank you too, dear colleague. Honorable representative Gordan Jandrokovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101389	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague of the coat of honor. So I'd start from the very beginning, so how did the initiative start and when you started discussing the need to pass the referendum law. This happened after the first referendum of the Initiative on behalf of the family. Then came some other initiatives, and all that connected them, that they were directed countered by your government's decisions, against the policies and decisions represented by the ruling majority. So, the reason you went into this law is because most citizens have the opposite view of the decisions you have made and of the policy you have made. And today when we criticise you here, no one is saying that you're spreading space to hold a referendum, but you're narrowing it down. So it is clear to everyone that you want to disable in fact the referendum will of citizens and make it impossible for citizens to express their opinion directly. And it is a common denominator for all of us who are not satisfied with this proposal for a referendum law. I'm not going in because I don't have enough time in all the provisions that I consider controversial, but this provision that the signatures can only be collected on the line and in the Offices of the State Administration we cannot accept. You even said at one point that such a provision would be more accessible to the citizens than it is today. Well, that's absurd! If you want him and the line to collect signatures, no one will be against it, but to make it impossible for citizens to collect signatures in the open spaces, in the streets, in the squares, so it is contrary to the very expression of the will of citizens and peoples. So here really every well-intentioned one will say that your initiative around the online line makes some sense. But depriving the right to sign in open spaces is really the opposite of democracy. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101390	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101391	Thank you, Mr. President. So I'll repeat what I said to my esteemed colleague, Babic. Well, I really don't understand why Bavaria is a good model for your economic program, and it's not a good model for you to access democracy. Dear colleague, you didn't answer that. And now that you've said that this limits democracy and that this is undemocratic you're de facto I'll repeat, you said that non-democratic Belgium, Germany, Great Britain, Austria, Finland, Sweden, Norway, etc. That's what you said. That's a fact. But of course they're not. Of course, they are not non-democrats such as neither Croatia nor Croatia, nor will they be after the adoption of this law. With this law, we will only abolish the monopoly of those organisations that are able to because they have locations all over Croatia to organise mass signing gatherings always past the rules prescribed by the current law because they collected signatures by religious objects, collected signatures by educational facilities, collected signatures by workplaces, collected signatures by house. Everything that's been banned by law so far. In addition to you, a colleague, Davorin Mlakar, who pointed to serious violations of the law in 2010 during the first referendum initiative that collected a sufficient number of signatures in the Republic of Croatia. All that the esteemed colleague of the Mlakar as minister of the administration then pointed out we addressed this bill. Basically, this bill is based on a 2011 proposal from the Ministry of Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101392	Thank you too, dear colleague. I ask colleagues who disagree with the said to wait for the MP to finish because that's the only way we can hear each other, and that's how I can hear the citizens who represent us. Even when you disagree and you think it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong. And that's what the citizens need to hear. Be kind, be parliamentary, allow MPs to hear what they're saying. And now the esteemed representative Dinko Buric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101393	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't really know what kind of parallel universe you live in when you're trying to convince all of us that online signing and collecting signatures in public administration offices is a step forward in the referendum. Well, that has nothing to do with common sense. You come to us in Slavonia and Baranja, go to Cerovac village or Cret there, here's only some villages now, so see if you get a cell phone signal let alone connect to the Internet. Now let's see how you vote from there. And now let me not tell you what you think we're going to have to do all of Đakovština will only have to go to Đakovo to vote, the whole Valpostina to Valpovo, the whole ring around Osijek only to Osijek. And since you're going to have pensioners who first made it impossible, on the other hand, regardless of the health situation, they have to pay for the trip, they should be transported. So how are you trying to convince us that this is a step forward by comparing and citing examples of some other countries? Why don't we compare ourselves in our standard of living with those countries that you state, not in passing some laws that are three steps, seven steps back. And now don't, look, let's be open to the end, this is the same thing that was brought in when the diaspora vote was. Disabling the vote. We put in five, six consulates there, so people had to go in through the roofs and through the window to get their right to vote, and now they should go in what way? Three days earlier, bring them to the offices of the state administration to realize what they could have done on their own street. What bothers you so much that there's even a vote in front of the churches? If you have animosity to the church don't go, you go to the Office of State Administration but we don't mind entering the church leave to sign for a referendum and in front of the church. And we're proud to give up on that constitutional one, but not because of the number of signatures, but because of much more important reasons to be heard about later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101394	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101395	It is sad that you are not aware of how offensive you have now offended the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja. You have just now declared citizens of Slavonia and Baranja incompetent and declared that they are unable to use the Internet and that they do not know how to click on the mobile phone and via the application simple application to connect to the system of e-Citizens. You mentioned Đakovo and Đakovština, let's tell me in how many places around the city of Đakov were the signing gathering organised for any previous referendum in accordance with the law? Look at the tables, look at the lists, and you'll see it wasn't organized. It has not been reported, not in any of the lists submitted by the organisers of the referendum. If you know they were collecting signatures past what they wrote, then please report it because it's obvious the signatures were collecting the opposite of the law we swear. And what you've just said now is that respected citizens of Slavonia and Baranja won't be able to collect online signatures I think you've offended them very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101396	We've exhausted the replicas and answers to the replica of the opening exhibition. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the committee, want to make their views known? No, I don't. We're going into debate. I'm opening a debate. We're going after the representatives' clubs. It is up to the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101397	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Everything seems to me in these replicas that the government is still afraid of people on the road. He's afraid of people who might express dissatisfaction, gather around booths in the squares, in the streets. I'm not a believer, but I don't mind if people collect in front of a religious facility, I don't mind because I think they're as citizens as well as I am a citizen and as they should consider me a citizen. And I think this fear of citizens is something amazing. It is hypocritical when we refer to Finland, Sweden, Norway, Bavaria, whose economic model I disagree with immediately, but only in some things, not in standard. We're just taking what the authorities are doing right now. But let's just say we don't compare ourselves to them how these countries do railroads. But when it comes to the referendum, then we'll take the example of Switzerland that's been cutting grass for 200 years. And we've had five referendums, and now many politicians are going on the nerves of the referendum. And now we've just seen that yet some groups of authorities are in the way, they're in the way of groups that can quickly collect signatures and they're well organized. So what? Well, you get organized, too, so you collect signatures in the same way. Someone in front of the central committees of someone in front of the churches, everyone on their side. I think three important things that haven't been solved or which are a step back. The first thing is, for God's sake, why are we pulling 300, 400, 500 or 700 thousand citizens? After the signings are expensive, then we ask the Constitutional Court whether the issue is constitutional or constitutional, which is why it is not resolved in this way when the initiatives are launched then the Constitutional Court is given a question and it is said whether the issue is constitutional or constitutional, after the Constitutional Court says the constitutional court is beginning to collect signatures. And 500 thousand people don't pull their noses. It's basic, it can be solved without changing the Constitution. And why don't we do it, why is the Constitutional Court eventually? So that it could be manipulated, because as Judge Turudic said, the Constitutional Court is burdened with politics and he has influence in the Constitutional Court because politicians and elect judges of the Constitutional Court because he is elected here in the Assembly. And rarely will be political solutions when it comes to the referendum. So checking the constitutionality of the issue at the very beginning and I'm going to give it an amendment to this law. It's the second one to collect signatures. I would understand that the progress, that the government really wanted it, that the committee wanted it, that the government wanted it, rather I will say in that term, later I will say in this term of government, progress and that it wanted to democratisation, improve, facilitate citizens to come to the referendum that, with the gathering of public spaces, it has enabled the Internet and said here we will now have the practice to gather in public places, and even in state offices if it is convenient, let's take all three of the resolutions, and the Internet. But what he used to say before his colleagues in Slavonia, not only in Slavonia, you don't have signals in many places, people don't have Internet, people have the possibility, and even those who have access to the Internet don't have Internet. And another thing, why keep them from collecting signatures on Ban Jelačić Square in Flower Square on their street? This is what when the signatures for the elections are collected then you can, at that time and recommend the parties, put the ballots in your purse, go by the companies, by churches, religious objects can do anything, but now that it's about citizens being a correction of power, because the referendum is actually a correction when they announce political elites then enter the scene of citizens, and even in those societies where democracy is at a far higher level. I do not agree, of course, with my colleague, Pejo Grbino that we are exercising democracy as we do some of the countries in Europe that he mentioned, we are far from that democracy, and this is exactly what we are afraid of when people on the road is proof that democracy is far away, that we are far away in democracy. Of course, if it is possible, I hope it will allow for the collected signatures in public places, that then deadlines should be set, because the most controversial is that deadline for checking the signature, that it must be either 30 or 60 days, so it should also be prescribed. The introduction of the law says it is important for a referendum decision in a democratic society not to be explained or questioned, and it is questionable. Because as I said earlier, a referendum is a means to which citizens express their dissatisfaction. The referendum is a correction of the government, a referendum ultimately expressing the will of the citizens. And if a dozen times in the assessment of the situation emphasizes the importance of the referendum as a correction to the democratic behaviour of the legislative one, the executive authorities of the referendum poses major obstacles. The biggest obstacle is to just collect signatures, the major obstacle is to manipulate the question, which is now, imagine now that a sufficient number of signatures are being collected for a referendum on highways, the question is now said in advance, the question is counter-constitutional, the question is pure manipulation, the clean manipulation of the authorities is that it has not changed the way it should be asked so far and when the issue of the Constitutional Court is to be asked. Because if the Constitutional Court had asked questions about highways at the very beginning of the process then organisers would have changed the question and offered a new issue that would be a constitutional issue. And I don't think that the organizers of the highway referendum wanted to manipulate or manipulate the citizens, or that they wanted to plant the authorities. It's all clear to everyone. It's just not clear to the authorities what it's all about. So we swear on a referendum, swear on the right of citizens to decide, swear on democracy, and try to get the citizens to roll Sisif's stone on the hill, and when he rolls it, when he pushes it up the hill, we tell him now you've got a rock, but it's not a real rock, we'll give you another one. That's the question of the Constitutional Court. Now I'd like to say something about these verb structures that are repeated in law. Not just this law, otherwise in the law. I think it should, however, be said as a Parliament, that body above which only the people that the lecturer service should do their job. It says 10 times that the exercise of power, that power, is exercised. I guess there are other times when you're already kissing that word of power. It means the exercise of power. And it's far more mobile for a democratic ear but also for a democratic mind when it's said to be managed by the state. And that often you say the power is, we serve the people and this is where power is exercised everywhere. It is good to regulate certain things that have not been regulated so far, which is the way of financing, the way of observing, and these are the positive sides of this law. I hope there will be so much wisdom that you solve these most important issues, problems, to allow me to repeat the collection of signatures in public places, with the collection of public places, perhaps public offices. 'Cause please tell me, who's gonna dare go to the state office if he thinks he's gonna be sanctioned afterwards? What kind of civil servant dares to sign support for a referendum, something that's against the government? What the government thinks is against the government. For the power of anything that is not in her mind finds it against power. That's what every government does. But not just the government and the groups of people, and that's what you can see from these days when, for a second opinion, you have a huge attitude towards those who think differently. It means when the question is referred to the Constitutional Court, at the very beginning and the collection of signatures in public spaces, no matter where. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101398	Thank you, Your Honor. We have eight replicas. The first replica and respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101399	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Vukšić, I actually agree with most of what you said but it is amazing that the SDP is today trying to convince us here in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public that this is a relief of citizens' access to the referendum. So if there's anything we all agree on today, then it's certainly the fact that this is a disabling referendum. Then it is quite certain that this is about the ruling coalition trying to prevent citizens from using their constitutional right to referenda. And it's nothing else, everything else is a decoration in this law. The main purpose, the intensity of this law and that citizens must clearly hear is to make it impossible for citizens to express their will on certain issues, especially on those issues they are not satisfied with when it comes to the ruling coalition. So what are we talking about? We are talking about the fact that citizens want to correct what the ruling coalition has imposed as some solutions in life that simply do not correspond to most citizens and, of course, by disabling citizens in the referendum, they think they will continue to implement their policy. Of course, there are other instruments available to citizens, and these are elections, so they will certainly show their will in the elections. But let's not deny citizens the right to a referendum today. It's one of the fundamental constitutional rights. And by simply moving from the market, from the markets, to the places in front of the churches, etc., collecting signatures is simply disabling citizens. What to say about that citizen who has to make 50, 60 km, has to pay for a bus ticket or has to pay for fuel to come to some of the cities where there's a state administration office. In Dubrovnik County from Lastovo you have to go two days to get to Dubrovnik. Two days to travel by boat, ferry, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101400	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101401	Dear fellow Matušić, we agree, I said it was a step or two steps back, preventing citizens from collecting signatures in public places. It's exactly what citizens in rural areas won't be able to sign, it won't be able to collect signatures. All the time, it's been said that the practice has shown that they did not adhere to the law's signing. So what didn't the government react? How can the government not react if the law is broken? Because often the government violates the law itself. The second thing that I would believe is that I would like to make progress that the ruling coalition has proposed an opposition to change the Constitution only in one segment and that is to reduce the number of signatures, meaning not packages, all offering and HDZ offers packages and corn coalitions, let's cut the number of signatures to 200 thousand as proposed. 200 grand, and I think we'd all agree on that. At that time, HDSSB and HDZ could be both independent and all other parties told that you did not want to accept the referendum as a reduction in the number of signatures. This is how some packages are always pushed, so this is something else. So there was no desire to really allow citizens to be a correction of power. And another thing I didn't say which is often said that referendums are expensive. The most expensive is bad authority. Bad authority is far more expensive than the referendum so that they have 10 referendums a year. Democratic countries like Switzerland and some other countries, some democratic countries do not have referendums but have a different political practice and we cannot compare ourselves with them because we are not at this stage of democracy development, have a lot of referendums and they would thus fail because they spend a lot of money on the referendum. But no, they're making progress with the referendums.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101402	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101403	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. counterpart Vuksic, Mr. Grbin said that this model is largely based on the Slovenian model and the Slovenian Constitutional Court has ruled that the economic stability of Slovenia is more important than the national decision. So if this is the basis of the Slovenian model, then this is the same good will to prevent people from making decisions, to put people's will to a minimum. I will repeat something that is very important in this bill, which is that Article 3 of this proposal interferes with constitutional powers or in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and tries to impose legislation on such desired changes of the Constitution which have failed with the alleged guilt of the HDSSB. The real truth about these constitutional changes is that we supported a reduction in the number of signatures for the referendum, but we did not support the part where the amendments to the Constitution wanted to limit citizens to ask questions that, in our assessment, are not those issues that should be limited. All those other proposals for amending the Constitution have not been passed because of them known reasons, not because the HDSSB is not in favour of regulating this referendum issue. We advocate that citizens can easily collect signatures and what is most important, in order to prevent any political tension from being given authority to the Constitutional Court so that they can decide whether the issue is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and before the start of the collection of the referendum initiative or when a certain minimum number of signatures are collected to include the Constitutional Court without going to the end. Because he had the absurdity that 380,000 signatures were collected on one initiative, that the Constitutional Court said it needed 404,000, the Ministry of Administration 450,000, and according to election lists for the president of the Republic of Croatia, 3.8 million voters were registered, which is 10% 380 000. Then who's crazy about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101404	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101405	Yes, I agree, colleague Salapic with you. It is really sad when, before the elections themselves or in front of the referendum, we do not know how many voters we actually have, how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to plead, vote, give signatures, and it is really, it is not comical but tragic. You mentioned the Constitution and often mentioned the Constitution, amendments to the Constitution. I really think that the Kukuriku coalition really wanted to change the constitution then would sit down with all the parties in the Croatian Parliament and talk six months in a row, and with the biggest opposition HDZ party and if it wanted to compromise, there would be a compromise. But that was done, we know what Mr. Zoran Milanovic said, I don't care if he won't, there won't be any changes to the Constitution. He breaks all over his knee that way. So we gave, you-you will, if you won't-you won't, but we won't make any extra effort. It's a question of the statehood of a prime minister. As far as Slovenia itself is concerned, Slovenia should not be a role model to us. I know that in the 1970s, we said that sentence "so small so Slovene", that Slovenia was the first to go into unification with Yugoslavia to be a role model to Croatia, but all of this that has been happening lately in the matter of crime, I think there are far more democratic countries and more exemplary countries than Slovenia itself, which I am not going to interfere with in their internal affairs. But Croatia should, for its own sake, and not to compare with others, introduce the most democratic standards, which allows all citizens to join the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101406	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Drazenko Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101407	Thank you. Dear colleague, you pointed out in your speech that a deadline should be set for a signature check. I would just say that this system, as it is now proposed, is making it significantly easier because immediately after the deadline for the signing, at the same time, it will know exactly what the number of signatures collected, because the offices of the state administration will immediately enter the electronic database, and also the signatures of the days via the e-Citizen system will be automatically recorded. I would therefore say that this system, as proposed, will significantly facilitate and speed up the process of verifying the signatures collected. And looking at, in general, the fact that this system will be able to be signed, it personally seems to me from my position that it significantly facilitates the signing of signatures, and even for my parents, father and mother who are not informational written, but I will certainly help them if they are interested to assist and help them do it properly. I believe that today almost everyone in Croatia has someone who will be very happy to help him. My proposal will be certain to also educate people who want to be in the offices of the state administration or in some other way how to use these systems which should be upgrades. It seems to me, therefore, that this system facilitates the signing and facilitates that thinking and thinking, not that someone is taking you by the sleeve and is practically forcing you to sign a particular referendum initiative, but that you will be able to consider, with sufficient time, to study and decide whether you want to support a particular initiative or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101408	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101409	Dear counterpart Pandek, since the state firm can mention her here, there will be no advertising to that firm, it's about HEP, about paying the bills. You saw the commercials on HTV. Do you think the old gentleman who constantly complains about the young man staring at the screen and not having an account in the mailbox, that he's an imaginary character and that he's not in Croatia? That's Croatia for you. Old people don't even dare ask their grandchildren. You're going to your parents, I think it's an e-citizen and allowing you to sign it by making progress, but I'm against the possibility of ending the possibility of signing in public spaces. I'm against it. Okay, maybe we'll come in, in five years we'll say 70% of the people signed the Internet to someone, so remote, Internet, cell phone, any one on their computer, in any other way. So we'll say now we can abolish the public administration, we can lift the squares and streets because all the people are signing home in their houses. All grandchildren and sons help their parents who are not always on the Internet. But so long as it doesn't happen, so long as there's that uncle who yells doesn't have an account in the mailbox, what don't you read the book? This one says I read the book, my book is on screen. Well, there are people like that. That's Croatia for you. It is both Međimurje and Zagorje and Slavonia, these are rural parts, Zagora. What do you think everyone's on the Internet, everybody surfs there? Well, that's not true. I think at this point we would like to declare that Croatia is not a written country first, the second is not a written country, there is not so much Internet. He's got options. Second, the computer people don't have. They have nothing to buy from. If they don't have lunch in schools, they'll have lunch for the computer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101410	Croatia is written. How about citizens, I don't know. Croatia is written and it has no lack of will. And now the replica of the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101411	Thank you. Mr. Vuksic, you said one key sentence at the beginning of your presentation the authorities are afraid of the people. It's good that the government is afraid of the people. That fear is good, justifiable and beneficial. The government needs to be afraid of the people. But the question is, what does the government do now when it's afraid of the people? One solution would be to listen to what the people think and what the people do, to walk in the streets and hear. The second solution is to lock that people in the offices of the Office of State Administration where to knock, bow, say good day I have come to sign what is, of course, inconclusive. So we're normal? Who's gonna do it? You're saying if there are any violations, and there have been violations, we're all aware of these violations that have been collected in both churches and businesses and houses. And why are there criminal warrants? Why is there a police force? Why are there organs of repression? The issue of the basic referendum should be some sort of correction of power. The government in Croatia is against correction in principle. I've been in politics a long time. Not yet, I don't remember the example that the government has listened to something from the opposition that should also be a correction of power regardless of which side. The government is also afraid of correction by a referendum. Then what does the rule of law want? Make it easy or stop it? I think this is something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101412	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101413	Dear fellow Vuljanic, that the government is mainly, the authorities so far have been opposed to correcting themselves and it is this work that we are doing as an opposition in the Assembly that is actually a business of pushing that stone up the hilltop. So often when you get it after that, all you hear is a laugh, nothing else, or at that moment the government changes, and then those who were previously in power push that stone and so change from mandate to mandate. The government said you need to fear the people. The democratic government will not fear the people. The Democratic Authority is what you said. They'll listen to that people and they'll say if that's what the people want us to do. However, there are fences. Often the majority should not be right, because sometimes the majority of the referendum would reduce the rights of the minority, for example, so there should be safety-belts in the law and in the Constitution. So in laws to prevent the majority from exercising rights that the minority must exercise in democratic societies. So, the law must allow for the protection of those weakest minorities, it should be possible for the executive power to rule, so that someone does not think that the referendum abolishes taxes that are not even allowed today. So all instruments should have a referendum law and with the help of the Constitution. And I say, it would be a lot more honest if the government had proposed to change the constitution in one segment, which is to reduce the number of signatures to 200,000.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101414	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101415	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Vuksic, I would just like to say a few words about one part of your presentation that is related to the important issue of sending to the assessment of the constitutionality of the referendum issue. So in law, I remind the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of Article 95 clearly states who can and can do this, it must be 10% of the voters' signatures and then the Croatian Parliament can do so. However, I wanted to actually refer to another. I agree with the government's various types of conduct there are in this law to an exaggeration. So you should definitely lecture him. Even here in Article 50, the first time we've met this lately in laws is said to be thinking that people with disabilities are talking about people with physical defects. This should, therefore, be brought into line with, inter alia, the applicable terminology resulting from some other laws. The law also deals with such matters as in Article 46 when we talk about content. It is said that the ballots must be beautifully complex in the polling post and must be face down, which I don't think should be the content of this law, because only editing the polls, dialing, etc. There are other such articles, including other regulations. However, there is no interesting thing in this law that should contain, and this is the way of financing, sources of funding and promotion and referendum promotion, both for and against but also for financing in general. It is said only in one place that these funding provisions will be laid down by another law. Which one? Because this cannot be, for example, the Law on the financing of political parties. So this was supposed to solve this law that's ahead of us, the way of funding. Because now we see that some tails around some previous referendums and collecting signatures and funding are just being dragged in the form of indictments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101416	Thank you very much. Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101417	I think that with the number of signatures then the way the signatures are collected, it is in public places, the most important issue and the question of all issues of the constitutionality of the referendum issue that should be at the very beginning because they would first respect citizens' decisions. Because when citizens give signatures and 500 or more thousands of people to sign, and then the Constitutional Court says, but listen, you gave the signatures because you're being manipulated, it just means that they're being manipulated by a government that allows it to be manipulated because that's not supposed to be the issue at first. Secondly, I agree with you that there are a number of linguistic awkwardness. Not only this doing but there is, let's say this is probably someone else's writing about the pretty-steeled ballots with their face down, a little poeticly far-fetched but it's absolutely certain it shouldn't be in the law. But it should be, I agree fully with you, a way of financing the campaign for the referendum because we need to know who is behind it, it must be as transparent as should be the same campaign for political games or for the elections, regardless of which they are local to the president or parliamentary. And those who want to raise referendum questions must have a clean bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101418	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101419	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic noticed when you said you didn't mind if the signatures were collected in front of religious facilities. And I really don't think anyone well-intentioned should be disturbed, and especially those who swear to a democratic achievement in direct democracy or whatever it is. I always talk about rural areas, so I'll talk about it in this context. After all those abolishing all of us are left, thank God, our churches which are places and meetings other than participation in the Holy Mass, but also that community and before and after the Mass when our parishioners and inform themselves, are well informed of why they give signatures. They must be informed and then signed if they have that option. Well, you see, now you can't do that, there's an alternative, the Office of the State's Administration as it says. There's a unit of local self-government over 500 and these options 330. And how much? They work once a week. Well, please, do you know the possibility that he might be doing it once a week? It's all shortened, narrowed down, etc. So that's all that stuff. That's one moment. And then another possibility says it says Internet. Yeah, but the Internet also costs money. It is not on the water as we say it, and surely our poor and peasants and farmers certainly think about it. And it is certain that the availability of this direct democracy is in no way facilitated but in some ways discriminated against. And it's always that same thought in the villages we say don't just make it easy for us, just find us help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101420	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101421	Dear colleague Milinkovic, I don't mind collecting signatures in front of churches, I said neither before committees. But I would be much more pleased that citizens should neither be informed in committees nor in churches, that there is a public campaign, that there are those who are in favour and against, that the media publish... No, not so I don't say you did. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That the public media is publishing both for and against and that citizens are aware of what they have given or for what they should sign. So I don't mind even informing in churches. But it would be much better to do so in the prescribed places and that the media have a law of guidance to be followed. For what? Because all citizens need to be equally informed. Therefore, it is very important that what we just said is the way campaigns are financed, the way these campaigns are promoted, which should play a very large role, a significant role, public television Croatian television, which so far does not fulfil its function.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101422	Vesna Sabolic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101423	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleague Vuksic, you mainly answered my questions in the meantime that I wanted to ask you. I'll just take the opportunity to say that I don't like it when you say that the referendum is a correction of power. In fact, this is not good because the modern world has not yet invented a better way to establish democracy than a multiparty. Therefore, the correction of the government knows who is performing and who has the right to do so. In principle, I think that there is a need to fear the people's will, the expression of the people's wishes, but the manipulation of those stakeholders who will have both resources and all other opportunities to take advantage of the lack of information. And as far as I'm concerned, I'd just like to say about the debate on the technical illiteracy of Croatian citizens, I'd say, that finding doesn't stand. According to the latest HACOM report, 4.5 million Croatian citizens have mobile devices. Croatian citizens are technically, or technologically written, and I think we also need to accept this new model that is simply a matter of the moment of modern life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101424	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101425	Dear fellow Sabolic, right at the beginning of what you said lastly doesn't mean to know. The HACOM report said there were more mobile devices than the population in the Republic of Croatia. And that doesn't mean they all know how to handle what we've been saying today, that they're all as technologically as you said in writing. I know about myself, in my building people who've never been on the Internet, they've finished high school, they've finished colleges, they've never been on the Internet. They do not need to be underestimated, they simply do not want to join the Internet and should be allowed to be also equal citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You said nothing better was invented than parliamentary democracy, so they say. Parliamentary democracy is today a fig leaf for something called, which is the opposite of two words corporate democracy. But that would take us a long way to discuss it now. But do you really think that if it is the best, which I don't think it is, it's ideal that parliamentary democracy doesn't need to be corrected? I'll put it on, maybe you're right and correct, so the referendum is to declare citizens and these are citizens' initiatives, so no mistakes, correct the error of power, but citizens come to mind, come to a group of people who want to do something through the referendum. So that's what it is, but it can also be corrective when the government in something is wrong, insists as is a concession on highways, then citizens organize and say no. Don't you think it's a correction of the authority that you say is best, whether this Parliament is ideal, is not, far from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101426	Dinko Buric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101427	Thank you. Dear colleague Vuksic, we talked about a lot of things, here's the funding, but we didn't touch it, so when it comes to signing at the Office of State Administration, who's going to collect the signatures? Officials, subsistence officers at the Department of State Administration? So if it takes 30 days to collect signatures for a referendum will they stop with all their activities and 30 days will do nothing but collect only signatures or will they do so at work? And what about Saturdays, Sundays, does it really take 30 days to collect? What if it's a state holiday? Will they be further stimulated if they do their job and so on, what if, say, the referendum were at the time of the citizens' tax returns? What would be the advantage of collecting signatures for a referendum or collecting tax returns for citizens? This is all about making it impossible and making it difficult to maintain and collect enough signatures for a referendum, so disabling and making the referendum more difficult, and if it is so that officials and tenants will have to do so, then will it be just strengthening red tape because they will suffer jobs that they would normally have to do in their own time? And what if it cuts the referendum question with their attitude so it's done, so listen, I'm not going to collect signatures for it, I'm going to get sick. The appeal of conscience, so 15 of them in the Office of State Administration went 8 to sick leave, and none of the referendums nor the work. So it's not just funding, it's who's going to implement it, and it's not regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101428	Thank you. Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101429	Dear counterpart Buric, that this is a question just to make a small correction, 30 working days are said in the law, meaning 30 working days. I don't think it's Saturdays or Sundays or holidays, then. So you collect the signatures of 30 working days. But you asked well what if it happens at a time when tax returns are collected? Secondly, does this mean that the local and state administration will hire more clerks? How will it be organized? It seems to me that the cost of achieving this law is 4 million kuna, and it seems to me that 4 million kuna, is that enough? On the basis of which they have come to that conclusion, will the second reading provide us with these very questions, the answers to those questions that we have asked here? Look, it's gonna be hard coming to the state administration, in local self-government, writing 30 working days, and saying I'm going to sign a referendum on his job being lifted, or something that's against the government, or something that's against local self-government. People don't have as much regret as we do and as angry as we are with people, they don't trust institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101430	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101431	Dear Madam President, colleagues and colleagues, the Independent Representatives Club agrees that this is the first reading and I hope that the ears of those who will vote for this proposal will be opened through the opinions expressed in this assembly. In principle, we support referendum issues because it is a contribution to the democratisation of Croatian society and I am afraid that with the right democracy and I agree with certain predecessors it has not developed in us and then calling on some countries where the democratic system works I think completely in vain. I hope, therefore, that we will have enough hearing for the opinions of certain parliamentary representatives who have expressed a different opinion than Mr Grbin's proposed opinion. What I couldn't agree with is a place to collect signatures. This should be open to life and to citizens in a way that where citizens are the most present or the most common should not restrict those places to collect lists. We agree with that no matter what places it was. I think it should be agreed that the signature of 4 hundred or 450 signatories is 10% too many and that it should go to 5% which would be quite enough and the office would reduce the number of signatories. And there should be those who sign and take signatures on those lists and sign because I had an insight into the State Election Commission and some candidates and their signatures that in some places did not have their signatures at all and from those places they got a hundred signatures. They couldn't tell me because they had no control over who was signing and taking certain signatures. But I would also point out if, for example, for the President of the Republic, it was prescribed that there must be at least 10,000 signatures I don't know why they were allowed to take 350,000 signatures and provided you can only give the signature to one candidate. Then they could apologize to the citizens, we can't sign because we've already signed someone. It should also be arranged as well as some questions about the percentage, and I am certainly in favour of reducing the number of signatures. Those who make signatures and now the problem is mentioned if you would do it... The local self-government question is whether it will do so as a professional duty or will be particularly honored and should include this law as well as determine the maximum cost that could be done or approved for a referendum on the part of this House of Commons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr Cain will continue this discussion on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101432	Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. ... How? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] To some say that this law is anti-democratic or rather anti-referendum with only one goal to prevent any future referendum and others say as we have had the chance to hear that this is the best referendum law in the world. Now how many of us have had this referendum in the Republic of Croatia so far. We've had 10 attempts, so HSP and defense associations, a suspension of co-operation with The Hague court has collected 296 thousand signatures. The referendum committee, joining NATO 124,000 signatures. The initiative "The Sea is the mainland", means the arbitration of Croatia-Slovenian and carries 200 thousand lists. Then five union centers gathered 717 thousand lists to amend the Labour Act. "On behalf of the family" constitutional definition of marriage 749 thousand signatures. Well, there's a referendum from the Staff in Vukovar for Cyrillic 632, 2,000 signatures. So the referendum uprising of four questions, that was, what, 116 or 124 thousand signatures. On behalf of the family, 380 thousand votes "Let's choose representatives by name and last name", etc., outsourcing 608,000 and "We don't give our highway" 530 thousand. Yeah, someone said that the existing referendum law is bad but that this one in front of us is even worse. Someone said that this law is both dangerous and totalitarian, non-democratic, anti-civilization. Maybe we shouldn't use those terms, but it's a fact and I agree. How many offices are there in the Republic of Croatia? We heard 330. In one Buzet, Pazin, I don't know, Pula, Rovinj, Labin, Bujama, Poreč you have but in one Lannister, Oprlje, Grožnjan, etc., clearly, Gračis has no. Someone mentioned that at a certain point, officials in those state offices would be appointed if someone requested that the state administration be reduced. Whether you can come over at the time of the marenda there, round it or not, we can actually talk about it. But let's be serious, at this point we don't even know what 10% of you are looking out for in the Republic of Croatia, but in local referendums you have another anomaly. You need to collect 20% here under this law. I'm really asking myself what it is now, so let's not suspend democracy at that local level. Someone mentioned that the prime minister signed referendum initiatives, that it was only 5% in the meantime, not 10%, and now we see that local elections need to raise 20%. That's not how it works. And then we have these local referendums, as in the case of Split Mr. Mayor, Mr. Baldasar determines that the signatures will be collected in only four places and then the man asks himself whether it's legitimate. And I was against that referendum on marriage or Cyrillic, clearly that I didn't sign it, clearly that I voted against it, but I would never defend to people what was fundamentally theirs, that even through such a form they would decide, especially not at the referendum. And the question of whether it can enter the procedure must be decided by the Constitutional Court. Now that's 10%. The Constitutional Court has determined that 10% of 404 are 252 voters. Minister Bauk or the Ministry of Administration said 10% of the 452,000 signatures were signed, with 3.8 million voters registered in the presidential elections. And what it is now, 404 252 as the Constitutional Court says, 452 000 which Mr. Bauk says or 380 000 as many as we were registered in the presidential election. I guess it would make sense to be that $380,000. Interestingly, in one Italy, a country that has 55 or 60 million people is enough for a referendum of 500 000 signatures, in one Swiss country 10 million inhabitants is enough 100 000 signatures, and there are signatures collected for as many as 18 months. That's why I don't know which times I don't know what can create this online registration for us, I suggest a referendum day. So once a year, for example. in the 11th or 5th month, 12th or that the referendum coincides with some local, parliamentary, presidential elections, so that people can simply declare on that day a possible 5, 6, 10 and 15 referendum. Personally, to preserve the tradition of the referendum, to preserve this "referendum folklore", it doesn't matter if someone signs it in front of the church, whether someone signs it in front of the community. Clearly, we avoid kindergartens, avoid schools, etc., etc. Article 9 of this Law speaks of referendums or local referendums, which are said in the local, regional (regional) government unit where up to 10,000 voters are registered in the polling register of the unit, 20% of voters are required. In which more than 10,000 to 30,000 live, 2,000 voters and 16.7% of the number of voters exceeding 10,000. In the unit of local self-government where 30 000 to 100,000 voters live, the sum of 5340 voters and 13.3% of the number exceeding 30,000 voters, etc. It's actually hard to calculate, and let alone at this point know how these local referendums could be conducted at all. Let's say this law couldn't be held under the quotes this advisory referendum for Plomin because the initiative is against the law even though I think the thermopower plant is against the Istrians or the Liburns, however, the Labinians, but the basis of this law could hold a referendum on the unfortunate Compostane, but I don't know if we're going to experience it. Article 18 speaks here, mentions the Constitutional Court. I think we should set a deadline for the Constitutional Court to determine to him what period he must say that some initiative is constitutional or not constitutional. It is clearly important to establish that referendum initiative. Someone here asked article 13 and asked why it should be signed, for example. not only would they collect under quotes, I'm joking, in the offices of the state administration, but also in police stations, DORH buildings, etc., etc. Someone asked themselves why they wouldn't be collecting signatures for the president of the state, for the Parliament, etc. I repeat again, let's not give up that referendum "tradition" so let someone call it folklore. He must simply gather at the stand, so he shouldn't if it's just after Bandic for these stands to haunt, etc., but let's let it go now. The problem of a local referendum in my court is here to be apostrophe. I said in the state referendum 10% varies between those 380 and 404%, and in the local referendum we have 20% plus I don't know how much. 20 percent is a minimum, so Professor Podolnjak, for example, for the city of Zagreb, calculated that the 20% should be around 230 thousand votes for the city of Zagreb, and for the country that counts five times more inhabitants than the city of Zagreb 400 and so many thousands of votes. Gentlemen, I'd like to say that's not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101433	Thank you very much. Dragutin Lesar, a replica to the exhibition of Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101434	Dear counterpart Grubisic, you have rightly said that signing places are a very important thing in this law. I agree with you and warn of the absurdity of this bill. That might happen if, by any chance, the citizens of Split would like to replace the mayor with a referendum, he will determine that the places for the signing of the referendum are in his office. And then the citizens of Split would have to go to his office to sign a referendum on his shift. I want to believe it, it's okay. I want to believe you understand me, the absurdity of this bill. Second, the collection of signatures in the Offices of the State Administration interprets the control of the signatures, we will immediately get the control of the signatures. Now look at all the two-faced and hypocrisy of the author of this proposal. For election signatures from the head of the municipality, mayor, mayor, President of the Republic, and I remind you that last week, the law introduced and the collection of 1500 signatures for each list of parliamentary deputies. According to the number of lists that went to the 2011 elections, what did you vote for? The State Election Commission will have 48 hours to check 450 thousand signatures. So if the same number of lists goes to parliamentary elections as in 2011 it will be 450 thousand signatures that can be collected at fairs, cafes, churches, pubs, restaurants, kindergartens, schools, anywhere. There's no limit. But here we're introducing a restriction where and it's very important to control the signature. When political elites need signatures, nothing matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101435	Ivan Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101436	I thank you for the supplement, and I agree with Agent Lesar's remarks that this could be about controlling the signatures I don't really believe in, but it's possible that it can happen. And that's why I'm here to collect signatures where it suits citizens, not to set up places where the signatures will be collected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101437	Jadranka Kosor, replica to the presentation of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101438	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Cain, first of all, here is your observation that the law should determine the time at which the Constitutional Court has to show itself about the request of the Assembly whether the referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution or not. I'm very surprised, because you don't know it exists, that it's regulated. You're really here if I were in a jargon like that, if you'd joke almost from the seventh century. This is regulated in the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and clearly there says that the Constitutional Court has a 30-day period, so in which it must be manifested. Like your question and your doubt about what's 10% now. The Constitutional Court said it, and that's the 10%, so that's 404,000. When the Constitutional Court says that's the case, then I think there really shouldn't be any more questions. And as far as your proposal is concerned, once a year, to determine the day in which all the referendums will then be held, I don't think that would be good because it would then lose the meaning of the referendum initiative. Because citizens encourage and citizens begin to sign such initiatives, when they really feel or that a question is particularly important, or feel some kind of injustice, or feel that something needs to be corrected, and set them up for that one day. And imagine, after that one day that I don't know how to be in July, something extremely important happens in September, which is why citizens want to launch a referendum initiative, but I can't do that. So this proposal would actually limit the initiative to call a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101439	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101440	Well, I think it would be extremely good to determine one day if there was a referendum in the Republic of Croatia. You know very well as the former prime minister, that a referendum costs taxpayers about 50 million kuna. Which will bring us these online referendums we'll see. But as we set off, we must hold at least two referendums soon. So that's this outsourcing in the public sector 608,000 503 collected signatures. And the 530,000 signatures have been submitted to the "We Don't Give Our Highways" initiative, and 488 thousand are valid. So we have two referendums. So why don't we put them together? If we're going to have two or three more, and it's easy to do before this initiative is sent to the Constitutional Court and they decide that it could cost taxpayers 200, 300 and more million kuna. I think we have to be rational here at least. When we talk about the number of signatures, now we have a decision of the Constitutional Court. I absolutely respect her. 404 thousand 252 that's 10% by them. But give me Mrs. Kosor to explain to me how it is possible that in the presidential elections 3,8 million voters were registered. So why don't the Constitutional Court change that decision. Or the Constitutional Court, by making this decision on 404 thousand signatures, actually went against the quotes of the "Markic's Initiative" we choose under quotes, even though it is a clear deception, "a representative by name and last name" because they did not propose that MPs be directly elected in their election unit. I call once again and the Constitutional Court correct that decision. 380 thousand is one number, so many have been registered for the presidential election, and 404,000 is your decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101441	Thank you very much. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101442	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, you asked what it is when different data is given, I'm going to simplify it a little bit, about the number of voters. The answer is very simple, it is organized manipulation and insult of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Because when it happens that 384 thousand people of the Republic of Croatia sign that they want to hear the opinion of all the voters of the Republic of Croatia on whether or not a preferential vote should be put in place or not, then of course there is manipulation, it goes in a different direction even further to scare those who make such a referendum impossible. And then they propose a law that is somewhere very close to that and still very far away and then avoid a referendum, a preferential vote is voted, and we don't even know if the citizens of the Republic of Croatia really want a preferential vote because we didn't allow them to decide at the referendum. You spoke well of this information by local self-government, and here it was said that you were governed by local self-government that they were the right places and that it would be very accessible. Here's to me in the town of Križevci, there's about four municipalities, there's only one state office, there's one outpost actually. Whether it's tomorrow or not, I have no idea because every day something gets lifted. By the time I get to Zagreb at half past nine in the morning, and by the time I get back to three, something's been lifted. Most of the time, that's how it happens. And in the entire Koprivnica and Križevci County there are only three state administration offices, so it's a very high availability, definitely. And there are hundreds of settlements and miles away. It is in many parts of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101443	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101444	Yes, there is nothing different in the County of Istria and Primorje-Gorski, Dalmatia or I don't know which other. We have 42 units of local administrations and self-government in Istria, and if I'm not mistaken, let's call them state offices. Yes, when we talk about this conscious manipulation of numbers under "the voters" again I say the Constitutional Court has set a number of 404 thousand 252 voters, and in the presidential elections 3,8 million voters were registered. It's impossible they didn't know that. I would even dare say that sometimes, well, when we talk about the Constitutional Court it is not a classical court but it is also politically under quotes "body" but knowingly not in one case and alone in one way or another they can politicise and so on and concrete about this referendum "In the name of the family" where 380 thousand 649 signatures were collected. I don't think it's good, especially when it comes to the judiciary, to the judiciary and whatever it is, and the Constitutional Court is not a classical court, to behave like the wind is blowing. Because it is largely simply questioning the credibility of institutions and states as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101445	On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101446	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking on behalf of the SDP club, I will point out immediately that the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. There is no doubt that the referendum as a direct form of democracy, we have heard this several times already, correcting and supplementing representative institutions. But institutions of direct democracy such as the referendum should not be unconditionally glorified as the only real true democracy or eventually rejected as a distraction and a threat to representative democracy. And we think, at the SDP club, there may be some improvement, I can say right now that here's the SDP club suggesting that the deadlines for signing be extended. So, in this way, until the second reading, by listening to all quality proposals, we will get exactly one bill that will allow the referendum to be an upgrade and control of the existing representative democracy, but also to make it impossible for different interests, particularly financial interests, of different interest groups that, under this Egypt, would essentially want to use people for their own interests. It is our duty to recognize it and then respond in such an adequate way. I don't think that's even controversial. In addition, the citizens' initiative installed this very coalition power and coalition power from 2000 when it installed a new item 3 in that article, which prescribed that all issues in which the Croatian Parliament or the President of the Republic could be called a referendum in accordance with the law, if required by 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic. Many at the time, not my colleagues but the experts of constitutional law, at the time, wrote literally, "that then the government had put a knife under its own throat because a referendum could be called whenever it came to anyone's mind." That's what they wrote in 2000. Now, please, who's afraid of the people? His court needs to be afraid and careful. However, such an institute must not be allowed to be misused because it loses its fundamental role and mission. There is no doubt, therefore, that the spirit of direct democracy has come out of the bottle, that it should not be brought back, about us, so on a good proposal, especially the final proposal depends on whether this spirit will be the good spirit of democracy or the evil spirit of tyranny of the majority over the minority. I believe that this very bill of law makes it possible first, to be a good spirit, a good spirit of democracy. It is a unanimous assessment that we need quality regulation of this issue, and therefore we are not the Constitutional Court's decision, but it is in some way a unanimous assessment and constitutional experts but also all political parties no matter what they say here and how they speak here. I'm sorry, Madam President. I'm going to quote you in an informal conversation. I think it's worth it if our public knows, "So today was a debate about whether someone offended someone, whether they said that some part of the population in our beautiful Croatia knows how to use the Internet or not." It's not an insult, it's someone's right, and they don't know what to do, and it might not be less smart and less valuable. But the debate about how we are discussing this must be affecting citizens' attitudes, and citizens are more sensitive than we think. A long time ago sociologist Jacques Maritain wrote about this problem in keeping the work of Man and State. He feels that when speaking about this subject, should we ask the key question whether the people should wake up or serve them? And there's been a lot of such attempts. Unfortunately, the history of the last century has been abounding with a large number of examples in which there has been no difference between real democracy and infatuation. That's what we do at the SDP club because we don't have any fear of citizens freely pleading, not withdrawing, forcing them. Therefore, a good legislative framework should be created. The referendum and the citizens' initiative are designed to really be as Americans say... so one control and balance that is essential to the constitutional restriction of government and already some believe that this is essentially the fourth part of the division of power. And what is important to say is that this is often neglected in these discussions, and therefore I want to draw particular attention to it, so whoever wants to control another must be at the same time subject to the same concept that their use is also subject to restrictions written by Professor Podolnjak and almost the same by other constitutional experts. So let's not invest in people in the wrong way here. People used to evaluate well when it seemed to threaten boom with these initiatives, but why not, but many people recognized what was behind a particular initiative. Great initiative is chosen by citizens by name and last name, but when the media in particular started to talk about that initiative, that something else was not so attractive in that package that it appeared that some bait for this initiative was not highlighted, and this included the proposal to enter the Croatian Parliament with 2%. It was hidden and the citizens recognized it, but then those who say and condemn citizens are lazy, they haven't responded, they don't care about democracy, and did they try to explain to people what it was about or because people read about it? So we see here, and we find this one balance just to show the true will of the citizens. So not only does it matter in democracy how we commit ourselves, it's certainly a question of this referendum, but also why we opt for something, which is why we vote for someone, why we vote for a particular initiative? And this can be achieved only if the referendum precedes a pluralist debate on the referendum issue itself. And that's one big value here, no one's talking about it. So, to see what this is about, ultimately, the initiators themselves will be obliged to explain, give an explanation and the consequences. On the other hand, there are those who feel that the procedure for the referendum initiatives needs to be simplified as much as possible, but the referendum is not democratic if the procedure is not democratic. So, the answer that I would have just said and found it is this bill that under the cover of direct democracy is not implemented by the majority, but also by some constitutional provisions, and then it is about which articles, which are discussed by our Article 3rd Constitutional and legal constraints on referendum issues. The referendum cannot take decisions that would jeopardise the values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and others that would be contrary to the principle of competence of EU legal acts. It's this sylogism that I mentioned earlier that caused a mockery in HDZ, so when we don't know something, then we laugh at it. So, just when these values are neglected, through history there were, I'm not saying that we had them, we just want to stop them, it's right in political theory, it's just constitutional law theory that has been crystallized. And that's what I don't think it should be, it shouldn't be controversial. So, what is important is to ensure that the institutions of state and law are respected. We see here that we have a big problem with state institutions. Whose institutions are these? We defend institutions, whose institutions are these? These are Croatian institutions. So what fear of entering the state administration? From what? After all, please, when someone, when we imagine that you're some kind of initiative promoter, you have to provide the means, too, it's exhausting to sit outside. I know the people of the union and the women who sat there and stood by, in the storm, in the rain and in the weather. Maybe some other initiatives were done by some paid, we don't know organizations, so they didn't get so worked up. Which one of the prominent journalists wrote about when she didn't want to sign her insults, I'd rather not tell you. You can read that in the New List a few days ago. So the number of referendum initiatives in the world has increased since the 1960s even sixfold. However, what is particularly interesting is that the costs for the campaign of these initiatives have increased by 750%. Do you have any idea how many initiatives they've spent on money? Do we know who's funding them? We don't know. There was just a question here whether it could be in front of the church or not. And why don't I beg you in front of the church? The question of law may be which questions are allowed here or which one thinks may be asked and which one does not, which offends essentially the church and all the believers. But it's also considered desirable to speak here, underestimating citizens. Thus, the collection of a large number of lists is difficult for citizens themselves if they are not well organised through different associations or stakeholders. Therefore, the job of collecting signatures has become, as Americans say, a very well-paid job that they do, I quote: "specialised companies for those political, social or entrepreneurial interests that can pay for it". One critic of such reproduction, so it is nothing more than the delivery of a direct democracy called an industrial initiative. So right now he wants to get rid of it. They also want to eliminate such costs, i.e. the non-transparentity of such behaviour. So what's the problem? So let's not kid ourselves, that's something my colleague Grbin was talking about that he had been paying attention to a few years ago and our esteemed representative, Mlakar, so it's obvious with his naked eye that they're the same manuscripts, the same pen and so on. And now, of course, that control as it goes, it can't be adequate control, nor is it expected of state bodies, nor does anyone have such a system to control it in that way. So please, in a court case, just one signature on some document that someone suspects is a party that has been falsified for years, one only. Therefore, this is indeed an improvement and there is no need to be afraid of it. If people are interested, they'll go to the state office but if they're not very interested, if they don't care, if they're looking for someone to sign, so he got there and he signed it, that's another thing. And it really makes it difficult for some, but to whom, I think we all know the answer to that question. The prominent European one weekly is also about this problem because this is general, this is not just some of our problems and some of the problems that we are going to face, that we have met or that we are now meeting, but is just saying that this fourth branch of government... Specialised companies are interested in lobbying and financial centres are able to play a role that was originally intended for citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what Professor Podolnjak wrote about and almost the same way. In fact, it's not hard for people to try to cheat in some way. I mentioned this initiative that had a great title: "Let's choose representatives by name and last name" but it silenced this second part that didn't like it very much. So experts always point out that they should be suspicious of the motives of the proposings as they should be suspicious of each government and then also of those who in some way present themselves as such original authority and who control representative authority and who need to find a good balance for this. That's why I think there's a big newspaper in this law except I'm already some provisions, and I think they're very important notes, financing. Therefore, Article 31, which states that the financing of referendum activities and referendum promotions is governed by a special law. Maybe it hurts a lot of people who are against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101447	Thank you. Nikola Vuljanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101448	Comrade Antičević, you said at the outset that it is not necessary to glorify these systems directly, democracy, I agree, it is not necessary to glorify them, nor should most of them always be right, nor should it be allowed to harass most of them to abuse, take away minority rights. But that's why there are mechanisms in both the law and the Constitution that need to make it impossible. On the other hand, isn't it a little strange that these referendum initiatives have grown so rapidly that they've blossomed, it's not just a West-based disease. The referendum should be an expression of the people, the will of the people to in some way change what the government is doing, so it should be a correction of power. The government's correction in a representative democracy that works well is carried out through the opposition. The government listens to the opposition, at the very least listens to it. However, in these communications between the authorities and the opposition, we often use the term consensus that is terrible, which is left over from some time when the consensus meant that we all have to agree with what the Central Committee thinks. There's too little compromise in politics. If there was no shooting from the hill, from one hill to the other today in Croatian politics, of course there would be no need for such referendums. But when power and opposition are placed in their trenches and heavy weapons, they shoot on the other side, seeking consensus. To listen to what I say...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101449	Thank you. Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101450	I believe that a referendum should be a logical solution when it is an expression of the needs and desires of people to change something, to supplement something, not to participate in battles between power and opposition. We are here now in the valley or in the square, we are not on any heights, and I would like us to concentrate on this proposal, and that is how we get a referendum law that will affirm people's will, and to disable those who want to just play with people, and that was also good, especially if these are present today not against but protectively. We protect the family, we're not against anyone, no, we just want to protect the family. From whom do you protect your family? Well, then when we changed the law, then they rose again, that's not what we thought. So that's what I'm talking about, and I think that first piece of your replica is on to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101451	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101452	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Anticevic, it's very good that you initially said that the SDP club is for that, namely after that you made one whole series of really opposite claims. For example, you said who was afraid of the people, of course, but after that you also said that different stakeholders could use a referendum to achieve their goals, so we cannot allow it. We politicians, Parliamentarians, we will ban the people from making statements. Such mistrust, in fact, towards the maturity of voters is certainly not good because it is a narrowing of democratic rights, and in fact the referendum as a direct and most common form of democratic decision is one very valuable tool for the protection and democracy of human rights, and these two values in the conscience of responsible voters are certainly not opposed and I do not believe that the voter in the referendum would ever choose something that opposes the will of the majority, and in the end we are here thanks to the will of the majority. So by what right then we can and may limit that right, the democratic rights of the voters by claiming that we know something better than they do. It seems to me that democracy is something best kept by democracy itself, and that is why the best part, at least so far, is the best part of the form of government found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101453	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101454	I've already told you this in some way, I don't know why you're just saying something that you wanted to adjust your replica to something I didn't say. You've been doing it for a long time, you're an academic, I really appreciate you, don't do it. ... Don't do that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You quote from one and then no point, no score and all. ... /The noise in the hall./... I'll tell you what about it, you're very happy here, so listen to what Professor Podolnjak says about it. The referendum and the people's initiative should be so designed to be part of the concept... that they are an important link in the constitutional concept of government restrictions, but that they themselves are subject to the same concept. Democracy is nothing but responsibility but there are people who want to abuse it, and we have seen it through existing initiatives. So later their third failed, they were read by the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101455	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101456	Comrade Ingrid, you said the referendum should not be glorified. For 25 years, we had a three-state referendum of which only one national and 10 locals were successful because of that prohibiting clause. Who glorifies the referendums? Well, we haven't had a referendum in this country every month. Secondly, there is the possibility of abuse of stakeholders. True, however, some believe that the political interest group in this House in 2010 has used its power by changing the Constitution and abolishing the rule of law of the referendum for Croatia's entry into the European Union has favoured itself, not all citizens or most citizens of this country. And thirdly, this law carries within it the possibility of abuse of power to the harm of the people. In the case of monetization and referendum, I will tell you: there is no obstacle to a representative body or executive authority making the opposite decision of the proposed referendum issue, not even when it is already in parliamentary procedure, nor when it is... in the Constitutional Court, which specifically means that the Government can sign a monetary agreement within a month, then a referendum is held against the will of the citizens, so the citizens decide otherwise, but since that law does not have a reaction within itself of a contract which the executive authority would have concluded remains in force. This greatest lack of system to block a different decision from the moment x for which we agree with it carries the risk of abuse of power in such a way that in the municipality, the city and the county only one man, the mayor or mayor, and in the country 20 people decide the opposite of the will of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101457	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101458	So I want to tell you that you here are obliged as a parliamentary representative to do everything possible to raise the reputation of state institutions, not to humiliate them. The truth is, and I said there was no need to glorify the referendum, but I also said that because it was not the end of the sentence or to reject it as a distraction and a threat to representative democracy because the referendum was not. Have you thought about when a colleague about how the organizers have declared themselves to be so far we have seen it and during the last term of office the owners of these signatures. So they picked up the signatures, they collected the signatures, there was no doubt at that time, and then they were called by the authorities to eventually and they were like negotiators, at least one part. Fortunately, the Constitutional Court, however, decided by the Constitutional Court, but unfortunately, he decided that the referendum was groundless. You know what I'm talking about. And the newest thing about this bill is that nobody owns it. You can be an organizer, you're obliged to give financial reports, but you're not the owner of that. Until today, it wasn't thought so, but I... Those are my signatures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So where's that? And who's against it? Well, he does, he does.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101459	Branko Hrg, replica. Don't throw it out of the bench. They don't hear anyone interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101460	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleagues, I don't agree with you very much what you've been saying. You said this bill was a good spirit of democracy. I'll say the other way around. This bill of law is an evil spirit of democracy. You were talking about the tyranny of the majority, and I'm going to say that you're spending tyranny as a minority over most. You were talking about an initiative to collect signatures for a preferential vote. You weren't exactly here to make sense of what you were talking about. You manipulated 380 and some thousands of citizens. Now you're saying that some of them must have been paid for it. So I'll tell you. The HSS has participated with its infrastructure as a political party, because we advocate a preferential vote. None of us got any kunas or anything else, nor should we have paid anyone. And don't say that. Don't make those volunteers who were at the booths to stand up to the nonsense that the government is doing in your group, to show the will of the citizens now to call these people even mercenaries, I don't know what not. If you've already manipulated citizens by not allowing a referendum, then don't say it here right now. You say the referendum is not the only instrument of democracy, but in Croatia the only instrument of opposition to the self-will of the incompetent government and its bad moves. That's why it's so much initiative in this three-year term, because citizens have no other way. And it's good that they collect signatures so they don't go to the streets. Because the other one is that, that would be devastating, and you're making it impossible for them. You're not afraid of democracy. So if you weren't afraid of democracy, if you weren't afraid of a referendum, then you'd allow it. You want to get people into the offices and put them under the lamp.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101461	Thank you. Thank you very much. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101462	You fellows didn't understand what I was saying. That's one thing. It's one thing, and the other thing you're saying, don't say it, so more than once you've memorized something like this, so you've shaped it yourself. Don't say that, don't say that. Well, I'm not talking because you're letting me. I know if you'd decide that I couldn't possibly speak, and your only skill is to watch where you're going to the coalition and how you're going through your history.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101463	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101464	It's not easy to replicate my colleague Anticevic. Yeah, but I'd like to look back on a few thesis. A colleague under the cover of the referendum initiative is hiding the tyranny of the majority. What does that mean? Does this mean that you admit that most in Croatia do not actually accept what the government is doing? And that's certainly true. That's true, I just don't know if you're aware that you said it. And secondly, the majority have no intention of tyranny but simply intends to correct what the government has done wrong. I also agree with my colleague that this cannot be declared a good spirit of democracy by this law. It can only be an evil, unclean spirit or worse a vampire from a recent past. And as for the argument that you don't accept, which we've been telling you all day, which is that it's simply a matter of disabling a referendum statement. That's this proposal. I will now read to you today a statement by the Union of Civil Service Officers, which makes it clear to you that they must not and do not wish to participate in the government's asphyxiation of the referendum statement. I think this statement makes it more than clear what the civil servants' attitude is. And officials must not be execuators of the government's policy of suffocating a referendum statement. So, if you don't want to hear the argument that we as opposition MPs are saying is that it's about disabling a referendum statement, listen at least here's the one directly concerned, which you want in a negative way, and actually create an even worse picture of civil servants, that some of the government's execuators or overseers are governmental. Here I am asking you to at least listen to their argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101465	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101466	What I am telling you is a colleague in theory called the tyranny of the majority and the protection from it is contained in our Article 3 of the Constitution. It discusses constitutional and legal restrictions on referendum issues. I'll read it to you. So, "The referendum cannot make decisions that would jeopardise the values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and decisions that would be contrary to the principle of competence of EU legal acts." That's it. Now that's called the tyranny theory of the majority, and it has to be contained, that's what all the constitutions have, and we've copied it in this law. Now, as far as I'm concerned, I can agree on almost anything, I don't have to limit it, but I don't think that this proposal, we may find ourselves there, you think it's still necessary for the booths to collect, I don't know why you're so persistently defending it because this is much cheaper for the initiator and those who want such an initiative. Both immediately and initially there and it is clear with whether or not the question is right, whether a sufficient number of signatures have been collected and which are valid which are not valid. And just remember what it was when you collected enough signatures to protect the Labour Act when you were in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101467	Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101468	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representatives Antičević-Marinović, I appreciate your legal experience and the way in which you discuss, interestingly and vigorously defend the legal proposals coming from your party. But here I have a little dyspression. You mentioned constitutional-legal experts, that we disagree in the House of the Lefts, the Rights, the Centre is quite normal and understandable, but since you mentioned the Professor. The undergraduate from the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, so I will quote what he said a few days ago on a round table where a very impressive group of experts gathered. He said the bill aims to limit as many future referendums as possible. Those are his words. Secondly, he told the organisers of that round table if this law on your part, your majority, in the Assembly, did not withdraw to propose to start an initiative by collecting signatures with a question, would you say that the signatures for a referendum are collected in places where public gathering is allowed? Those are his words. Second, professor of constitutional law at the Faculty of Law in Osijek, Dr. Mato Palic says the constitutional law on the Constitutional Court should not be intervened and prescribed from the Constitution of the Constitution, which contains the Constitution, in Article 3 of this Law, and also suggests that the constitutional law on the Constitutional Court should be corrected in a way that allows for the possibility of asking constitutional judges to be shown about the constitutionality of the referendum issue before the signing is collected. It shall also object to Article 14, Article 22, Article 13, Article 21. etc., etc. I think if we're really going to respect the will of the profession then we don't need to partially cut what's appropriate to someone when it represents the position of a law that obviously has a single good flaw, which is that this is the first reading and that you still have to pull it back or intervene in a way that we really respect other than politics and the profession that has conflicting opinions about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101469	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101470	I agree with you that you really need to respect your profession. Well, the waist should, I think you'll all agree, be consistent with something and then talk, write one thing and say one place else, it's with our intellectuals and our top-notch that happens a lot. But what you're saying, the professor may not like some particular provision, but I'm going to quote to you again what he's saying, which is important in this matter, so the referendum uses exactly and controls the representative authority so that the referendum itself, so those who want to control, must be controlled. These are the words of Professor Dolnjak, who wrote in his writings, I would say to you the already famous work of the Constitution and Responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101471	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101472	Thank you very much. My colleague Antičević-Marinović, you said, there is a lot of talk, of course, about collecting signatures in the offices of the state administration, so you said that who is afraid to enter and why the state administration, or the Office of State Administration? There is, of course, fear of free choice, fear of many people who express it here today, because when in some limited space it must come to sign for or against something, then of course it is no longer a matter of free choice. And here I would also quote a part of the letter that is written here from the Trade Unions of State and Local Servants and corporals where they speak of their freedom of decision and say, "The question arises as to the plea of civil servants and substitutes about the need to call a referendum against a particular government policy in front of the eyes of their own employer. And in an indirect way, the possibility of free consumption of civil rights is threatened." So that's the problem here for that group of people whose state is an employer. And finally, you mentioned a provision in the law, in just one article, that the way of funding, which is one of the neuro-algic places, would be regulated by a special law. And you said it obviously hurt some. I don't care that it's not regulated and that it won't be regulated in this law either. When's it gonna be? You don't know. And that's one of those questions that we could regulate by this law because it doesn't require any change to the Constitution or constitutional law on the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101473	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101474	All political parties have been forced to publish, especially recently, and we have passed a whole series of laws and amendments to the law in order to make the financing of political parties and political campaigns as transparent as possible. It's not a problem with us at all. So, what's the problem then that they have to do with the referendum initiatives? ... Yeah, but that's not possible to do with this law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This law is a blank norm that just points out that once the law is passed, such a law on the financing of such initiatives will be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101475	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101476	Thank you very much. My esteemed colleague Ingrid, I almost gave up on the replica about how you started answering in the first, but now I'm getting a little bit of courage when you eased the answers to the replica, so I'm going to take a chance. You said it was important to show the citizens' will and not understand the fear of collecting signatures in the Offices of State Administration. There's no fear of it, and it's not a question of why there, but why only there, why only there are signatures being collected. You say you take care of people so they don't collect signatures and take care of them. And how come he doesn't take care of the Croats in BIH who wait in the rain and storm for eight hours to vote? They don't mind the rain and the storm. This solution is closer to me by solving the disabled. Because if you allow the collection of signatures only in the Offices of State Administration, then most people who work need an annual vacation to go out and sign or invent a sick leave to sign or request an unpaid leave. Because at the time of work, I can't leave. And secondly, isn't it uncomfortable to enter the state administration and be legitimate twice, for the first time in the entrance where a guard, a porter, a security officer, and the second time when he has to sign? It seems to me that this bill is an example of intellectual effort to create a legal framework to make the voice of the people as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101477	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101478	I'm sorry my colleague that you almost gave up on your replica of some desert fear, you're surrounded by HDZ, you're strong when you're in the group, there's a fellow Shucker for what, then fear. You're saying that it would make a man uncomfortable to enter the institutions of the state administration? In Croatia? So no one sends you to Serbia, Bosnia, Macedonia, Croatia. Those of you who still think you're a state-owned factory party out there have little appreciation for your own bodies, so how will others appreciate us then?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101479	Dragan the Black Replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101480	Well, I'm not sure if it's a replica or a supplement. When a colleague was talking about voter and citizen fraud, I would add one more thing, in fact, if it was possible, or if a fraud was made, in particular, in a decision to call a referendum on the rights of national minorities? Therefore, when a sufficient number of signatures were collected but the Constitutional Court found in its statement that it did not comply with the constitutional referendum issue, and we know why this issue was called to amend the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And then the Constitutional Court determined on behalf of two supporting materials that, especially for the City of Vukovar, the statutes and laws must be regulated. That's what I'd say if it was a kind of scam for those of you who signed this initiative that didn't just refer to this question. However, in its arguments, the Constitutional Court also said that since the obligations and interpretations of requests for a referendum are not subject to the rules relating to these referendums, there was one guideline or advice, so that the Assembly must in the future, all of this material must contain a detailed picture of the facts and circumstances which led to the referendum issue in the proposed content and a sufficient and relevant explanation of the reasons why the referendum is to be called for. Any new submissions made by the constituency committee in the need to request that the referendum be called, means that they are prepared and delivered to the Constitutional Court after the Croatian Parliament has not discussed it, therefore they will not be taken into account. I think this is another kind of scam.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101481	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101482	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I got here before lunch, which is really rare. I'd say on behalf of the HDZ Club a few opening notes. Today we are talking about a law where colleagues have illustrated their views that this is the law that HDZ de facto submitted to this home, that the manuscript is being observed, that a colleague of Grbin only entered some minor changes into the text that I have proposed in my term in the Assembly, that even the manuscript as says colleague Anticevic, I would like to reassure you of that truth, because I have read my text and this text, and I can tell you that this is not prescribed by the HDZ law, that we would never write anything like this to me. He agrees in some minor points, especially in the techniques of implementing the referendum, he agrees in the fact that the extended deadline for collecting signatures to 30 days, but in most key issues this law disagrees with what HDZ tried but failed to implement through Parliament in its past term. Perhaps it would be a good suggestion to call this law instead of calling it the referendum law its real name and that's the law banning the referendum. I'll try to illustrate to you what has already been said many times, which is why we think it's a law forbidding referendums. Most importantly, I would say the paper is the fact that this law prescribes signatures in the referendum initiative to be collected in the offices of the state administration. It's also said for this pay phone that there are about 330, which is not true. In those 330s, I don't know what you've been counting, but we guarantee that the Office of the State has no 330. They're not even there when you add up all their bases and they're not there in particular if you remember that you've recently proposed a merger of the state administration's offices that you're proposing to be 5, we don't know where they're going to be based and they'll be called regular numbers from 1 to 5. In those offices, if you have a consistent policy, you send people to collect signatures for the referendum. How are you going to explain where these offices are located, I don't think it's clear to you either. But it's just one of the questions that you regulate with this law. It is our view that the referendum as a form of direct democracy is the essence of the declaration of our citizens, our voters, to them the most appropriate way possible. Which means in as many places as possible, you should allow them to express their satisfaction or dissatisfaction by signing an initiative to hold a referendum. And we came to the referendum not because in principle the question in the Constitution is that citizens in the referendum decide on certain issues but rather because you have received referendums as a reaction of society to the policy led by the Kukuriku coalition to their government. And that's actually the truth that made the referendums appear, and now you're finding them, so I'm going to say relatively non-transparent ways to make referendum initiatives appear, if they don't ban but they're essentially constraint. There's another question that you've spoken quite differently in the opposition, and it's back to you now and in the referendum law. You haven't changed the required number of lists and you say it will take 10% of the total number of voters to make some initiative valid. I'll remind you because you're representatives of the ruling coalition. Minister Bauk says the first 10% figure for the 452 thousand 613 voters vote. After that, the Constitutional Court says 10% of the total number of voters is 404 thousand 252. Roughly 50 grand less. And afterwards for the presidential elections in his report, Minister Bauk says we need 377 thousand 928 voters who make up 10%. After 3 years of your government, that's how you solved the voters' lists, how you solved the voters' register and how you solved these basic premises so you could call a referendum. So we differ in official statements in some 70,000 voters. Probably if we talked more times that range would be bigger, I guess. What we think is not correct when you propose such a referendum law is the fact that you claim to allow direct democracy by these measures as you have suggested. I'll try to illustrate it with the text in your proposal. In Article 3 of the motions, they say: "The referendum cannot take decisions that would jeopardise the values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and decisions which would be contrary to the principle of jurisdiction of the legal acts of the European Union.". If it means that decisions cannot be made, does this mean that a referendum can be called and that only decisions taken at such a referendum will not be valid. Or you're in trouble if you don't know what to ban as a topic of holding a referendum. What will happen by making a decision if you have called a referendum on a question that you cannot make such a decision, the applicant has failed to decide. And maybe an important note because of everything that's been going on so far. I have a question about what the Croatian government is actually doing. The Act on the Part-Corruption of Ministries of Article 10 provides for you, among other things, the work of the Ministry of Administration. And so far, it's always been the Ministry of Administration that proposed the electoral system, so in this case, the referendum law. Now, not for the first time, here was the Law on Elections of Representatives, proposing a Committee on the Constitution. Is the reason the Ministry of Administration doesn't know what 10% of the total number of voters enrolled and the Committee on the Constitution knows that? Is the reason why the Chairman of the Constitution Committee, which provides us with a statement on the resolution of such issues in European countries, is so sure of his knowledge, and presents only certain examples which are, in addition, incorrect. So he forgot to say let's say, and others spoke in Italy was almost impossible to hold a referendum at federal level. As it says, in the Federal Republic of Germany it is not possible to call a referendum at all, etc., etc. Prescription of certain provisions in the legislation of European countries but only part of it is pointless, so such a methodology should not apply to us either. So we haven't even solved 10% of this bill. You've already heard pictures of how elections were held for the President of the Republic and how people waited in columns of hours to be able to achieve their electoral right at all, and now you're directing them to the offices of the state administration. In doing so, the promoter probably does not know at all what state administration offices look like and that a large part of them is extremely inappropriate in order to organise a signing there because of poor, derust, small spaces. Don't just have the biggest centres in the Republic of Croatia in front of your eyes so you know what it's about. And then another rescue solution, after such a restrictions on the collection of signatures, came up with a proposal from the committee, and they said that the signatures would be collected online. And I'd like to thank my colleagues from the SDP who took an excellent example. My colleague says my parents are informically illiterate, so I'm going to assist them in the vote in the referendum. Congratulations. I'm afraid that's the taste of your proposal. You can thus assist everyone in this referendum, but then the question is how legitimate such votes will be and what will be the decision in that referendum. Please don't assist in referendums, don't pass a law like this, because this law doesn't help but defuses the holding of a referendum. And that citizens question you in the referendums on your government's disastrous policy is the thing that you have to face and you have to fight, but not in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101483	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101484	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Mlakar, I agree with your claims that such a law would never be written to me and that this is actually a law banning the referendum because obviously SDP wants to continue to work in the same way as it has done this 4 years. In fact, they have been working day and night for 4 years to destroy the democratic achievements that we have had, which concern the entire political life in the Republic of Croatia, and they keep saying and they constantly underline it, we are modern. They're modern and they've annulled all the reach. I remind you, the concept of consensus has disappeared from this assembly at all, from this home. Laws that are passed, promoted or intended to prevent individuals, I mention lex Komadino, lex Perkovic, lex Cacic, etc., election by the scribe, director of HRT, all the other opportunities we had to choose, election engineering that adapted the rules for themselves to achieve some result in future elections. And now from Peji's workshop comes a new trick. He says sign in the offices, you have the option online and we've given you more opportunities. Now let's imagine what it's going to look like in practice. Here's an example of a highway monetization or that referendum. What's going on is someone remembered that something the government didn't do right, organized a question and delivered it to the state administration's office. It means it has only a beginning, the implementation of the referendum itself gives the offices of the state administration and state officials. You can if you have a chance to get there, if you don't, you don't even have a chance to come, then they tell you you have an online signature so sign. No one controls the signing process at all except for the few civil servants. Where's the initiator? What's he controlling? What kind of information are they given? If we have any promotions at all, will they stand outside the state administration's office or will give daily press conferences and explain to people. So there's a whole guilty procedure and there's just no direct contact between the one who initiates and the one...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101485	Thank you very much. Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101486	Dear counterpart Boris, what I am amazed by this proposal may have shortened a bit, it is a matter of freedom and direct democracy, and how it is today experienced in these concrete examples and proposals of the law. What I didn't say, and I think it's important, I believe that my colleague Lesar will talk about it, he's saying I'd say for even years that the Constitutional Court will solve some dilemmas before we go into the whole referendum process, but that's just a little bit out of the question in this law. That's not what law says. There's still a complicated way, and there's still more control here through the state administration's offices. We didn't even illustrate what it would be like to face those who are holding a referendum tomorrow when they try to apply this law, not to talk about a pro-tourendum committee that will report, which can initiate serious riots. But what I'm more afraid of when tomorrow's referendum initiative against another wise government law comes tomorrow, the government will be the one to form a pro-tourendum committee that will, at the same time as some advocate for breaking the law, tear them down rather than make better proposals in some new law. So much for how much this went beyond the proposal and how much time it takes to spend on this, to talk about it this way. I believe that it is much simpler for the Committee on the Constitution, Mr. Grbin can take a few more countries as an example, so let's say we study the subject and make too many proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101487	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101488	A fellow Mlakar, Law forbidding a referendum or anti-national. But don't get involved in a debate about the number of state administration offices, because it doesn't matter if there are 300 or 3000, because there are two other problems. First of all, just working days and only the working hours of those offices. So, the employees of this country should take sick leave, vacation, day off, which if I could go sign that initiative, because at 16.00 or at 15.00 a key in the lock, there is no more. Second, it's not on-line. Watch out they've got you hooked up to an online signing. No, just in the system of e-citizens, and that's not the same. Third, what control of the referenda initiator is possible in the signing of the collected Office of State Administration and e-Citizens. How the initiators can control whether the state system has all the ones that came in. In the law of it, not a word. It is insisted that the State should control the initiators. Okay. How can the initiators control the state? Not at all. And the following, so long as the Constitutional Court, by its own word or confirmation of constitutionality and the permission of the referendum issue, will not be at the beginning of the proceedings, and not at the end as it is now, which means the initiators go first to the Constitutional Court, asking for confirmation of constitutionality, permission to ask questions. And only after that age are they going to collect signatures. Only then will we have a clear situation to avoid this trap that is deliberately set into the legislative system, that at the end of the procedure when all the Constitutional Court finds the reasons for declaring an anti-constitutional non-constitutional or anti-European to make a joke about this formulation in Article 3 of the Law which you have pointed out and prohibit the holding of a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101489	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101490	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lesar, we are... on several occasions on the board, we tried to reassure the proposings of some of the measures that remained. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] But I guess we weren't convincing enough. You were now talking about the working time of the Office of the State Administration, a colleague from the HDZ Club, read to you the opinion of the Civil Service Unions that they even think they are the ones who collect signatures for some referendums. And given the importance of the subject and time, I didn't want to further irritate any other provisions. How much time does it allow me only for the illustration of those who follow to see how this law which, every law should be precise and simple, understandable to the citizens and therefore has this vacatio legion of eight days to get to know the provisions of the law. I tried, but I have to admit I can't keep track. Therefore, the need to ask for a local referendum to be called on the voter's proposal should be made known to listen well to the local and regional self-government unit in which more than 10 to 30 thousand voters enrolled in the voter register of that unit live. You need to collect the sum of two thousand voters and 16.7% of that number of voters who exceed 10,000 voters. Whoever came up with this really deserves the Nobel Prize, because the next item is a sum of 5340 voters and 13.3% of that number of voters who cross 30,000. It's not that it's not clear to anyone who's reading your regulations and not that they're going to give up on the referendum, they're going to give up on following what's going on in this country. 'Cause this is sorry it doesn't make sense. This is some math that you've been adapting to, I don't know what, except for the fact that you don't really want any more referendums to tell you in person what he thinks about your policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101491	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101492	Dear colleague Mlakar, you said in the opening statement that this law is the only goal of a referendum not being held at all. And what the government can do at all when a wave of dissatisfaction takes place, when the avalanche of a referendum takes place, rather than passing a law like this that will make such a thing impossible and that the public will be silenced not to talk about their failures. We witnessed two weeks ago similar to one of these laws, quickly in one reading in the election year when neither the one who proposed, and in the end not all those who voted for him knew about it, and we don't know what they voted for today either. If he had been willing to go to the people, he would have made a referendum public. So if they've already set up places to vote, we can see that there are some opponents because it was signed in front of the churches, why they didn't allow the signatures to be collected in local self-government units. We have local committees to approach these places of signing where people live and where people live and where people work. This law is the only goal of the referendum no longer simply being and I think that any further debate is unnecessary and that it should be made clear. The government does not want referendums during its rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101493	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101494	Thank you very much. So what they wanted to prescribe by this law is enough for two articles, one of which should be read when the law enters into force. And that one article that does not write should read until further notice is forbidden to hold any referendum, because when you look at the structure of this law, then someone will also ask about those issues that cannot be decided on in the referendum but the referendum can be called. It's boredom, I mean a unique case in practice. No one has been told and who will be the arbiter who will speak the values of the constitutional order that cannot be questioned in the referendum. It is just an article that the decision in the referendum on these issues cannot be made. That is why I also spoke to my colleague, Lesar, in the part where he spoke about the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court before the start of the referendum activities, so before this initiative, because it was not resolved in the end. The Constitutional Court has remained in the position it had been in before, and we do not know who will assess it at all, I fear the parliamentary majority or did not give the God of the Croatian Government which these issues are allowed in the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101495	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101496	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you've well defined what's behind this law that clearly leads to the maximum difficulty, the disabling of the referendum, the discouragement of citizens in their initiatives could clearly be defined as over, you won't be making any more remarks about what we're doing. We are the smartest, Peja Grbin is the creator of our Constitution, he is the most professional man who will tell you when the question is good and when it is not. No more, no more GONG, no more associations, no more independent unions, no more organisations on these 43 pages of objections from the 56 pages of the law are respected. The compass, civil rights and initiatives will no longer be implemented. No longer will anyone dare to collect signatures, no. If you want to stand by day and night in columns to sign your possible referendum initiative in the offices of the state administration in the county. As is the case in BiH for voters, it also envisions in the Republic of Croatia for all referendum initiatives that seek to correct the injustices that seem to citizens with legal proposals. It's a good thing this is being discussed, and it would be nice if any objections were accepted and civil liberties would not be suppressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101497	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101498	Well, maybe one suggestion from a colleague, Djakic, because you said it all. The intentions are clear, but perhaps the suggestion to get out of this problem is not to regulate the state administration, and not to be completely acceptable to people and never to question the collection of signatures in public spaces wherever it was possible to organise. Now they're bothered by getting signatures from companies as far as I can tell. But there is another idea, Croatia has one single regulation again, with shopping centers working 24 hours. Although in their home countries in these same shops often after 6:00 p.m., you can't come in and work with us until 23 or 24. Well, then let's not torture the offices of the state administration, maybe by the time the second reading comes along with the amendment to collect it in shopping malls.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101499	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101500	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Mlakar that the fact is that this proposal is actually in the service of disrupting direct democracy, not encouraging it. Just two examples. One is that the Law on Election Registers does not form a public eyewitness on the number of voters living somewhere, and it says here about voters living somewhere, but who have a residence somewhere. Thus, it is a reflection of or a complete ignorance of the legal person who has passed this law or of the deliberate introduction of confusion into some concepts. And to this end, it is certain from the fact that the law, the final draft of the Law on Amendments and the additions to the State Administration System Act, which I remind her of, has passed two readings here, but fortunately it is not yet a day to vote, but it may happen this Friday, it is only proposed to be 5 offices of the state administration. Therefore, given that this bill says so and can only be interpreted in such a way that each of these five seats would thus be directed at 900 thousand voters. In fact, if you look at the assessment of the situation in the assessment of the situation, however, it says that it will include 90 so far and 302 parent offices, so 400 places around, but it does not appear in the law, but if it is accepted, it is again the focus of 11 250 voters on each single administrative place. And I remind you that there were 6714 polling stations in the 2014 constitutional referendum, namely 670 voters' gravity at 1 polling post. So, if this were to be accepted, even this interpretation not of the letter of the law but of the interpretation would actually be a disabling vote. And this 900 grand story is special.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101501	Thank you very much. Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101502	Dear Vice President Reiner, I answered with a replica to tell you don't worry, it's not just five offices, it's going to be a little bit more. Whether it will be enough given the fact that by some calculations for elections in the polling post at the time specified for the elections can vote up to 7,000 people all clear to you. No one wanted anyone who might give their voice in that initiative to get that chance. And again we return to that shameful holding of the presidential elections and we have spoken to the government, we have spoken to the parliamentary majority according to our constitution there are no exclusive Croats. They are all equal under the same conditions as you give your vote in each election, so you must guarantee it to those who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. Now even for the referendum, and we have failed to vote, I may take it as a free assessment that both elections and more important than any referendum, where we have not arranged the ability to vote by electronic means, we do so for referendums but in complete fog. We don't know who, when and on whose behalf they will vote, and even less who will control those voices, probably one such handsome illustration, our colleague spoke of his parents as to what is true for many, and I'm afraid that no referendum that any hairs under this law will answer at all can get a sufficient number of votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101503	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101504	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Mlakar, I noticed this when you were talking about the Offices of State Administration. Well, here in my county there are 3 to 120 grand, there's another number of outposts but they work once a week from 7 to 3, from 7 to 3 once a week. And now count on God not to get sick by the one who works there to mean what is the possibility of relief and availability? Now there is, says another form, which is the one through these modern technological achievements and then we hear that information has in our home country 4 million and 600,000 mobiles, 4 million and 600,000, there are, but also many in rural areas only that understand that green and red button, and when it says it calls for help when it makes an old man sick, because the gerontodians and so are in accordance with the censorships cut and call for help. Now these are reliefs and accomplishments. And now, under these circumstances, to compare with European countries, I don't know if you'd cry or cry. They say there in that Europe is not good, it's not good, especially in that Bavarian saying it's not as good as there's nothing, and what we're doing here fine in the cellophane wrapped up it'll make it easier to be available, make it possible and all that expensive. Well, it won't be our people, no one came here from Oktoberfest, and the question arises is whether anyone was at the Octoberfest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101505	As far as I know, there were some. Davor's Mlakar response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101506	Thank you, dear colleague Milinkovic. I don't know what was going on at the Oktobefest, but now in this debate, I've only got one question to ask, which is the government of the world in this case, but the majority of the council is based on the law on the number of cell phones in the country? That correlation is completely incomprehensible to me. So that I wouldn't say by the way that I don't know what they are and who counted it all, and that I know for one good part those phones that you can't get these phones to do, they get me smart phones, because many of them you can't get into any system at all, except that you can pay for good impulses and use our operators. But based on the fact that people say the most important questions here, we also talk to those who are particularly protected by the Constitution, guaranteed questions, based on the number of cell phones in the country, that's never even Monty Python was able to calculate. This is something after paying taxes by the number of words in the paper this is the best thing I've ever heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101507	Since some committees are starting now, we have three more replicas, if you're going to be rational and we're going to finish them and I'm going to be a little late. And please don't pass the time. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101508	And pro per colleague Mlakar because you know what the final version of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament looks like? And let me know, given that you were the secretary of the administration, whether you were in one act, forming a government, on the tasks of ministries, offices, etc. read that they're in charge of collecting any signatures in this country? Now a big question is being raised, and therefore I set out, given that we saw a huge business skip when we passed the Law on selecting MPs in the Croatian Parliament, but now we are asking one other question, in our Rules of Procedure, it says that the Government, in fact, the Croatian Parliament cannot pass a law or regulations that are not provided with resources in the state budget. Since you and I and every benevolent person in this country have not seen anywhere that in one word mentioned that no matter how many of these state administrations collect signatures for this or that, then the question arises whether the Grand President of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure has sent a law that is once again contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament? And that the practice of this political majority is also known in 2010 when they practically set up an ultimatum to end Croatia's negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU, about the amendments to the Constitution where outside the Republic of Croatia practically made it impossible for Croats to express their political will, it is obvious that it is in exactly the same way that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who therefore live and work in the Republic, what they keep mentioning is that they pay taxes in the Republic to publicly express their opinion through referendums to agree or disagree with something.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101509	Davor's Mlakar response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101510	Comrade Shuker, I disagree with you because you could have asked a different question. Where's the government? So even if she's not a proposaler of such fine works, then as an interested woman, it would be good to sit here and listen to the proposals of the MPs, although we don't hold them especially when they come from this side but it wouldn't be a bad idea to use other people's experiences as well. Especially given the fact that many are asking the question of what the idea of collecting signatures in state administration offices corresponding to the same government and for which the ministry has always been responsible, but only until Zoran Milanovic was the one who was the holder of the regulation in this area. That's what I was saying in the introduction, it says in the Department of Administration's section, and today it says that this law should propose that the Ministry of Administration should be drawn up and then, with some likely agreement in the Government, come before the Parliament. It is not the first law to be taken from the ministry's section and declared to be a competent and interested Committee on the Constitution where our minority of votes unfortunately cannot fix even the texts that we claim are not, are not even logical. Let's not go any further. Although with this last one you spoke of as an electoral who is like a unicorn, no one knows what it actually looks like with its own amendments, the SDP has fixed some of the nebuloses that were standing there, although it has not accepted our proposals and understanding as it is said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101511	Thank you very much. Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101512	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, here's colleague Mlakar, you've actually spoken about it for almost 2 or 3 years in this House about certain things that are definitely not good and the Croatian Parliament should change them and it's about respecting, in fact, equal and electoral, general rights of all Croatian citizens from 18 years of age. It is logical that this representative body, which represents all Croatians, we should talk about it both in Croatia and outside Croatia, and then you said that the law was misspelled. And the fact is it's misspelled. If you see in this article 4 it is said that the right to decide on a referendum is given to all Croatian citizens at the age of 18. The rules of some nice behavior the Proposer of this law should at least be here in the assembly and listen to all the suggestions, all the clubs and should know from what he said during today that it will be possible to do it on the line, that it will be possible to do it through mobile devices. It should also be warned that this will not be possible and that all Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia will be excluded from this and could not participate in any future referendums under this proposal. I don’t know why it’s being silenced and why it keeps running away from this article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, if the proposal was to be adopted, wanted to improve something under this proposal, then it should also go to constitutional changes, or to amend this Article 45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101513	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101514	Dear counterpart Babić, I will answer you why the promoter.../The speaker turned off and subsequently turned on./... You didn't get a good look at the opening argument when you passed the law. The promoter knows everything, he knows how it is in Norway, how it is in Belgium, how it is in Italy, although half-uses those examples, but he's been waiting for us from a pay phone all the time that we don't know everything and what we should understand. And now you're surprised he's not here when we're discussing the law. Well, he knows about our remarks, too. He knows he'll throw them all away with disgust because he doesn't care. They don't even know how to read the texts they write themselves often, so when you convince them that it's not well written they ignore you best, but then someone else warns them under the grain, between the first reading and the second reading, or before the vote, the electoral law corrected their own amendments even though our own ones refused and interpreted that we were talking nonsense and that they didn't understand what we were talking about. It is therefore surprising today that there is no one from the government why the government would be interested in referendums when it was agreed that the referendums in Croatia would be abolished and the committee's proposal, the board president knows everything in advance, so we have settled all open issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101515	And Drazenko Pandek, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101516	Thank you. Dear colleague, you have referred to my remark that I will help my parents to sign support for certain referendums in a way that implies that I could then, as if they had no will, force them to give support to a particular referendum. So it's not how they vote in the referendum, it's how they support it. Please, though my parents may not have enough information skills to approach the referendum on their own, i.e. Giving support to a referendum on-line, they're not stupid, they can think for themselves. And people who don't have enough information skills aren't stupid enough to think for themselves. So please don't insult them or my parents in this way. And a classic vote is no guarantee that abuses will not be. Well, I've seen myself there since the late '90s, the old women their sons or grandchildren used to take to the polls and they had those jokesbachter HDZ. No model is ideal, I agree, probably not ideal, abuse can always be. And when we talk about abuse, then it seems to me that maybe even this proposal suits the HDZ more because, to some extent, here is one... that allows the dead to support the referendum at a certain point, and so far it has been a voting body that has been most favored by you. However, it seems to me that this proposal still brings significant improvements to the situation so far, especially since it allows for this online vote, rather than so far. You're from the right corner of the assembly hoarse when it's said that no more can be done in any market or in front of the churches, and I agree that this is now what's offered a better solution. I went to Mass and there's a man catching me, he says, sign that, then I have to explain to him why I don't want to sign something, get into a debate in front of a hundred people, then he starts attacking me and insulting me. It's not a problem for me because I'm used to publicly expressing my opinion, I don't have a problem with it, but a lot of my fellow citizens told me that it was very embarrassing for them. Some even signed something that maybe they didn't just want to get rid of, not get into awkward situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101517	Thank you very much. Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101518	Comrade Pandek, what happens when the civil servants start attacking you at the offices? How are you going to get rid of that? I'm sorry if you misunderstood me, and I didn't mention you by name and last name at all, and the less God gave you your parents. I consider myself informational semi-literate if I'm not illiterate and I didn't talk about your parents or about you, and I took your statement as an example of what might happen. I believe that you in the SDP have passed absolutely all the courses and that you are breaking up with these new technologies, but I assure you, the SDP is from its membership to the support of the elections yet only one smaller power in the state and you cannot think on the basis of your knowledge that the whole of Croatia is as valuable as you and that it will be able to use these new technologies in the same way. I didn't think I was going to say it, maybe my mom won't know how to take part in the referendum this way, and I'm afraid it's gonna be difficult for me too, and that's why I don't think this principle is good. And you are de facto yourself suggesting the possibility of abuse of such a way of participating in the referendum, and you are in favour of democracy in the state. You're a little short on something in that combination. Therefore, I believe that given the new technologies, you will, of all things, reassure us, but today I wonder how someone from Gunje will be able to participate in your referendum. That's what you have to answer to the Croatian public, not me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101519	We'll continue at 3:00. The first in line will be my colleague, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101520	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. On behalf of the Labour Party Club, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and welcome to the great number of colleagues and colleagues present in the chateau. First, I want to make it impossible for anyone in the future to tell the truth about who proposed that only 200 thousand citizens' signatures be required for the state referendum as it happened today. So on 12 October 2012, the Croatian Labour Club proposed a decision to join constitutional changes with only one provision of 200000. On 8 February 2013, the proposal was rejected by the Parliament vote. It's about the truth and the desire to prevent further falsification and misrepresentation. As far as the law we're discussing is concerned, he carries with him three disgraces. The first shame is the shame of the past, and of the government, and of the Parliament, and of the government. On 22.10.2010, the Constitutional Law on the Implementation of Constitutional Amendments was adopted, which ordered the amendment of the Law on Referendum or New Law to be laid down no later than 6 months. That deadline passed on 22 April 2011, and I believe that we will finally bring the referendum law to the very fourth anniversary of the deadline. So, I suggest that on 22 April this year, when exactly 4 years have passed since the deadline when the law was to be passed, we do so. The second shame of the law is in the very content because it is anti-national, it suppresses the possibility of direct democracy. I remind you that in Article 1. The Constitution writes that the people exercise power by choosing their representatives and by direct decision. The constitutional right of the people to this bill restricts the Constitution and the will of the citizens. Only by a possible referendum would such a restriction be acceptable if citizens accepted it in the referendum. It is interesting and interesting that the same approach towards the referendum also has a democratic party and a democratic community in their work and behaviour. The third disgrace of this law is the order of decision that is crucial in the democratic procedure. This time, I will make it clear that the current ruling majority led by the SDP whose name came from the negotiations of counterpart Grbin has rejected the proposal to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitutional Court Act, which the Constitutional Court would have put at the beginning of the procedure and confirm the referendum issue. From how important this is you can see or be seen at the point we are going to discuss today, and this is for a referendum on highway monetization. I remind you, there may be a call to this referendum and there will be, but there will be no legal effect if the government enters a contract before that. The decision to adopt the law in the referendum does not have a return effect and, in that case, it would not affect the referendum's decision on the contracts already concluded. In part of the public there is always an anti-referendum hysteria as if every month we had a referendum in Croatia, and so far we had only three, and in the local only ten of which only three succeeded. The bill of law has two pranks in it. First, it allows representative bodies and executive authorities to make the opposite decision or decision contrary to the referendum issue not only from the moment of the publication of the start of the signature collection, not only since the end of the signing, not only from the date of the start of the decision on the initiative in the Assembly, not only from the date on which it was established that a sufficient number of signatures have been collected, nor since the Parliament has sent the issue to the Constitutional Court, but not even from the date on which the referendum was called, but only the date on which the official results of the referendum were announced. Practically until the date of the referendum, that is, the date of the declaration of the official results of the representative body and the executive authorities may decide, adopt laws and decisions contrary to the referendum issue. And so long as there is no limit that from the moment the initiative officially verified the number of signatures does not create a ban on the opposite decision-making of any referendum initiative of this maneuver can be fully denied, destroyed and put into a senseless state. And the second prank is that the decision taken in the referendum is only worth two years. Not even one entire representative mandate, two years. And after that, only one man head of the municipality, mayor and mayor or 20 people in the government or 150 people in the Parliament can make decisions contrary to the referendum's decisions. Consider the purpose of the referendum if it can be annulled by an act by the head of the municipality, mayor or mayor. Whether the decision in the referendum is only changing in a more recent referendum or in the event that it is worth as much as one representative mandate, the term of office of the representative body. As regards the specific provisions and our proposals, Article 3 is considered not to be legal but only to lay down restrictions on the area of decision-making in the referendum. So, just by the Constitution, not by this law. Secondly, as regards Articles 7 and 10, the total number of constituents of the Constitutional Court's decisions for one disputed number of signatures is no longer valid since there has been so much change in the number of voters in the Republic of Croatia in the meantime that the Constitutional Court should establish a new figure in order to delete a large number of voters from the voters' register. So, don't call yourself 40,000 anymore, that was then. It's no longer worth it. Article 9 contains approximately the following mathematics, in municipalities and cities with 10 thousand voters for the referendum requires 20% of signatures. In cities, municipalities with 20,000 voters require even 18.3% of signatures. In cities with 60,000 voters, 15.55% of voters' signatures should be collected. In cities and counties of 200 thousand inhabitants 12.32%. So when you disintegrate article 9 into mathematics, then this data is correct. So in cities and counties with 200 thousand inhabitants, it takes more than 10% of the signatures, 12.32% of what it is for the state referendum. Now I guess you can see why this article is written like that. Article 13 is totally unacceptable for signatures to be collected in the offices of the state administration, especially since it applies only to working days, only to office hours, which means that all people who are employed, who work, have been disabled. Absurd whether the law allows the initiative to replace the mayors of the municipality and the mayor to decide that signing the signature for the referendum in his cabinet is preferably at his secretary's office, and in time, let's say from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. That's what this law allows. The political elite therefore holds the signatures collected everywhere and in front of churches and in taverns and fairs, but not for the referendum. Someone swallowed or most colleagues who had previously discussed that the signatures would be able to collect online, so you go online, click and sign. No, the law contains in itself a clear provision through the system of e-Citizens. And so long as there are not at least 60% of voters in the E-Citizen system, at least 60% of voters over 2.5 million voters, so long it has been called a hoax, a fraud and something we cannot tolerate. And here we suggest that the place to collect signatures is in all places where public gathering is allowed. I repeat, in all places where a public gathering is allowed, as will all candidates for local elections and all those who will compete for the next parliamentary elections in those places. For the purposes of Article 17, following a request for easier control of the number of signatures and automation, the head of the central authority of the state administration is required to issue the number of signatures collected within 30 days of the date of completion of the collection of the signatures. So why do he need 30 days when he's got everything online in the state administration's offices? Instead of 30 days, five days. Article 21, the validity of the decision in the local referendum here is predicted to be 1/3, we suggest that instead of 1/3 be 25% plus 1 voter. There is no such decision in the local referendum that would be worth asking for more than a quarter of the total number of voters. Article 22, the referendum decision is worth 4 years, as well as one representative mandate. Article 25, the time that must pass from the decision to the call for a referendum here says 30 to 60, we propose 20 to 45 days. In Article 30, the provision prohibits all media from publishing any survey on the referendum issue 15 days before the referendum is held. We are seriously proposing this because the manipulation of the polls in Croatia has been too much so far and I think we must slowly introduce a ban on publishing polls before the elections and in this case the referendum. These are concrete proposals on specific provisions. And since I still have a little time, I'm going to remind you again of the absurdity. When citizens are in favour of a referendum on strictest control, we're looking for citizen oversight, I guess they'll have to bring a file with them to sign. Since you insist on the Office of State Administration, why didn't you go to the police station? Well, I think that's the simplest thing. I can get a fingerprint there right now if I have to. So, the most rigorous control that is signed for the elections, the number of lists in 2011 if again in these parliamentary elections each list must have 1500 signatures at least. The DIP is running a signature check, according to the law you voted last week, the DIP has only 48 hours of time to check those signatures. 450 thousand signatures should be checked at 48 hours and declared a list valid or not based on it. You really believe that the DIP has these capacities to carry out that check in 48 hours and this law where citizens would sign a referendum initiative in the Office of the State Administration provides that the state has another 30 days to control and announce whether a sufficient number of signatures has been collected. So, when we ask for the citizens' signature to support us in the elections, it doesn't matter where it is, it doesn't matter where it is, but when citizens want a referendum, then you'll come to the Office of State Administration with your ID card, but the initiators of the referendum, so the organization, the Association of Citizens, a group of people, a group of voters who initiated the referendum, do not allow any control over the state and the state administration whether it recorded all the signed days. There is no possibility that the initiative committee will exercise control over the conduct of local and state administrations, so much for your trust with citizens of gentlemen from the hip of the Greek coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101522	The replica of the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101523	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lesar, I strongly agree with your presentation, especially what you have ended up with on the one hand, when you determine the credibility of the signature for the referendum, and on the other hand, when it determines the credibility of the signatures supported by the lists in the elections. In my opinion, this law will not come out of Parliament, and I believe that he will not go into another reading since he suffers a large number of legitimate remarks that we have heard all morning. One of the fundamental remarks is, in my view, limiting the possibility of a plea where all of this is now now brought down to the Offices of State Administration. It is, I am not a lawyer, but it seems to me to be a constitutional article guaranteeing freedom of expression of thought really limits as soon as someone's position on a particular referendum issue can only be supported in a specific place in the Offices of State Administration which are largely inaccessible to the majority of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Absolutely then, such a bill restricts this constitutional law, and I believe that if this law came out of Parliament that it would certainly fail the constitutionality test, and I believe that a large number of associations and citizens' initiatives would test this law in that section of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I agree with everything you said, even the Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights said something about it and still supported the law. This is a little strange, where the first reading report lists the doubt about the unconstitutional nature of such a provision, and when they voted they voted 6 for and only 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101524	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101525	Comrade Bačić, you have expressed hope that this law will not be passed in this form. I assure you that only elections can prevent that. So, the 17th of May, you know? So, it's not my date, I didn't propose it to anyone, I just wrote what I heard from the ranks of those who decided nothing else. Now maybe a week or two to the left, the devil will know it, but it doesn't matter. And secondly, you can see that it would be easy to solve the problem of whether such a law is acceptable to the citizens, I remind you of the provision of Article 1 of the citizens directly decide. If the rulings are convinced that this law is acceptable to the citizens, and that all of us who criticise it have evil intentions and that we are under the influence of some, someone has even mentioned financial interests, then I suggest that the Parliament, before the adoption, or that the Parliament call a referendum on this law and that the citizens adopt it or reject it in a referendum. And then we will see in action the direct decision of the citizens and do they accept these restrictions that are imposed against them by the Constitution and their will in the law? I believe that my colleague Bacic, you agree with me, that no honest intention of political parties will escape from the will of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101526	Second replica of the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101527	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lesar, you have now raised another question that, if I am not mistaken, no one has reached today, and that is the fact that if a referendum on highway monetization and passing and being positive, it can happen because there is no feedback that this referendum is actually Pir's victory. I think, knowingly, this whole procedure is difficult to do at the same time under the grains, not to say, what is wanted to be done, or rather, by the will of the citizens, to undertake the monetization of Croatian highways or to be specific and to sell. But there's one more thing that bothers me and I can't help but ask you not as an experienced politician here, and there are others here who smile so clearly, one day, as things now stand, it might be very soon to change power. Given the homogeneity of one electoral body and the other. What a realistic possibility it is that the soon-to-be opposition is even organising any referendum. And do they even think about whether they're aware that they're not just putting a string around their necks but a little bit and tightening that same rope?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101528	Replication response, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101529	I'm gonna start a colleague with this other part. When I saw what motion the ruling was going to go with, I expected HDZ to say, let's just say, that suits us but they're against this law, too, they've probably changed their attitude and they're aware that disabling a democratic procedure isn't smart for anyone. And as for the one about the highway monetization and maybe a possible referendum. Indeed, there is no limit to neither the executive nor the representative's authority to take decisions contrary to the referendum issue during the duration of the referendum initiative. Secondly, there are no deadlines in which, according to this current existing model of legislation, some action must be settled except for the constitutional court's deadline that, when it receives the request of the Parliament, there are 30 days to be seen. And when that response from the Constitutional Court comes, there are no more deadlines for a referendum. So it can theoretically happen that the government, because of that unfortunate Law on Management and availability, has concluded an agreement on the monetization of highways in Croatia and then a referendum is called. And when the referendum passes and the decision comes to that business, the legal act of the conclusion of the contract has no effect because the referendum issue does not provide for its feedback. And that's how that danger threatens. But I did not, I merely cited it as a current example, such situations in life can be very much so that decisions by representative and executive authorities against preparations for the referendum become valid.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101530	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the SDSS club will speak for the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101531	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The stand-alone Democratic Party's club believes that this proposal for a referendum law despite the remarks that can be addressed to it today, some of which today are presented in the debate, which our club also agrees with, is a step forward in relation to what we have so far. So far, we have had a situation which unfortunately poses a risk to the stability of political relations in Croatia, by the stability of political institutions, including party, representative democracy. And I must admit surprised, not to all but to some party representatives who, by discussing this referendum, are actually not taking care of the role of political parties in the political system at all. Then let them decide to abolish their political parties. So let them say they don't need political parties, they just need citizens and direct referendum democracy if that's the case. They say the state should not have any regulatory mechanisms when it comes to the way citizens are participated in political life, that it should simply let it happen as it pleases. So let's take the turn. The question here is not to know what the constitutional values or values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are. How can you not know? Just enough to read a few rulings of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, so you will see what the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution are. It is the protection of political pluralism, it is the protection of interethnic relations, i.e. the rights of national minorities, it is the protection of parliamentaryism, it represents the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution. And one who thinks that parliamentaryism should not be protected by this grave error because parliamentaryism is seriously threatened in this country, not by citizens, is being threatened infrequently by political parties, is being threatened by authorities but is also being threatened by holders of other forms of power such as the media, such as capital. And the duty of those of us sitting in this House is to say so. When it comes to political pluralism, so we know who are the bearers of political pluralism colleagues and colleagues, the Constitution defines it. Is it trying to say that political parties should not be intermediaries between the will of citizens and authorities? Well, of course he's trying. You have months now, and you have cases according to which you say we are a people and you are not a people. You who were in the election, you who received the votes you are not a people, we are the will of the people. See how the pictures look in the media and how the pages are arranged in the media no matter who they are. I've been in this Parliament long enough, I've been in enough of the various political coalitions to see how it worked both when HDZ was in power and when the SDP was in power. You think the parties in that case represent the will? It is, not to use a word. They don't. Therefore, we have a very serious reason to protect the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution, not only when it comes to minority rights, not only when it comes to political pluralism but also when it comes to the protection of parliamentary representative democracy. We have very serious reasons and it would be good if when we are discussing this law, and it should be improved and I hope that by the second reading, this proposal will improve so that we do not lose sight of the whole, which is that the referendum is a good instrument, that it should be developed, but at the same time, it is necessary to watch his relationship with other instruments that exist in the political system. Because what we've had so far, and that's no limit on how many voters will go to the polls, who has rebelled against it, no one. We could have entered the European Union with three votes, so everything would be fine, by law. Did anyone get in the way? It's not. ... I know it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I know it is. I'm a colleague of Lesar's. Were there people who opposed the transfer with such a system of state sovereignty to one state community, not. There were media that blocked the discussion of tones, there were campaigns that blocked the debate on the whole story, efforts were made to prevent participation in the debate over the referendum. Unfortunately, it is. Therefore, this represents a step forward and in order to extend the time for the collection of signatures from 15 to 30 days is also a step forward with regard to the limitation on which the Constitution can be called, which cannot be called by the Constitution, which are issues which may be subject to a plea in the referendum, which cannot, which must be decided by the constitutional assembly elected by the people. And it can't be any different. If it's different, then we're working against the elemental values of our constitution and we need to keep that in mind. Another thing I'd like to say, which is a disputed place. The restriction on the place of signing, the serious restriction, we discussed it on the Committee on the Constitution, but at the same time we should say what the practice has been. So far, the practice has been messy and chaotic. What it takes for any church institution to withdraw from the parliamentary debates on whether priests participate in the organisation of the referendum or not. Instead of protecting church institutions from this kind of profane debate about assemblies or congregations, we allow ourselves to do such things. Who knows how the signatures were collected, how the citizens' home numbers were obtained, how the signatures moved from one referendum to another referendum initiative, who controlled the process, no one. Yes, no one has supervised this process, and now the time has come to oversee this process and we must monitor it, but we must not monitor it by limiting the possibility of citizens having an initiative and I agree. So it's good that we've opened up the possibility of electronic voting or electronic signatures, but I'm not sure, especially when it comes to a referendum on local self-government and regional self-government, I'm not sure it's enough, nor that it's good enough for public administrations to be places to collect signatures. If there are no more precise data about this, not just because of the distance, not only because of the fact that there are no municipalities in the state administration's office but simply because of that, it has been mentioned here several times, especially by colleague Lesar, because the position of power of the mayor, mayor or anyone else can be misused in that case. And we know that there is indeed a partytocratial relationship with citizens and with the instruments of the state administration in certain environments. There is. It's not because there's membership there, it's because it's how you rule. And fellow Grbin, to you as a man with probably the highest degree of responsibility for this I would like to make a proposal to consider how to open ourselves up to that solution. I know that there are countries that have that, and we have neighbouring Slovenia that have that, so it works, so they have referendums. But we still have something different political culture, as there is a political culture that the referendum can be misused so there is a political culture that power is more abused than in some Germany or in Scandinavian countries. You know it as well as I do, and for that reason we have to watch how to avoid the risks that it carries with it. As for the issue of conditions for the success of holding a state referendum and the questions of amending the Constitution that is set here, so it would be good if we could change the Constitution but we couldn't and obviously won't be able to, because the political parties have determined that instead of the agreement on fundamental issues, and the Constitution is a fundamental document, as in some countries and they call their constitutions, we have decided on a political party game and we have almost finished our work to wait and we have rejected it. And unfortunately, we can only seem to agree on human resources solutions where we will place someone in the Constitutional Court, the State Judiciary Council or possibly the State Election Commission. But when it comes to this kind of thing, we can't agree on it. And it is a serious shame and thus we are jeopardizing the function and role of parties in the political system, because we are being too foreign, because we are acting contrary to what is our interest and interest in the Republic of Croatia. So, as regards the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, we support that this proposal goes to another reading, we also support that some elements are improved in this proposal, especially those elements concerning the availability of a referendum initiative to citizens themselves and citizens' participation in the referendum initiative. And in particular, we think it is important to consider the possibility to define differently the supervision of the collection of signatures rather than by strictly binding to the offices of the state administration, especially if they do not define which offices they are, what arrangements they are, where they belong, when they work and the like. So much for this part of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101532	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First dear Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101533	Dear fellow Pupovac, you asked who were in the way or who rebelled against constitutional changes in 2010 and the abolition of the provisions on the validity of the state referendum. That's why I voted against constitutional changes, I was in the way, and I voted against 2010. And I said when my third amendment was denied, you opened Pandora's box. Second, the role of political parties and the protection of parliamentaryism and the preservation of constitutional values. You're absolutely right about that. We must therefore find a limit and a measure of protection or the preservation of parliamentaryism, especially the preservation of constitutional, fundamental constitutional values. That's not controversial. Therefore, we have been talking for a very long time on the Committee on the Constitution and preparing possible constitutional changes. But where do you and I differ this time? It's a place in the Constitution, not in the law. So, as long as this Parliament does not have the strength or the political will to regulate this area into a legislative framework because one egotist has not called another an even greater ego, so they could not agree on a reason why citizens should receive such a referendum law. So, I just insist that what belongs to the Constitution be in the Constitution and that it is within the law to be in the law. That's what this is about. So, I appreciate and share your fear that the referendum could turn into its very opposite, but then we solve it by the Constitution, not by the law. After all, one of the guards there is it's the Constitutional Court. And you can see that my proposal was accepted to put him at the beginning of the procedure how much inconvenience we would have avoided by now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101534	Replication response, Your Honor, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101535	Dear colleague Lesar, I do not have to repeat here, and probably not publicly express to what extent I appreciate your contribution to the debates either on committees, especially on the Committee on the Constitution and here in the Parliament's plenary when it comes to these and other matter. And of course the fact that you are uncommon not only in the minority, but that you are rarely alone in representing individual thesis as was the case with the definition of conditions for maintaining a referendum with amendments to the Constitution. But what I'd like to tell you and what you certainly know, Article 88. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not prevent the adoption of such a law. What has now been done is not in the conflict with the paragraph, the last article of Article 87, which states: "The law can also prescribe conditions for the maintenance of the advisory referendum." Therefore, I know it can also be defined by the Law on Referendum. Therefore, we could continue to read certain provisions, so we could come up with a complete picture of what is found in Article 87. What is important right now is to improve the bad provisions contained in the Constitution and to improve the insufficient provisions that you have warned of in the referendum law itself for years. One of the reasons why this changes is the fact that you asked for the amendment of the referendum law. And what we should It is actually to try to fix this referendum law to what I agree with, which is the final change of the Constitution. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101536	Thank you. New replica, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On the part of your debate regarding the restriction and possible restriction of the referendum initiative in the law itself, of course it is possible, that is, it is quite understandable and possible, by interpreting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the highest values to be stated and cited as the highest values in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should be clear to everyone that then this could not actually be the highest values, could not be the subject of a referendum initiative. But so anyone who knows how to read and interpret the Constitution knows that, however, that the Constitutional Court said it so clearly at the end of 2013 in his decision where he clearly referred to it and said that the constitutional creator, and the founder is the Croatian Parliament, we are the constitutionalists, so the Constitution is made and can be changed exclusively in the Croatian Parliament, can, in order to safeguard these values as well as the Constitutional Court says, limit the referendum initiative. And it would be good to say that we agree on that and that it will no longer be the subject of any other debate. So that's something that's written in the Constitution very clearly, precisely, decided and there's no additional interpretations, and there's no need. And there's no obstacle to anything that's written in the Constitution literally being copied into any law, and then neither in the referendum law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101538	New replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101539	Dear fellow Pupovac, you spoke of limiting the collection of signatures, and when you spoke about it, you said that practice was different from legal solutions, which is correct. But we here so kindly every time we find that the law is broken, and there are no sanctions against those who have broken the law. There's not even a sanction against a government that violates the law. So, we bring laws here, and we let the kickings get in the way of these laws. I repeat once again with the online signing absolutely certain that it should be possible for the signatures to be given in public spaces, not only in the official premises. You were talking about changing the Constitution and that it would be good if we had changed the Constitution. If we wanted to change the Constitution, then the Constitution would change. Neither side, the SDP and HDZ had to agree, did not want a sincere change to the constitution. Each encamped on its own side and no one even had the will to talk excessively about changing the Constitution. And therefore, and for a very long time if this continues regardless of the other composition of the Assembly, it will hardly come under such conditions with such attitudes, with such a guard that there will be a change of constitution. And that will come, which is bad for the entire Croatian society, because here it is society, it is the life of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And clearly, what is very important is that the constitutionality check of the issues is at the very beginning of the referendum process. Because all of this other stuff is getting citizens to wear their noses. I repeat, when 500, 700 or 800 thousand signatures are collected then it was said there was no constitutional issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101540	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101541	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, I agree with you that there was no will when it came to the change of the Constitution and that there were different calculations about it. And that since the beginning, it has been turned into a political conflict in which we have partly been embarrassed in front of the world, and in part we have played our own national security and our own judicial sovereignty. And that's what we showed in the debate about the constitutional change. Not knowing that on the basis of our country's fundamental act, we must be consensual, not politicians, and not those like one of our colleagues said that the judiciary of another country is better than our own judiciary. I trust him because he knows it, but it represents our difficulty. And you're right there wasn't enough effort to achieve a consensus like it's not about anything other than that rot I already mentioned in the debates where to put which one of your own. To maintain the balance of the system in this way. Not according to the system of respecting values and laws, but according to the system, I will have mine, and you will have yours, and we will control ourselves. And as for my colleague Kosor and her debate, or her replica, that I agree with you, Article 3 should not be added. Everything in it writes nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101542	You know the rules, don't. You cannot respond to the replica of your colleague Kosor when you have not responded to the reply to the replica. You know the rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101543	I thought Mr. Vice President you didn't hear that, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101544	A new replica, what, why didn't I hear? ... Yeah, you thought you'd get away with it so I wouldn't listen to you. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I'm listening, careful. New replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, you disagree with this bill, but you will still support it in your first reading. That's how I understood your debate. But that's not why I answered, because I'm listening to the debate here again in this section about the local referendum and the local officials and the real people of God, so how do some MPs in this assembly feel about local officials? Really like some baukks, some who walk around in their offices, watch who does what, whether someone comes to the offices, if someone's going to do something and sign it. So if this bill said that the signatures for the state referendum could be collected and collected in the premises of local self-government for a double increase in the availability of public collection procedures for the referendum. I hear sentences here as yet to be said that it will be in the office of the mayor or mayor. So where does it say? It says here in the premises of the body of local self-government. I'm in favour of making it available to citizens anywhere in any place. As far as I'm concerned, even if activists and volunteers registered can collect those signatures by walking on the ground, nothing would be wrong, but I beg you not to treat local self-government like that, and to people who work there, it's not correct, it's not fair, it's not fair. If in the premises of the state administration it could work, it's proposed here, and this body of local self-government, so in the area of local self-government it would be something that I don't understand. Well, don't walk the chief and watch what anyone does in the room.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101546	The replica matches the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101547	Dear colleague Hrg, I would easily and simply agree with you if I had that kind of intention in my speech that you are now warning me to do, and I would be against it. Because it would be really unfair to treat people who have been chosen in the same way that we have chosen only for another function, for another type of government to spread our mistrust, to abuse power, to those who might be able to prevent an initiative or something like that. But you'll agree, there's a party political structure that can reach for this kind of instrument, there are lobbys that can submit the mayor or mayor to pressure, unfortunately, whether it's a word from financial so-called. investment reasons, whether it's a word for some third reasons. It is therefore necessary to make it easier for both the mayors and the mayors and to make it easier for citizens to avoid risks. And I agree with you, it would not be fair to mark them as a threat to the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101548	We're continuing to discuss clubs. In the name of the HNS Club, the respected Goran Beus Richembergh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101549	Dear Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues are before us in the first reading of the proposal for a referendum law, one of the most important laws has no doubt because it defines the conditions under which direct statements of citizens who in the last few years become a subject not only discussed but tested in practice. However, listening to some debates today in this high home, one who is uninformed, who doesn't really know what it's about would have gotten the impression completely wrong as if we've had a great legal solution so far that there's an arbitrary coalition in power now trying to corrupt and enter a whole series of institutes that would have been able to contain the space of civil liberties. On the other hand, there is an impression that there are no restrictions in the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, when there are no solutions so far but issued in the form of statements of the Constitutional Court. So then the debate looks more like a wish catalogue and an optional chat in many cases than a concentration on the actual text that in certain standards and gauges solves a whole series of important issues that have not been resolved so far. The formal debate on this law, i.e. its initial proposal, takes place since September last year. But we all know it lasts a year more. In a qualified form, whatever it was not about the concrete text but certainly it is about the problems that are covered here, and that is the debate that took place in the process of trying to change the Constitution. When one of the questions that we faced in this negotiation process was to define some new standards for holding the referendum, given that in the Constitution such as is not settled or doubts have been left. And then there was enough wisdom and wisdom to discuss it and to propose concrete solutions, but unfortunately there was no political will to shape it in the form of changes and additions to the Constitution. And we're just where we are. If there's four metres of silk, we can't fold or sew something that takes six. The provisions of the Constitution are clear, i.e. restrictive, provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court do not allow the implementation of a very important institute, which is the previous verification of constitutionality. And that's the fact, ignore that fact and keep repeating the thesis that nothing is good until we introduce that institute of previous checks, is actually a tending approach to this problem. Indeed, there is a good will of the promoter that under such conditions, it is clear that the referendum problem is not solved by law in a sufficiently good way, that the whole series of issues have not been resolved, so to approach the proposals and to refer it to the regular procedure and to allow the Croatian Assembly to say what it is thinking in 2 readings. It is as if this is a law being debated by an emergency procedure, and all we hear today is going to go down the water because the day after tomorrow they will vote on it. This is the law in the first reading and only in the second one will be able to intervene with the amendments and it is a legitimate question that some new opportunities are opened, that some alternative solutions should be given, but that is why so much drama should not go to open accusations that no less or less than the ruling coalition is burdened with attempts to combat the Constitution defined the right of citizens to freedom of opinion. Who's that coming from? I'm sure not from my party. The president of my party did not publicly say in May last year that when our party came to power that no one would be able to think publicly what it wanted but that they would be able to think about it at home. And that the public will be able to represent only the fundamental values of the Croatian state, which are the Homeland War, defenders, the political doctrine of Franjo Tudjman and the great work of Gojko Suška. That's not what the president of my party said, it's the party that predences to run the country. And if from that party come accusations on this other side that such proposals seek to reduce the right to free opinion, then it is an attempt to cloud the real attitudes, political actors both in this home and on the political scene. The fact is that there is a referendum, that the referendum law does not provide a whole series of necessary answers. And that was why for years many NGOs have been pushing through the public Croatian Parliament to finally open this issue and to pass a new Law on the referendum. And when you look a little bit better, a whole series of remarks that were based on the basic text of the old law then you'll see that 8 to 10 remarks are solved. Basic remarks on which new legal provisions were to be adopted. The terms of referendum promotion and vote-gathering are often marred in discussions on this law. It's not and it can't be the same. Only the collection of signatures can function as a referendum promotion. That's right. But the promotion is done in a whole series of ways. Nowhere here in this proposal of the law is it said that the initiator of the referendum cannot rent stands in public places according to decisions of the competent authorities on those stands to share information and talk to citizens, it can do so through all other forms of information and communication. So inform them about their initiative, inform them about what they really want to achieve with a specific referendum issue and, of course, inform them where they can be signed. Therefore, any referendum initiative can be legitimateized through the existing system of information and communication with citizens. And any unit of local self-government can, including, of course, sacral objects, or religious communities, meet any initiator and allow them to send their messages to whoever they want and to whom they want, but only signing on this proposal is defined in concrete places. We are not necessary for such a strict restriction, there is a possibility that it can be liberalized but certainly not in a way that will completely undo the fundamental idea. And that's that the procedure is prescribed, that it be to be said polite, that it is not secret, that it does not leave room for manipulation or abuse. And of course it suppresses what we've already heard and that's the monopoly of any organization, any institution. As such, many call for a solution to all problems regardless of local or national level. Those who have completely wiped out many institutions of direct citizens' decision today appear as the largest protectors of this institute. And the question is, who destroyed local self-government? Who has defined by the law that the citizens' statement at the citizens' assemblies is no longer worth anything, has no role at all, cannot be organised in the territory of local self-government but only in the area of a certain very strict area such as the street or the neighborhood and that it does not oblige anyone. Have we forgotten, in fact, that a whole series of possibilities and direct determination, or citizens' decision-making, were killed in the early 1990s by destroying local self-government, atomizing local self-government, somewhere in Gerrymandering, somewhere in the principle of atomization that served to fight neighbors, and made it impossible for a number of citizens to actually engage in decision-making processes. We'll forget about that. Partying has killed the will of a large number of citizens, to participate in such forms of a statement at all, to engage publicly, to pool resources, to solve fundamental problems, and to pressure authorities, in many, many situations. As far as the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats Club is concerned, we think that the new Law on Referendum, as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, brings a whole series of new, important and useful institutes that resolve a number of unclear issues from the earlier framework. We think that these are good solutions, some should still be discussed in another reading, we are open in this sense to consultation and joint agreement but we definitely believe that this is a step that will open a whole new era in one detail in the citizens' pleadings, which is the introduction of a system of e-citizens into technologically speaking decision-making processes. This is namely the first law that allows all those who are in the system of e-Citizens to participate in some procedure that has to do with citizens' statements. We hope that this is the first step and that through the same system can be decided both in the referendum and in the elections and that, in this example of collecting signatures for the referendum, it will be best to test the capacity of such a possible solution and speed up all the preconditions that tomorrow or the day after and the election we will go to the system of e-citizens, therefore online from home, without necessarily going to the polling stations, to the places where it is formally declared. We believe that this will directly affect the increase in those involved in the decision-making process of more citizens' response to the elections, as well as greater turnout in the referendum initiatives. Therefore, this law as the first to mention the system of e-citizens in any decision-making process is revolutionary. We hope that soon the conditions will be obtained to achieve the political will to change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in principle, in all those solutions that will provide a better and more efficient administration, a different territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, a new definition of regional self-government and administration, and thus allow the law on referendum to discuss some new institutes and different limits than is the case now, that is, what the constitutional text now requires as restrictions. And likewise, in parallel with this, we hope that political will will be obtained to change the Constitutional Court's constitutional law so that the Institute of Previous Constitutional Checks may also be introduced into the Law on Referendum. In this sense, the HNS club, Liberal Democrats, announces that it will support this proposal in its first reading, i.e. to support the proposal that the law goes into second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101550	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the esteemed Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, when I listen to you, it seems to me that we live in another world. You're saying this law will greatly improve the ability to collect signatures for referendum initiatives. You say on behalf of the party club that your party is always to allow citizens to plead. I will remind you that your party worked intensively on the anticampage when the signatures for the preferential vote were collected, not to speak for marriage, the community of men and women, which was then happening. And yet enough signatures have been collected. And then it wasn't enough for you to work counters all the time, but after that, together with your coalition partners, you made it impossible to hold a referendum by lurking with the number of voters in the Republic of Croatia and categories of voters and what 10% it is. You also said that the citizens will be informed at the stands and will then be instructed to go 50, 60, 100 km to sign, those who do not have the possibility of e-signature, to go sign into the offices of the state administration. Well, I don't see any reason if the booths are out there, if you're already talking to people, which is the problem, why aren't there and the lists people are going to sign immediately. Why are we harassing citizens? You know the answer as well as I do, because you're afraid of citizens' opinions, you're afraid of what the citizens will say and you want to prevent a referendum and collect signatures for referendum initiatives. That's your reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101552	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101553	My colleague Hrg, it seems to me that you have broken pots, if not more than that. To accuse HNS of carrying out an anti-campion preferential vote, and on the other hand, you have the fact that the campaign was not supported by your main coalition partner, therefore HDZ, means that you are actually telling your coalition partners something very ugly, but give them a direct conversation. HNS did not lead any anti-camping activities, HNS supported this initiative in July last year over 7 MPs of this House, and HSS, through you, indicated that it was not to introduce a preferential vote. Because if you'd stayed for it, you'd have voted anyway, but you left the assembly and you were against that solution. ... /The noise in the hall./... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101554	I pray peace in the assembly. Please, peace. If you are not comfortable with what has been said, still listen to it in silence. Davorin's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101555	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Beus, I ask you, no matter what good intentions you have, don't be a spokesman for the HDZ, let us try to interpret ourselves to the people we talked about. But what's important is that you said in your statement that my party's president was not talking about how to express his own political opinion or position. Well, then you say in the law, it doesn't say anywhere that organizers can't rent booths on which to promote a referendum possible because you've heard some fear that she's raised herself here in the Parliament and you're defending what's not to be defended. We didn't talk about what's not in the law, and that's where you're wrong. We talked about what the law says, and what it says in the law that you defend is limiting the freedom of Croatian voters to go to the referendums in the easiest way possible and to express their opinion as easily as possible and without any obstacles. While you were gone, we illustrated what math means in calculating the number of votes, and what it doesn't say is completely irrelevant. What matters is what the law says.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101556	The replica matches Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101557	Dear colleague Mlakar, I was there when you spoke of this mathematics, but you don't see us as small as the big picture. Sometimes it's very important that it doesn't say in the law, because the less the law says, the closer the law to the basic principle, the liberal principle that what is not forbidden is allowed. So we're in favour of a liberal state that's going to get involved as little as possible, and then we prefer laws that don't write a number of restrictions, but these restrictions are then as little as possible. In this particular case, you can interpret it as a restriction, but the promoter made it clear to you that according to all the data available so far, according to the reports of the drivers of the referendum initiatives, none has been implemented in as many places as this law allows and not in so many settlements as this solution actually allows. And that I'm not talking about e-citizens at all. This will also enable the person with disabilities living in the most isolated part of our country, who can access this initiative without any problem if he wants to, and it was not possible until yesterday, because such persons could not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101558	The last replica, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101559	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Richembergh, in your discussion, you commended the bill and said that in today's discussions, the uninformed could get a completely wrong impression because you think the law is very good. You said the law could be fixed in a second reading. What does that mean? That in the current discussions everyone who was and critically referred to certain bad solutions in the law shouldn't talk about it? I think yes, yes, that's exactly the point of that, and it's to fix the law until the second reading. But I'm afraid this bill can't be fixed until the second reading, because what you're saying is that citizens can be informed at booths and that referendum promoters can inform citizens and then take them by hand and take them to the state office to sign there. That's the point of this whole story. While today's debate is clearly shown in the election run, signatures can be collected at the stands, they can also be collected in front of religious facilities, they can be collected anywhere. But here's the thing about the referendum, then it can't be done. In your opinion, it's good, the state administration, so probably within that you should have proposed, and in the law, that those who are away from the headquarters of the state administration should be costing them, legislators, to eventually come to that place and cast their vote on whether they were for the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101560	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101561	Dear fellow Tušek, therefore the impression, Tušak, could have gotten the wrong impression throughout a series of discussions that the existing referendum law that is in force is better than what is being passed here. It's me. So if you didn't listen selectively then you'd hear it so correctly. So it's not true that the existing referendum law isn't good. For years, it has been warned that it has not solved the fundamental problems of the entire referendum process and is required to bring a new one. In that sense, this law really brings a whole series of institutes that are new and that are much better than what we have so far. Of course, any debate if it is constructive and concrete can help to see that a single solution that is in the proposal is not good enough and that can be better. Well, that's a healthy logic. I have absolutely nothing to add here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101562	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101563	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today someone said in the debate that this bill is a step forward, so then I would say picturesquely, if the foot is in a Turkish step forward, then this is really a step forward because someone flew a meter away but we stayed on the same. We were also taught at the Law School that an insufficient grade is the same. Someone gets to five, somebody gets two, but the difference is one is not enough, and it's two enough, so it's still not talking. True, much effort has been spent on these discussions, some of which I have personally participated. When so many constitutional changes were mentioned today, the whole story was that the HDSSB was responsible for giving up constitutional changes. It's not true, it's given up for other reasons. It was about the Law on Judicial Cooperation with EU Member States that we did not want to participate in, and in the area of matter of the referendum we agreed that rules should be facilitated, that citizens should be made easier and the initiative should be launched, easier coming to the possibility of a referendum really being held if those minimum legal conditions are met and that someone has given up because of the referendum it is really not true and it is throwing the fog in the eyes of the Croatian public. If someone had said that an existing rule of law solution was better said not by someone than it was said on a round table a few days ago by one of the organisers of the referendum initiative on preventing the monetization of highways, Mr. Mijat Stanic said it on that round table that what exists is better than what is proposed. Also today, so many constitutional and legal experts mentioned, it is not true that they have all agreed with this bill because many have said that this is a prevention of a referendum at all and some have even recommended to the gathered initiators of the previous referendums that they all join together, there were 17 of them, and that a referendum should be called on whether the signatures for the referendum are being collected in places that are allowed for public gathering and not in the offices of the state administration. So the waist also gave an insufficient assessment, at least in one section that thinks that the referendum should really be what it should be. So it's dealing with constitutional and legal experts and cutting down statements from some that it's not right to whom it suits, and it's not fair. If we are truly willing to give the people, and the people of the decision should be outside of every political elite, because to remind ourselves we are MPs and Parliament representative body of the citizens of the Republic, we are elected on election lists, but it is not true that we are the only ones who need to decide on everything because sometimes I did not agree with the questions asked and the way these issues are being asked, but we have fought for this country as it is today and for this the greatest democratic right, and that is that the will of the Croatian people and all the citizens of the Republic should be outside of every political elite. That's why it got stuck here on this referendum issue because someone made fun of the consensus today, someone said it was so stupid to ask for a consensus in the House, and it's not stupid at all, but it's stupid when someone says it so stupidly. Because how you're going to protect national interests, respect the will of those we're here for if we don't hear what they want. I personally think that so far the initiatives have been so intensely annoying that someone has decided to prevent it in every way possible, and that is why this legislative proposal is ahead of us. Thank God, and I'm glad, it's the only light point of this whole story today, which is the first reading, which has yet to be fixed. Some professors of constitutional law and some associations, as well as politicians and political parties, have asked for the legislative proposal to be withdrawn and to try to talk in a reasonable way, which is that the issue can and should only be resolved by intervention in the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. If there is not enough will and two-thirds majority in this assembly, if there is no goodwill from the government of the Republic of Croatia and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic who had his fingers in those constitutional changes, which is why we gave up then we should wait for another majority, some other will of the Croatian people and voters, so someone else decides. Because the Croatian state did not fail because of the existing Law on Referendum, it failed because of its incompetent policies and because of the situation we are in today. If we think a little bit better about why there was an increase in the number of initiatives for the referendum, some of these initiatives were the intervention of citizens and groups of citizens due to poor government moves and in response to those moves that the citizens did not take. So 530 and a few thousand signatures of an initiative to ban the monetisation of Croatian highways should not be ignored. Nor should the will of those who have signed 380 thousand signatures for a referendum which, according to some opinions, either by the Constitutional Court, or by the Ministry of Administration, have fulfilled a sufficient number of signatures. But that doesn't even matter, 380 thousand citizens signed it. And the current SDP coalition with its partners came to power with 900 and a few thousand votes. So I personally wouldn't allow any of our citizens to ignore any of the issues. We need to be serious here. I don't want to insult my fellow lawyers with whom we worked together in various legal and judicial committees that they wrote something they shouldn't have written. I respect a different opinion. But the truth is, this bill of law, which I hope you'll intervene as soon as possible, wanted to do something and nothing was done. If this is a step forward, what's a step back? In our view, it is not at all questionable that constitutional law, the category of the Croatian Constitution as the highest legal act in the state, the Constitutional Court should have the elements that we propose that the Constitutional Court should therefore include itself before collecting signatures at the stage when the initiative appears to be moving into a question which is being raised before Croatian citizens and voters. No one should mind the Constitutional Court being involved in this pre-phase. The costs would be avoided, various policy games would be avoided, whether or not something should be a question and we would be in charge of those who are in charge of guarding the Croatian Constitution, which is the Constitutional Court. It should protect the Constitution, and this intervention in Article 3 of this Law where a provision which is interpreted differently from the Constitution should not be here. Because no law is above the Croatian Constitution. It is a controversial provision regarding the place of gathering of the referendum initiative in the offices of the state administration. It's not true that there are 330 government offices, it's not true that they're equally available to everyone and it's not true that it's better than what we've had so far. It is true, let it be the Office of State Administration, and let there be places where public gathering is allowed. May there be various Internet solutions, applications that will be available to citizens who are informational written and where there is availability... that it is possible to organise this with the restriction and control that it must be controlled. Let it all be, but let this be at the public gathering because it's fair. It's not equal to all available. I'm not going back to Slavonia on purpose now, which someone mentioned today, but that's true. It's life, and it's true that it's not equal to being available to everyone, and it's not that distance that people can walk. We limit their fundamental rights to the citizens here. I am one of those who advocates that the referendum should be made easier and that any political majority should be corrected if the conditions for Croatian citizens to ask us to. Citizens were not satisfied with any government's moves and the situation in which the country was found, they have the right to ask for it to change. And I don't agree with those who give a deadline for a local referendum for two years or a year, for a state referendum different. The referendum will, if the referendum succeeds, be changed in accordance with the rules of European rights and the Venice Commission and other fundamental international documents only in the referendum. No majority should be allowed to change the citizens' will in a referendum during a time period of four years. These restrictions are wrong, and even in some other issues, it should be considered whether it is fair for so many citizens to go to the polls, sign initiatives and vote in the referendum so that it is not respected later as a will. These are instruments that I think are avoiding will. That's what we need to think about. Is 30 days better than the current 15 days, so let's say it is, but it's done if we compare the country of Switzerland which has different models of the referendum than Croatia but 100 thousand signatures can be collected for 18 months, and we give 30 days for some 400 thousand signatures less or more. We should not have allowed ourselves as a state to interpret the election for the president that he had 3.8 million voters enrolled in the voter lists, and then 10% of 380 thousand, and those 380 thousand for the referendum on preferential voting were not accepted because of the insufficient number of signatures. We cannot allow the Ministry of Administration to interpret one thing, that the Constitutional Court interprets the other and that in the end today we cannot say with certainty how many signatures it really takes, what is 10% of the total number of voters listed in the list of voters? I think this deadline in Article 14 should be extended to 60 days if we can't agree on more. As far as other issues are concerned, and above all that the decision's obligation in the referendum requires a positive position of one-third of voters enrolled in the list of local and regional self-government voters when it comes to local referendums, this would mean that for the City of Zagreb, it would be about to be gathered for the 74 thousand signatures initiative, and somewhere around 223 thousand should be voted for. I don't know how it's possible to achieve this, if that's a rule that will ever be able to organise such a referendum. Just to compare that the mayor of Zagreb was elected with 170 thousand votes in the elections, in direct elections for the mayor of Zagreb. So these are some of the questions that I may have just repeated to you with my colleagues who have discussed before, there is also a question of funding the referendum initiative from the time it starts until it ends, there is also a question of how people who work in state administrations in their working hours from 8 to 4 will do their job for which they are in charge and work on signing issues, there is a question of extended working time, what does one who works up to 4 want to sign a referendum initiative and the Office of State Administration no longer works? There are a variety of issues that we need to get back to where we started, and the start is the conversation. I don't think you're one, and I'm saying it well-meaningly, the political majority shouldn't allow this luxury. Because to remember except for all of us who are talking here today, we also comment on Croatian citizens who are interested in these issues being monitored and each assessment is evaluated and every move is assessed on that side. I am sure that preventing the referendum initiative and this issue of highways and the issue of parallel collection of signatures that have already been collected and the procedure which takes a long time for the referendum to be launched and i.e. legal void. But what I'm more interested in is the will of Croatian citizens who are thinking about what they're going to do to a government that does something that's the opposite of what 530 thousand citizens of valid signatures signed. It's something to think about one who suggests such a solution. I'll go back to the beginning of my debate on behalf of the club, if I consider this a step forward then it's a step forward because you jumped a meter further, and in fact you stayed on the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101564	On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS will speak to the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Yeah, well, when we get to the line this late, then it seems like everything's mostly said, but here's some of the key things that seem important to me, once again pointed out. So, of course, this is the law in the first reading, I propose to the Committee on the Constitution, not only to the President of the Constitution Committee, but to the Committee on the Constitution as a whole to really carefully examine everything we have said and everything we have proposed and all that we have criticised on good faith, but with one fundamental finding what is necessary and when and if this Law on the referendum is adopted and all the conditions for calling the referendum will not solve any particularly important issues. We can only solve this by amending the Republic of Croatia. So it's one job that's waiting for us and no one can tell if it's going to happen or when it's going to happen. And equally important, this has already been discussed by amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Why this law? Because I agree with all of you who spoke in favour of the previous review of the constitutionality of the referendum issue. So if we were to install it as a possibility, there were such proposals at the time when we discussed amendments to the Constitution, so if after that, different modes could be developed. For example, a number of signatures collected after the Constitutional Court's assessment has been sought. We would, for example, avoid any discomfort and discomfort, and very difficult words and events that were related to the amendment, i.e. the collection of signatures for the referendum on the amendment of the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. You all certainly still remember when the Constitutional Court made a final decision after the Assembly sent a request for an assessment of the issue to the Constitutional Court and when the Constitutional Court adopted a acquis and when the Constitutional Court said that this referendum issue was not in line with the Constitution and that the referendum could not be called, therefore, because the referendum could not be amended by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities was absolutely more dissatisfied than satisfied. And they were, they were going down hard words both according to the Constitutional Court and its decision and, of course, the government, the Parliament and so on. All of this would have been avoided if we could, if there had been a mechanism to send the issue to the constitutional assessment before. And of course the most important thing I think would be to avoid many obstacles in Croatian politics, in Croatian society and many additional divisions that have brought absolutely nothing good. So here are the fundamental questions we still have, and if this law is passed and if all our remarks are accepted, we won't solve it and that's not good. There are good and bad solutions in this bill. One of the good ones is that it moves, or expands, extends the time to collect signatures, so from 15 to 30 days, it might have been more but here's one of the good proposals. However, I do not think it is a good decision, and therefore I suggest that, until the second reading, it should be discussed once again on the Committee on the Constitution in some extended composition, which will be attended by representatives of all clubs, so those who are not members of the Committee on the Constitution, the restriction on the collection of signatures in the offices of the state administration is, in some ways, by my interpretation and by the opposite of the Constitution and by some provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and Article 14 which says that we are all equal before the law. Because it is not this model of going to state administration offices and giving signatures there, it will not be possible and accessible in the same way because it will require both travel and transport. It will be very restrictive for people with disabilities living alone who do not have the possibility of transport. However, of course, given working hours because many employees will not be able to do so at work. The question is, then, how to extend any working time in the offices of the state administration to be able to collect signatures, until when it would be, who would follow these possibly overtime hours, is this about employees who are state employees or at local level. So it opens up a series of additional issues but also limits constitutional rights and all employees. So all those on whose behalf the union of civil servants and local officials and tenants sent a letter to all of us. Because it is quite logical that their constitutional right of free expression can be in some way limited if they are under the supervision of their superiors and if and of course it is particularly important at local level. Let's say the signatures for a referendum are collected for the shift of the local leader, any of them. Of course, those who are employed in that body are not and cannot care whether their signature is against or, of course, depends on how much it is interpreted in a way that, in some foreseeable time, will lead to their questions and questions about their existence. On-line, I think there's a lot of talk here about how it's absolutely accessible to everyone and more or less we all have or have smart phones, it's not true. And I know some young people who don't use their phones at all and don't have the opportunity to give their signature, for example. And if I don't talk about people who never had a cell phone in their hand or have any Internet access at all, here's what I'm going to do. So the Constitution and constitutional provisions on equality don't actually recognize it. So if a signing is organised for a referendum, they have to make it possible for everyone and everyone. I therefore propose to the Committee on the Constitution that one more consideration be given to that provision. Of course, there are good ones, and there are good sides, but I think that when they apply to such important decisions, you should always see what they weigh. In this case, it seems to me that this debate has also shown that there are arguments against such a decision. With that and when it has been collected in different places so far, there are any places that are completely inappropriate. It was, of course, said here that they were offended by some who had signed, and some who had been signed for and against, and those who did not, or those who had signed and those who did not want to sign, in all these referendum initiatives so far. As far as the restrictions are concerned, I agree that we can also specify in this law what these are restrictions for referendum initiatives. That's what I was already talking about, so that's Articles 1, 3 and 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in particular Article 3 which speaks of the greatest constitutional values and is certain that, in this context, by relying on the decision of the Constitutional Court of December, or November 2013, which clearly states that the founder of the Constitution, of course, has the right to limit certain questions which may or may wish to be questioned in the referendum. In fact, we must not forget that the Croatian Parliament, that the Croatian Parliament is the most representative body, that in some segments no referendum initiative can be the one that could be done by the Croatian Parliament, the decisions of the Croatian Parliament in which the government is elected, in which the government is to be annulled. It would not be good, it has been mentioned many times, a multitude of referendum initiatives and then a decision of the Constitutional Court. It would not be good for the referendums to be led by the state, that economic policy should be tailored in referendums, and, of course, the Constitutional Court has the right to do so and may, as the Constitutional Law permits, arbitration and that all our decisions ultimately be confirmed or annulled in the Constitutional Court or in the referendum. That is why this proposal on the fact that within 2 years the decision taken in the referendum cannot be changed in a good way. There is an initiative, as you have probably seen from NGOs, that this period extends to 4 years, so how much is the mandate of a government or calls on the Croatian Parliament. I'm not sure that's a good thing. You might consider a shorter period, but that's all there is to debate. And eventually funding. It seems to me that the largest in this law that is limited to possibilities, so it cannot change constitutional provisions on the number of votes needed in the referendum itself as the most important neural point but funding can. This law can regulate what has proved to be disputable in all the signatures that have been collected so far because someone has always asked a question and who has paid for it. This law gives us a chance to regulate it, and it's not enough to write it just to regulate it by a special law. If so, if the proposer believes that this law cannot be regulated, then it could have been parallelly regulated by a new law that would have talked about financing and that we would have a parallel discussion because the experience has shown that when we were in some laws and in some provisions, some decisions would have made that something that was important by some other law that would be subsequently passed, that it was largely not adopted. So we did not respect the Constitutional Court's decision as a legislative body, we recently discussed it, that we must adopt a new Law on Election Units. Remember, it is the provision of the Constitutional Court of 2010 and here we will go to new parliamentary elections and we have failed to agree on this. So that one day in the spring at three, it will be settled in another law regarding the financing of referendum initiatives that does not seem to be comforting. And at the very end of this formula for calling a local referendum, it's very complicated for colleagues and colleagues. I think that provision must be much simpler, when you read this article that talks about how and how it will be decided, I don't think Professor Balthazar could solve it properly either. In any case, it is good that the law goes to another reading, we will have more time to discuss it, and therefore I propose to the chairman of the Constitution Committee that he actually make one catalog of all the objections made in this debate, and that at the session of the Committee, very quickly, because the session of the Committee on the Constitution does not have to be done only when the final draft of the law is put forward, so that it is a mountainous speedy session that he will decide on than we can discuss two and three times before. So that all relevant remarks that go towards this law are that this law improves a situation that is not good are really regulated, and with a desire and hope that one day, however, it and only that provision of the Constitution will change. And I don't think that those of us who decided then, and that's what I'm going to end up with, which is how we sort of facilitated the referendum frameworks for a referendum to join the European Union, that we have made a mistake. It was a situation where many years of efforts by generations of Croatian people, Croatian politicians installed their best work and best knowledge and of course there was really a consensus that the decision to enter Croatia into the European Union cannot be compromised in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101566	Thank you. The chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Peja Grbin, is reporting for your replica. Let's hear what he has to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101567	Thank you. I don't think it's necessary. This is about only one piece of information. The law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political promotion is in the process. It's being handled in parallel with this law. A consultation with the interested public was concluded in 1.12.2014. On the Internet, you can find all the comments given in this consultation, and you can find all the comments that have been accepted or are not accepted on that law, and very nearly in the procedure, we can expect the text of the law itself, and he could not go before even starting to discuss the referendum law because the most important amendment is that in one place, as rules for the financing of all other campaigns, the rules governing the financing of the referendum campaign. And as for the Constitution Committee itself, as well as every time the Constitutional Committee has been a proposer, between the first and second readings, we will unite all objections, suggestions, not only those that are here today but also those sent by the Government. We will take into account, of course, the decision of the Constitutional Court of December 2014 which was made after this proposal took place in the procedure so that we could not install it here. And we're going to try to get a proposal that will unite, of course not everything that's been said here today because it's not possible because a whole series of contradictory proposals have been made, but at least one big part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101568	The answer to the respected Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101569	Thank you very much. So thank you for this information about information, but I still suggest that apart from this one article that talks about funding, which is formulated in one single sentence, we try to get it done. So at least some principled draft in this Law on the financing of political, or referendum initiatives can be forgiven and it can be seen to be of course the direction in which it will move because it is the right opportunity. When we pass the law now, then it is a real opportunity to say something in more detail about how funding must be done and very clearly and transparently.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101570	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the DC, New Wave and the National Reformist Party, a respected Vesna Skare-Ozbolt appeared. She's gone. The club loses its right to debate. In the name of the HSU Club, dear Maria Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101571	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Party of Retired In some ways, I would say concern about certain provisions of the proposal for a referendum law which provides for the signatures for a referendum initiative to be collected in the offices of the state administration, and through the system of e-citizens, which is today and most debated in this House. As the only parliamentary retirement party in Croatia, we consider it important to meet colleagues and fellow MPs with difficulties that the implementation of this law in practice would mean for our older citizens who make up almost a third of the electoral bodies in the country and it is certainly not negligible. I believe that you will all agree with me, that they deserve our attention when we pass this law, especially when we hold on to the pension Corps very much before the elections and how they mean a lot to us all. In fact, the practice of collecting signatures on public surfaces so far meant that we must recognise the freedom of speech and the expression of the political will of citizens who were able to easily refer to the activists of a particular referendum initiative to give their support to the desired initiative without feeling watched and without coming to official institutions such as public administration offices, and were able to do so at the time that was most appropriate to them. Of course, there has been a particular shortage in the smaller environments where in quite one I would say aggressively approached citizens by activists of the initiators most often members of interested political parties, and thus they violated a discreet right to express their will, which suggests that there is no perfect solution. The proposed way of collecting signatures for the referendum initiative is we think it is discriminatory for citizens of older age for just a few reasons. First of all, going to the offices of the state administration for many citizens will be one thing I would say is an uneasy experience because it creates the impression that it is an extremely simplified observation by the institutions, and then we know who signed it, who is not and of course an assessment of the civil likeness or incompatibility to the said key. Also, going to the Offices of State Administration assumes extremely well-informed and highly motivated citizens that our pensioners are often not primarily due to very difficult living conditions and attention focussed on issues related to existence. State administration offices are often difficult to reach older and harder for mobile persons as well as disabled persons, and then with citizens who rarely live 50 kilometers and still from the competent Offices of State Administration, which further creates an obstacle to the ability to declare their will and other citizens in rural areas, and is demoted at the very beginning of involvement in the political process. Because don't forget that a pensioner with 1200 kuna monthly incomes can give 80 to 100 kunas for transport to go to the Office of State Administration to give his signature, because it's not important for him at that point, but it's important that 80 to 100 kuna. Often, even during the elections, we meet with discriminatory behaviour and members of the electoral committee who go to the homes of old and difficult mobile persons not rarely and on the initiative of themselves, but also of certain political parties that act on them suggestively. Is it not our task as a consolidated democracy that we all make sure that our citizens have the ability to express their political will and thus use the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to guarantee the right to vote without having to seek it out or as the only under quotes "help" have to accept the one that comes from interested emissaries no matter what political options they are. Furthermore, the system of e-Citizens as technological progress in the voting sphere is certainly welcome, but in this we cannot call the transitional period unable and must not be one of the only two solutions offered to this problem. Citizens of older age without the intention of hurting anyone because someone today has already said that citizens of older age are offended, but it is simply a fact. Often, they have no experience in using modern information aids such as computers, tablets, or smartphones. Furthermore, the media presented how elderly voters can turn to younger family members, therefore to their children, grandchildren, neighbors, etc., so that they can guide them and educate them on how to sign. We believe that such advice is dangerous for the guaranteed right of secrecy of the vote, thus creating conditions for further manipulation of voters or votes. The Croatian party considers it necessary to ensure that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the same opportunity to participate in the democratic process of collecting signatures for any of the referendum initiatives regardless of the level of information education. In addition, elderly and disabled persons must be made as easy as possible to participate in the democratic process as possible, and in the light of the resolution of this problem, we suggest that they may be set up, to consider a single free phone number at the level of the Republic of Croatia, which could then be used by interested citizens who, due to any circumstances, could not come to the place where the signatures are collected. So the teams would be formed, and so should the Office of State Administration, go out in the field personally and come to people who have been prevented from coming on their own, and sign their signature to support an initiative, which would make it possible for individuals to end and discrimination on the basis of age or disability, and allow for the full participation of all citizens in the democratic process. In this regard, it would be good to consider this as a proposal and the possibility of installing a mobile counter modeled by the Ministry of the Interior which has shown that you know very useful and very good, which would in particular facilitate the collection of signatures in small areas and rural areas and such mobile tents could also work in extended time to avoid overlapping that working time of the government body with the working hours of most employees. Given that the referendum is the most important form of democratic declaration by citizens today, which we have often mentioned and called for because of this fact, we cannot help but draw attention to the population we represent because it needs to be helped to achieve its right to participate in the development of democracy. We must therefore carefully elaborate on the proposal through the discussion of all participants to consider the best proposals and suggestions, to draw out the best solutions, and thus contribute to the development of democracy in our society. The HSU club hopes to consider all well-intentioned suggestions and suggestions until the second reading, and all in the interest of the well-being of not only of the pensioners but of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101572	Thank you. Before we move on to replicas, I have one suggestion from the clubs to unite the debate on the next two agenda points. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Then we'll have a united discussion, and now we move on to replicas. First Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues in principle agree with your debate, although some things have moved me to the replica, which you have said about the denial of our citizens, a certain part of the citizens, you have primarily concentrated on pensioners who, unfortunately, the way to the Office of State Administration can represent a significant cost. It puts them in a subordinate position without further ado. But I think that's what my colleague Grbin was saying as a proposer, some of our citizens have already been in a depreciated position. I think he mentioned the town of Ozalj where no signatures were collected. So someone from a small place near Ozli if he wanted to sign or wanted to have to go to Karlovac. So that's where you've now suggested a whole series of measures, from phone numbers, mobile teams. So that's all we can think about, but in some implementing part, I'm not sure, and probably the proposer will also be able to show himself about whether that place is in the law as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101574	New replica, Tomislav Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101575	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Ilic, very briefly, so that there is no misunderstanding, you mentioned that when giving support to the signatures in the E-Citizen system is actually a breach of secrecy. Look, this isn't about secrecy, so it's not about voting on a referendum, it's about signing support anyway. Because if you sign somewhere in public, any public place, then it's known that you signed it. In any case, the variant of e-citizens should be incorporated into the law, because it is a good variant. The law must be encouraged because this system will be better for all of us as soon as possible. And the manipulation is careful and so far it's been, someone mentioned it today where people feel really uncomfortable if someone calls them out, you go out of the church and now everybody signs and you don't, you have your own attitude that you don't want, you feel uncomfortable. So the key word is motivation. Whoever wants to, and when I say some grandmother, I want to sign this, and then the granddaughter says either daughter or someone says here's what Grandma can do, and that's how you do it, because that's definitely not what Grandma's gonna know. I agree with you, but it's still a key question of motivation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101576	The reply to the replica of the esteemed Maria Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101577	Dear colleague, I didn't say that the system is e-citizens of possible manipulation, not only did I simply say that almost a million people may be 1% or 2% are all used by computers, and that's the problem you know. And for manipulation it is possible in all possible ways if someone wants it and if it is organised within the initiator of the signing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101578	The last replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101579	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, and you rightly point to the problem of old, powerless, left alone, people living alone, so in this combination is old, alone, left behind and often forgotten in rural areas, I don't think it's the same in the big city and rural environment. In the end, all those people you talked about are not in the same position if they need to get to the barn that is at the end of the village or which is in the social home, or which is in the post office or near the bakery where they go, or if it's in some office that's a few miles away. And if they have no one to help them, then of course they can't be even with those who can. And on the other hand, about this online signing. I agree with you, indeed one respectable number of people, and if you knew, and if you knew, and if there was a possibility you wouldn't because you had a certain mistrust. But it's just like that when he walks into that office where he always thinks someone's controlling him. You mentioned, this is also a great idea, this about mobile counters. However, someone should pay for it. And now we're coming up with an absurd situation that citizens' initiatives actually need to be financed by the state in a narrow and broad sense, and then it's also not in line with what's called the citizens' initiative. Those who have an initiative must and way to organize. And certainly this is obviously the most sensitive place in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101580	The reply to the replica of the esteemed Maria Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101581	Dear MPs, I'm glad we agree almost 100% on this because we're obviously kind of sensitive to those older ones. In the end, I'm here, representing this Corps, or the third-age population. Of course, just before, Mr. Sagar suggested that I say that these are the people who have been excluded. So a lot of them out of that 1 million and 200, 1 million and 500 as many as there are, a lot of them are almost shut off from that system. Therefore, mechanisms that should be considered and introduced into this law should certainly enable all these people to cast their votes and engage in a democratic process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101582	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101583	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here we are today talking about the Law of Referendum, it's obviously been created for a few months. We heard the opening of what the president of the Assembly Committee said about it. We don't know what the government thinks, what the Department of Administration thinks. They're kind of avoided in these stories. We heard and saw how the story of the law ended. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I hope it won't be similar to this referendum law because here's the Parliament doing something, the government obviously nothing. And what did we get? We received as news the collection of signatures in the Offices of State Administration, the collection of signatures online via e-Citizens' programme, some news for local referendums, strange figures in the decimals that are collected to the number of residents, instead of most of the total number to make the referendum a success is offered most of the participants and one more news against the referendum board, something comes to me like that anti-protest we attended, which we watched on Saturday. I think the results of this law will be similar because how else does that explain it? In an explanation of his colleagues, he made it very clear that he was calling for other countries and their experiences and then determined if they were democratic then we are also very democratic here, so let's see how they have it. What experiences they have for a referendum. Slovenia has 2 million inhabitants, 40,000 signatures in 30 days, Croatia 4 million and 284 thousand residents, 373 thousand signatures, so far 15 days, now it extends to 30 days, Switzerland 7 million and 400 thousand inhabitants, 50,000 signatures in 90 days, Hungary 9 million and 800 thousand residents, 200 thousand signatures within 120 days. So we've made a strong democratic step because we're, say, twice as small as Hungary that has twice as many signatures and four times as long a time limit for the same to be collected. And when you compare this data, you simply find that someone is afraid of the people. Who is he who fears the people? The one who proposes this, the Kukuriku Vlad, the Kukuriku coalition. Why? Because the people are ready to react to all their policies that they've implemented in four years. Where's the mistake? They consider the referendum to be a matter of place, number and mathematics. Places, numbers and mathematics. I think it's completely wrong because instead of fixing the policy, to notice that the people, to notice the people, to work for the people, to ensure people's decent lives, they change the law to convince themselves that everything is fine with them, that they think modern and advanced. In what way? Here again, as with the Election Law, it all depends on one side that, when it pushes all its sides, reaches several percentages and then dictates our pace, the rules, and our chairman of the Assembly Committee runs together this honorable, disgraceful circle as the chairman of the Assembly Committee on the Constitution. Because I don't understand why something's going on for months, it's been talking about it for months, it's about groups, it's about consensus, and then we come here with some stories, everyone says what they say. I've noticed from this that I don't know the SDP club for, the HNS Club for, some have taken note of the discomfort, some are highly opposed and for months it's been working and working and we always have like the Election Law several proposals. What is the purpose of this assembly committee besides meeting and not agreeing on a quality legal proposal that we can all agree on? What's this, what's this way of working where there's absolutely no idea what we're gonna do about something in this House? And we say we work for people, for people. Not everyone in the people is for the SDP, not the HNS, not the HDZ. Well, there are different people there, and they vote differently, so why don't we give them a normal legal framework to make their wishes come true, our thoughts, but we keep putting some rules in place because we just don't know what to do next? This, once upon a time, seems to me to be at Mr. Grbin's private party and colleagues from coalition parties, not one of the most important committees of the Croatian Parliament. It's really like that in mine. What will future referendums look like under this law? I don't think so? Why? There just won't be any. Why won't there be any? Because we narrow down rights to citizens and open wide spaces to the government. We just follow the rules because it's different. Here's an example, let's say that I'm an organizer of a non-Knowing association, an initiative, I disagree with a particular proposal or a government decision or a law that wants to propose, which is proposed by the authorities, I'm going to launch an initiative on the oxy issue. What's next? I'm forming a question. So what now? I'm holding a public presentation, a press conference. I've been talking all day on TV about it, on the radio, and I'm proposing in the paper. What's next for me? I'll get the materials ready. Okay, I'll print out all the flyers. I'll find the booths. And? Let's move on. What's the next procedure? I'll leave it all to who? The states. All right, state administration. Great. I'm giving them everything in my hands and I'm gonna stand by the booth and when someone comes to me, he's interested, I'm telling him Mr. Go to the Office of State Administration. You can imagine what he'll tell me. I'm very interested, I want to give you a signature, but it's a little far, it's costing me something, so come on, sir, and I'll get mine, I'll move on. Because how else to interpret it. I mean, who thought of it, I don't know why, which is why we need it when it worked so far. Then you offer them that you can also on-line, you can nicely, tap into that program of e-citizens and you sign nicely. Never heard of it, let's go along with it, never heard of it. The question is, what does it have to do with information literacy, what does it have to do with information equipment, but here's a possibility for you to sign it nicely and send it on. Can this system collapse? You got it. Let's say the initiative started, the server went down, so we'll fix it when the 30-day legal deadline expires. Possibly, what, if the government isn't interested in that question that bothers me. Who says he can't crash? It's possible to crash the server from a massive rush. Yeah, it's called, yeah, hacking. Afterwards, you conclude that someone in an imperfect state played with a perfect solution. These really are the perfect solutions for our imperfect state because they assume that the office of state administration is in every place, village, municipality, city and that there are almost every step of the way because you have that possibility. Then he assumes that all citizens are always interested in every referendum. So as many of us as there are, we're all interested. And we're all gonna either sign up or we're not gonna sign up, but we are, here's a possibility. Yes, then they are, then the assumption is that everyone is informational written and every day hangs on the portals, especially this portal by e-citizens. I've been trying to find him, it's hard to find him, but here's what we assume is the perfect solution, and he'll be perfected so much that he'll look like an ad on every portal. And as soon as the referendum starts, here we are, signing. Then it assumes that Silba, Olib and Strunja islands are immediately in the front row to the state administration's office. Because if someone from those islands wants to sign it, it's your islands in the Zadar Archipelago. Let's just say from Premuda to Zadar it takes a day to find a state administration office, have a personal one, let God forget it, then nothing, but you have something to do in the city of Zadar and a reason to travel. Then we found that churches, markets and booths were a lag behind and a non-democratic solution. The environment and that this is the best government in history in three years in such an environment has earned five referendums. So the worst solution to five referendums under the most difficult conditions and with a catastrophic law. Unbelievable. It doesn't quite make sense. Then we offer a better solution. Let's say we have a strategic investment law that's perfect and didn't give birth to any strategic investment, but we don't change it because it doesn't matter to people or people, there are countries that they can move to. In the end, I will conclude very simply, difficult for a state whose rules are set by a party that, when it is tense, reaches a level of several percent, with the support of the president of the parliamentary committee who is neatly informing us what they have decided by consensus, and they have decided to pass most of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101584	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Nenad Stazic, Vice President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101585	It bothers you that the signatures for the referendum will be collected in the offices of the state administration. It bothers you with the kind of solution that exists in a whole series of democratic countries. You mind introducing order where there's been a mess so far. That's completely understandable to me. ... It's perfectly understandable to me that you're in the way of order. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're asking a hypothetical question what if a server crashes, what if someone can't access it. Well, if he doesn't know, he'll learn, if the server crashes, then he'll get better. But look what doesn't bother you, if one initiative now collects signatures in the squares and in front of churches and has a database for one referendum question, it can abuse it next time, ask another referendum question, sign names and last names, ID numbers of these people who have collected for one question, fold their signature and submit it as collected signatures. That's not what you're afraid of, that doesn't bother you. That hunt in the muddy that you advocate is something that suits you. You think it's bullying citizens that they're going to have to go to the state administration's offices. So when their child is born again they have to go to the state administration's office and report their child so no one thinks it's harassing the citizens. Those interested in resolving a referendum will go to the state administration offices, but there will be control over it and there will be order. Control and order is something that HDZ absolutely can't stand. It's something so contrary to both you and your party that this rebellion against this bill is to me, but also to all other citizens, but absolutely understandable.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101586	Thank you. ... /The noise in the hall./... Please, colleagues. ... /The noise in the hall./... Comrades and colleagues, you have the opportunity to engage in a debate, in replicas, let your colleagues discuss. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101587	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Stazic, we don't mind the order, but this story of yours about the order you're creating a mess with, it bothers us, you understand. This law is making a mess. As much as you refer to democratic states as I've read to you, this is the turn. Slovenia 2 million inhabitants, 40,000 signatures in 30 days. Switzerland 7 million 400 thousand residents, 50,000 signatures in 90 days. Hungary 9 million 800 thousand inhabitants, 200 thousand signatures in 120 days. It is the order, not Croatia with 4 million 284 thousand, now we have 373 thousand passengers within 15 days and 30 days. We're talking about being. If we want a referendum then let's cut the censorships. The signatures, the signature number, let's increase the deadlines. There's no problem where we're going to collect them, and not now we're talking here, we're staying at 10%, you're collecting 400,000 signatures in this small country with 4 million inhabitants, but then you can do it in 75 ways. Then we're talking about okay because it has Germany so you can online, so you can do this, you can do that, but not for every question. We even asked which questions in Article 3 should we not, and there we might be able to subdue the miracle of this question. That's what we're talking about. And as you gave birth to it, here we heard, opposition clubs aren't for this. Who's up for this? The SDP, the HNS, and we'll get into a situation, here's the HSU said that they're getting aware, that they're not very comfortable, because of the pensioners, so they're their voters, that they're all going to go to state offices, di. So the pensioner from my municipality will go to the state office, to the city of Rab. Okay, so how much does it cost me, 70 kuna. So why would I go fly there? What? What was wrong with him signing the square in front of the house, which he lacked. So what's he gonna put in the office that won't be there? Name, last name, OIB and signature and ID number. We're playing the story of order, and we're creating a mess, it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101588	Thank you. Branko Box, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned strange numbers in decimals to your colleague Boric. So these odd figures mention or regulate Article 9, here I like to be practical, so I'll try to show you how it would be with me. According to the last census, the city of Benkovac has 11026 inhabitants, so according to this formula we belong to the category 10 to 30 and we need 2000 plus 16.7 to collect signatures for the referendum, which is slightly less than 3000. Now, when these 3,000 articles are collected, the local referendum sets out most of the voters who have joined the referendum, provided that the majority is at least 1/3 of the voters enrolled in the list of local self-government voters. But I don't have 11026 as I said the residents on the list but I have 15,000 voters, so I have 4500 voters more than the residents. Now in order for the referendum to succeed, there is a need for more than 5,000 to go to the referendum. What does that mean in translation? He can't make it, he can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101590	Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101591	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Box, if you've listened to me very carefully, I've defined it in one sentence why they approached this. And then I said it was a mistake because they think the referendum question is a matter of place, number and mathematics. So they never questioned the policy they are leading and the reaction of the people to that policy. They created it, i.e. Turned into a number, so then he can play decimal 15.67 or 16 as much as he already is. Oh, no? We're going to turn that into people, turn that number into people, so now we don't know from those who actually live there, from those who are on the voters list or in some part of them I don't know the police list, etc. They're playing with people. They do not want to admit at any time that they are doing wrong policies and that they have received five referendums, that they have opposed the people with their policies and that the people have reacted. So what's the difference then, let's make it easy for them then. So let's make it easier if we're democratic, not making up stories about how we're introducing something modern, but we're putting in censorships that are invaluable. So let's see, Hungary has 9 million and 800,000 inhabitants, 200 thousand signatures in 120 days. So a state that has twice as many residents has twice as many signatures and three times or four times as long. It's democracy, there's no fear of the people. So who can't collect it if it's a matter of politics. No, we invent ways to put this people in some sort of regulation, that he listens to us, that we impose on him. And what are you gonna... Ask him to tell him what number it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Assembly Committee, I guess, I don't know who. Then the party will say that number is so long to pass the referendum. How did the local referendum go? Here in Fuzhini he fell because there weren't enough people out. What was the problem? It was a wind power plant. Someone wanted to do it. How do you get out of this? So they say some bats are in a pool over there, some kind of a beech. On Rab, we were building, we were supposed to build an airport, and now they've invented some bird's white-footed wind as a reason why the airport shouldn't be built after they've spent millions of dollars on that same project.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101592	Thank you. Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101593	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Boric, you said we don't know what the government says about this law. And I would say that we know what this law says about our citizens, what he thinks and what he wants to do about citizens' proposals and remarks. We can see what he thinks of all those who have made an observation of this law by unions, associations, especially the State Election Commission. The State Election Commission is obviously not professional enough or has no knowledge when it proposes 18 objections to this law, and even 12 are not accepted. One is, for example, that it proposes to prescribe the possibility of binding the Croatian Parliament as a kind of mediator that, once all the laws of the prescribed elements are established to call a state referendum, it organises a discussion between the Organisational Committee and the Government, and even that comment is not accepted. This speaks sufficiently of the proposal's will to satisfy or respond to that proposal or to the remark on which the referendum is to be called.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101594	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101595	What does the government say? The government doesn't say anything. She didn't say anything at the Electoral Law, what the government would say. She just said Friday, i.e. Thursday night, then Friday night, when a spear was broken between the two coalition parties here. Should we ban one politician from running or not being banned, and eventually they realized that they were better off allowing him to run anyway, and then here we attended this democracy festival directed by our chairman of the Assembly Committee. I mean, what does the government say? I don't know, the government's gonna have to work here. The state offices belong to some kind of authority in their domain. Someone's gonna have to do something but I don't know what time. When I prepare for that referendum when they enter the scene. Whoever does what there is and how the signatures are collected and how to trust that civil servant or official when someone signed us, filled out the signed plate that he didn't throw her in the trash. Where's the control of the one who drives the initiative? Nowhere. We can sign it, say it wasn't anybody. Where's the control? Where it says it in the law. It doesn't say anything. Well, it's games. This is how you were directly in touch, you told a citizen what he needed to know, he decided if he would sign, he wouldn't. He'd give you ID or he wouldn't give it, he'd sign it or he wouldn't, and the referendums went. We could've cut the number of signatures, we could've increased the number of days and the thing solved and left it where it was. What are we making up? Just so we're saying something that we're doing something, here we are from day to day, and the government obviously doesn't do anything. She doesn't have any opinion. Here's how I'd like to see what the minister of the administration think of this proposal and how he's experiencing it. He's playing with numbers and you managed to postpone a referendum with numbers. In one day it took 410 thousand, and then we realized that in the last election, there were 3 million and 700. So they've had enough signatures if we are, we want to be honest and say it. So you played them in some kind of procedure and there's no referendum. That's how it's gonna be with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101596	Thank you. Next replica of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101597	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, now that I listen to you, I realize that it is really a little ambitious to seek the collection of signatures through online service because you are unable to click on the Croatian Parliament website, read the letter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 15 January 2015 in the signature of Zoran Milanović, Prime Minister and read it. The government of the Republic of Croatia supports the proposal for a referendum law proposed by the Committee on the Constitution. It's really hard, and we're really gonna have to think about this initiative. Now, it's interesting how many countries you've mentioned and signed as much as they need, and yet you've skipped Bavaria which is obviously interesting and acceptable to you only in one aspect that requires 12 and a half million people a million signatures, but it gives for 15 days. Now you're talking about reducing the number of signatures. In 2010, the SDP tabled an amendment proposing a reduction in the number of signatures to 200 thousand. However, it was easier for your government to accept the restriction of the right to vote for the diaspora than to accept this amendment. Smart enough. And for the end. You're from Rab as far as I know. Rab is a town in Primorje-Gorski County [[Intruder Batinić: Comrade Shuker, please.]] The last referendum, a referendum on monetization, collected signatures in exactly six locations in the Primorje-Gorski County of Rijeka, Crikvenica, Krk, Delnice, Kraljevica, Cres. [[Intruder Batinić: Comrade Shuker, please.]] Where's Rab? He's gone. The people of Rab had to sit on the ferry, move to the mainland and go to sign either in Crikvenica or in the Queen or in Rijeka. Citizens of Mali Losinj could not collect signatures in their place, nor could the citizens of Opatija, Novi Vinodolski. And now, according to this law, he will be able to. You care so much about your citizens of Rab, it's an honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101598	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101599	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Peja, don't be nervous, if someone's lying in this assembly, it's you and you're doing it neatly out here, and every time you're representing your own orders from that Constitution committee of yours. I'll remind you, you came here, you stood in front of us and said we were changing the Constitution to protect the defenders from persecution. That's what you said, that was your first and basic argument. You've changed the Constitution a lot, and the defenders are in their seats and no one has accused them for anything. It means you keep doing it. You came here and you said we have to determine i.e. to establish the Parliamentary Investigation Commission to determine who killed Djurekovic. Yeah, it's fateful to determine who did it. That's what a court does, same in that country you're talking about, and they're gonna set it up. And I guess they'll figure it out. We'll see who King Kong is and who's something else. These are your lies and you're coming here as completely unbelief as you came and today, you're making it up, you're starting to make it up. That's what you've been doing on Election Law. Well, it was sad to see you vote on those amendments, sad. Because you're playing with people and you think they're your own personal toy that you can manipulate, tell them stories and convince them that you're perfect. And everything and one of your policies has fallen apart, and no reform you've launched has succeeded, and we have a state in which we have. And it's the people who are going to say it, and I already told you this once because you're starting to think that you're allowing someone else something. The people allow and will react to this as well as to all other laws. And laws can be changed. This is going to change because this doesn't make sense. And don't tell us about the democracy that you're narrowing down to create your own wider spaces. And my Rab will show you what he thinks when it's right. What if the signatures had gathered enough on that initiative, so they shouldn't have come to Rab? There may have been enough in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101600	Time, fellow Boric. We have an announcement of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101601	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You should have warned in accordance with Article 238 of your colleague, Pejo Grbin, because looking at it is embarrassing when someone is talking about something and then making an obvious lie. Mr. Grbin should know that the SDP has blackmailed the government of the Republic of Croatia for constitutional changes to practically ban the vote of Croats outside Croatia and then eventually the blackmail ended on 3 MPs. It was a blackmail to amend the Constitution which was a condition for the conclusion of the negotiations. And that's true. And you, when you have no arguments, don't at least lie like that in this High House. And as far as you're telling the truth, the best indicator is the Law on selecting MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101602	You're discussing your colleague Shuker, and the breach of the Rules of Procedure was not. And I'd pray you don't use words of lying, it can be said... Allow me, it's a warning to everyone who has expressed themselves in this way. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's why I'm asking you. And fellow Shuker, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. And don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with you that lying is, above all, a difficult word and that I'm bad, then I'd wonder how much HDZ lied to us with what and how it's seen in Remitinc. All right! You asked why we need this, why this law should be passed? He says it's supposed to be the fear of the citizens because we citizens are afraid. I'm not afraid of citizens, dear fellow but I fear the manipulation of this institution's referendum. And the institution of the referendum is going to agree on one of the essential fundamentals of the democratic order. And I'll tell you how these manipulations are done. I have a problem because Croatia is a secular state and it is a referendum and decision-making in the referendum that it is a matter of secular state to collect signatures in sacral objects, to collect signatures in cafes, to interest people by paying them drinks and so on. We talked about motivation. If someone is motivated and wants that referendum, then I guess they'll either make two clicks or go to the office. We're introducing fewer signatures, too, colleague. If the deadlines are a problem I have here now debate after this so I'll advocate to extend them, I'll advocate to extend them. I'm going to suggest that we extend those deadlines. When you talk about consensus, but it's really great when it comes from you, when we talk, I agree that consensus is important for a lot of things but why can't we get to consensus? I'll tell you, dear colleague. When we talked about the Education Strategy all and one remark, all and one amendment proposed by your colleagues was accepted and adopted in the strategy. And did you vote for the strategy? You're not. So I'm wondering how, so here's how you tell me how to get a consensus with HDZ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101604	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101605	How do you get here? Not the way you're coming, here's the simplest. You do not want consensus because you want to blackmail each other and you want to depend on a party that is your biggest coalition partner. And you make such laws. You've passed election law with their help, if it hadn't been for the law to pass. And that's true. If you had a consensus, they wouldn't depend on them. But you can't understand it, obviously you can't. There was a convocation of the Parliament where the spear was broken, there were people who created these consensuses and brought something together. You don't want any from the beginning. I'll remind you again, do we want a consensus on the election of a civil defender? The director of HRT? Where we had no right to suggest. We want a consensus on constitutional changes, we want a consensus on the electoral law? How many times do I have to repeat that? Well, you can't reach consensus in a way that you tell someone you don't have the right to suggest anyone. What kind of consensus is that? Then it's better to give up right now, so you guys go ahead and bang your stories. As far as these Remetins are concerned, you've got enough of your players. Or do you not see what you have in your ranks? Just here in Parliament, not to speak any further. And what I wanted to suggest to you, not just in the offices of the state administration, to better control them, and who want to sign, open up police stations for them. Well, if someone's inadmissible right away, let them say what they thought, right? And that's an option, right now in the police department, sign what you wanted, and you're free. So if we're gonna play we can play in different ways and I'm telling you this is fear of our own people. And you've seen how it goes, and what it's gonna look like will be fun. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101606	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101607	Thank you very much. Dear Boris, you have rightly warned of the complexity of the calculation of the required number of signatures. It is easier to master students of integral, lymes, derivation and logarithms than it will calculate the required number of regulations. But why is that done? So this is an attempt to create a democratic model for banning the referendum. You say this is against the people, this is an attack on the people, this is an attack on their own people. When is the people looking for a referendum? When he feels that the government doesn't run the state in the interests of them and now we need to make it impossible for them. Why 10%? 10% of the necessary signatures are a model for manipulation. If the minister doesn't know what 10% is, how will someone else know what 10% is, the minister of the administration? If Hungary has twice the population and has 200 thousand why shouldn't Croatia have 200,000 votes needed? We'll all raise our hands for such a proposal right away. That 200 grand is necessary, enough to call a referendum. Article 14 of the organisers, the initiator of the signing of the referendum shall disable and exclude the decision on the date of the beginning of the signature collection. It's determined by the state administration as if she's the one who decided to collect the signatures. The organizer is disabled, taken and freed, and the right to decide when they will start what they decide to run, not someone else. I can call this an uncivilized solution, but how to link the government to civilized solutions I don't know. Such a proposal for a referendum law as if it were written in Romania, but 40 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101608	The answer of my colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101609	Comrade Maric, I agree with you on everything. Because here's the only one we have that's 10% dependent on us, that last number has to be one, two, three to nine. These all have round numbers, 400 grand, 200 grand, 50 grand, ours must depend on the minister's will because if one day he's ill-willed he remembers and says 410 grand, then you're short another 100,000, then he says in the register there's so much, in the list of voters there's so many, they're so clouded that initiative and they're playing a little bit like this, a little bit like that, but the referendum wasn't. They did everything and he wasn't there. Then they took over their solutions and said here's the SDP working for the people. Preferential vote, we're you, then they take that credit for themselves and they say you've all stayed against, we haven't even voted, we haven't been here at all. Because they brought it up in a way to say by consensus, but as we say, as we say by consensus. But the consensus is that we disagree on nothing. That's what the only consensus was. And then they tell us stories, they have another failed Cyrillic, they've caused themselves a problem, people react, they suppress, they come here, it's a great effort it's not a game, it's a great effort of people, volunteers, days and days. Then they say a little bit we'll let you go and we'll go to the Constitutional Court and see if it's okay, then nothing. Now we're playing with the other two, here come the decisions after this debate, monetization and outsourcing. We play, we buy time. There's one thing I can't take down, but they've already said something wrong with the one point is guilty, you understand? And at no time did you suspect that they had done something wrong like the government, that they had entered a process that they couldn't complete, and they kept telling us that it was only right and that the referendums needed, i.e.. We only need the people's opinion in the election, we'll look nice, we'll be like flowers great in this election year, but after that, we'll be good-bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101610	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101611	A fellow Boric, reading, here you have repeatedly mentioned the sentence who suggested it. This is suggested and it is obvious that whoever wants the referendum not to be held at all, to simply disable the collection of signatures and that such referendums do not exist and the fact that they are not wanted is all of this about what you were talking about and the referendum on Cyrillic, for all those who were. Here they no longer have a model like the one in Fužine you mentioned when the reason was because of the referendum that failed and was not in the interest of the ruling was because of the bats and hollow beech the project stopped with you in Rab because of that windstorm of yours, but here also Mrs Antičević said in front of the SDP that they want to prevent terror in this way most of the minority from thinking about the terror of the peoples over the government, because this is not how the people can express themselves through the referendums because it will simply be impossible to get through something like this. This is where they talked about the desire to introduce order. We witnessed the adoption of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament when the vote was played when neither the one who proposed nor those who voted did not know why they voted or what they proposed but passed as such. And I will mention here the law that allowed the crisis to stop in 2009, the re-election in the units of local self-government by direct selection of leaders when they wanted to keep it in check in the hands of the mayor of Zagreb, changed this good law in such a way that we now have a dozen crises in different municipalities and cities, that these cities stand, that the shooting continues as well, I guess, this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101612	Thank you. Reply to the replica Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101613	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, I remember now, you now reminded me when we talked about local elections i.e. about the laws they've changed. Here we had a lively debate about the Law on Local Self-Government, about local self-government elections, about mayors and mayors, and so was the minister of administration back then. And then we claimed to him from the club, I remember his debate all the cohabitations would fall in the first two years because no one was interested in the executive power, let's say in some way it works and that the legislative one that most suggest and the executive authority won't implement it. So, what happened? We had 20 of them. In two years, everything fell. It's over, not anymore, unless there's a new one in the election again. They're always convinced that absolute knowledge and absolute skill are just with them and that the rest of us don't know anything, that we don't know anything, that we don't even know how to apply it without knowing how to get out of it. You were talking about these local referendums, we had Fužines, they fell because bats were found. Let's just say in the Plates, the referendum passed, they didn't want to, as citizens don't want a thermal power plant on coal. Now she's getting ready, I don't know, in Labin. When I was talking about Rab, there was no referendum, but one project which two, three years ago has already been forced by the Rab airport, and now that they realize they've spent money on the project and they don't know how to move on, they can't close the financial structure, they suddenly show up from the Ministry of Environmental Protection a memo saying in that part is a habitat, and these birds also choose to move the project. Well, these are the most elegant ways to get out of such... Only the money was spent, the money was spent, and now we're making up stories. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is fortunate that the power has fallen and that the elections will form a new, more responsible and better no matter what they tell us but this is a law that does not go in favour of the people, goes only to his harm and someone wants to put them in frames that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101614	Thank you. Tomislav Žagar, replica next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101615	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Boric, a dimension has somehow risen, but not just from your debate, from more debates here today, and I would like to emphasise. In fact, in your debate, you were hypothetically preparing a referendum, all the steps you did correctly, you prepared everything, and then you prepared yourself to go to volunteers and volunteers to do the job. However, the law provides for the state administration to enter that place. And then you recede, and it seems to me that somehow you are, as if this state administration is not the State Administration of the Republic of Croatia, but that it has become some kind of occupation force. The State Administration must be a service to the citizens. She should also be in your hypothetical referendum partner and help you carry out this referendum. In the state administration, believe me, there are a lot of professionals who do their job very well and who could certainly help you in this job. Confidence in our institutions is not the problem of this law, the referendum, it is more of a problem for us as people who deal with politics and political parties. That mistrust should be getting smaller, that they first... Trust and then institutions do their job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here is the area of my county, so so far it's practically a referendum, here's the last referendum against monetization being held in 3 places. In my answer, it will be possible to do so in 8 places. So I'm looking from another angle and I see that law has its advantages. Of course there's a problem with how people will come, when they'll come, but there's a problem like this. Well, you can't tell me that when you hold a referendum that you'll meet all these people, you'll talk to everyone, you won't, someone and they must visit, someone has to bring them. So it's always that problem. And finally, to conclude, playing by strict rules is better than playing without rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101616	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101617	Thank you very much. Well, I find out for the first time that we've played without rules so far, there's rules, here's Bauk's rules every 10 days, some other rule was, but there was. Don't say that. Because you misunderstood my argument. I said I did all the work and came to the stand and volunteers but then a citizen came and I'm telling him off my stand with that flyer to go there to the state administration's office. I don't see him anymore, who knows where he'll end up, so he'll lose his will to spend his money, his time. No more contact between the initiative and the state administration. Where does she exist, who controls this process? Who's in control? This is where I control, I sign on the stand, and I control it, and I know who signed me, who controls me there? A civil servant. And fill out a nice whole table and since there are nice relationships in society, let's say that this state official is SDP and the initiative is ours, he throws in the trash and what I'm going to do to him. Do I have the right to doubt that? I do. Where is this legally settled? It doesn't exist. And I think that's the way it is. Now you can assure me that's not the case. It's not settled, is it written somewhere in the law? Whose printers are the signatures? From me, from the initiative or will it go to the expense of the state administration? Is that what we finance the referendum without even knowing? Shall we move on? So there's a mass of problems that arise and there's no need, there's no need when you've earned five referendums in three years under a very bad law as you say without rules. And that's how you lose the election. Well, then, here's the next one for us to make 10. ... And I mean, what's the problem? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you didn't get it right. ... One moment between the initiative and the state administration, no contact disappears, no one controls the process, and that is the error of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It must be prescribed then to know who's doing what. If not then we're all wandering around town looking for the state administration's office and it's not right for us to walk those who want to sign it and they can do it on the stand and they'll write me a name and a last name, they'll give me an OIB, a ID number, where it's issued and a nice signature. They'll do the same in the office. And what bothers you? You obviously want to control something.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101618	Thank you. Next replica of Nada Turina Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101619	In your debate, you called for the will of the people on several occasions, and you are absolutely right there, so the will of the people in democratic systems should be respected and it is fundamentally reflected in principle and in general in modern Western democracies every 4 years by going out to the elections and choosing who governs, or runs the state. So the referendum is just another step in expressing the will of the people. And I would say here that I don't fully agree with you that there is a threat to the will of the people here because there is only a certain order and certain rules of the game and there is a reduction in the space of manipulation that you unfortunately don't want to see. There's a room for manipulation and there's a very large space. For example, you know that, there are political parties that have hundreds of thousands of members who, of course, are voters and have their OIBs, have their ID numbers because they have to have them by law in their registers. They also have their signatures on the access cards. So the space for manipulation if it's wanted there's a way that someone personally shows up in the state administration's office or in some mock place I'd agree to expand the space, that more places should be allowed to collect signatures, not just public administration offices, that's my personal opinion, my position but that there must be some order and that whoever's really interested in expressing their will to do so. And as for the will of the people and the fear of the people, and you said so, the people were afraid of the authority that prevented the people and prevented the citizens of this country from gathering in Mark's square to protest against the government. This government has abolished it or made it possible for citizens to think within the first month or two of the days it's been in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101620	Thank you, colleague Đuric. Answer me, Comrade Boric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101621	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Members, so you've interpreted that we were afraid of the people and then we shouldn't go to Mark's square and now they can and what, come here all the doors locked, they yell, no one answers, they do their work, they go and no one cares. Big progress, really big progress. It's a really big breakthrough and all the unions are. All the protests worked. That's a fact. That's probably how this kind of initiative will work under your rules. And then you find a party and you say we have 200 and some thousands of apartments and then we'd fake something for you. You don't need that. If we have them, we have them in the field, which I guess I'll sign for them, I guess. And who's got that, who's got a better list, so he's got a state administration office, he's got everything, name and last name and signatures and numbers and the OIBs, so now we're gonna put doubt into it? You're saying that manipulation and your famous referendum on the Labour Act is 700,000 signatures. Well, don't let that happen. Why manipulation? If people wanted to, they wanted to. Yet you changed the Labour Act, there was no protest, there was no referendum, as it turned out to be and what was the problem. So you're always willing to charge someone else, you don't want to admit that you made a mistake. Get in between these two readings a little bit, listen to what they say, what the opposition says, try to give some attention to that opposition, respect some opinions, you don't know everything, and let's bring some law together if we want to bring it to everyone's benefit, not to force democracy on us here with your majority. And it turns out that by electoral engineering you want to stay in power. You're not gonna make it. And that you follow the rules for both elections and referendums and everything else. Well, that's not correct. And that's why we keep talking about a consensus that you don't know just because you come ahead with the solutions you've given, and you can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101622	Thank you. Next to discuss Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101623	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We've spent all day talking about the referendum, about democracy, about civil democracy, the liberal democracy we live in, so maybe it wouldn't be worse to remind us of things. Some even called democracy and the dictatorship of the majority, but the point of dear colleagues and colleagues is that most people in democracy decide. It is only in the last century that we can see that in the institutions of democracy, concepts such as protection of minorities are introduced from that majority, etc., etc. So to force democracy with most hands in the House so I don't see what the problem is, so it's the essence of democracy but good. The referendum is an important institution of our democratic order, as well as of everyone else and what I am afraid of, so what we have talked about is not fear of the people's opinion but fear is exactly the manipulation or abuse of this institute. How? So so far, initiatives have shown how sensitive this area is and is subject to manipulation. I would agree with colleagues who had discussed before me in the direction that motivation is extremely important. Motivation if people want to get out, if they think the referendum issue is important then they'll go to the office, then they'll make two clicks. If they're not sure and maybe they'll do it along the way, maybe they'll do it by the authority, not actually informing themselves about what this initiative is about. There are far more important problems in Croatian society, and I have said this before, whether or not the definition of marriage is written in the Constitution. Then we can discuss topics that may appear in the referendum, topics that are affecting the basic values of the Croatian Constitution and everything that modern, anti-fascist, liberal, democratic Republic of Croatia represents. We can have absurdities, we can have an initiative to enter the Constitution that sarma is a natural union by law of a particular cabbage and meat. I mean, do you realize how far that can go? So I see this law above all as an arrangement of this segment, this institution of our democratic society, and as such it is certainly welcome. In just a few words, he would point out some of the newspapers that this law makes, although we've heard them several times today and more times, but I might also give my perspective, or why I think they're important. I think it is very good to prescribe a new way of making a decision or collecting signatures from the initiative itself. And why is that? This time, the initiative must be well explained and we will no longer be able to keep our initiatives out of line with our Constitution. Because what you do, the citizens and the public are burdened with some initiative, you mobilize people, they give certain signatures, they create polemics that can be as harsh as so far's referendums show that in the end, it turns out that the issue is not in line with the Constitution, and then people of course blame institutions why the Constitutional Court allowed it at all, etc., why we as politicians allowed it, etc. The collection of signatures in the Office of State Administration e-Citizens about this is very much said here. What I would point out is two things. First of all, we have at all times an insight into the number of signatures of support collected. And two, no more signature checks. I mean, those signatures are physically impossible to check if I'm not mistaken. The Ministry of Administration, or the competent authority for the administration, usually does so by a random sample of each 10th, shall verify whether it has given the correct information. But let's start by maybe checking to see if he actually signed it. That's where we might get into trouble, but it can't physically get there. There's a campaign going on. It's very important to me, too, because be careful if, when we run political campaigns, we have some frameworks, some rules that we have to stick to, first of all, and finance. So, the financial nature and transparency of campaign financing. I don't see why other citizens' initiatives or parties of any kind when it comes to the referendum would not have the same obligations and, of course, the rights that arise from them. I'd like to see how and whose money some campaigns and initiatives are funded. That would be extremely convenient to see, so whether the laws are you or not, but that's what the courts will say. The initial committees for and against which and then formal bodies leading the campaign are established. That's good for me, so let's see what people are on both sides. In most cases, we have had clearly on one side an initiative committee that was for some initiative, while those against were usually ah I would say in some, in a gray zone, or it was not always clear who they were actually running the campaign against. The assumptions for the success of the local referendum are reduced, as is the mayor's recall. It also reduces the number of signatures to be collected. So at any moment we can be sure who signed it and how many. There was a lot of mention here of Hungary as someone who, I would dare say, is well aware of the internal political situation in Hungary. At present, I think we have a lot of things to compare with Hungary, but in democratic achievements, I'm not sure at least under this government. And finally, we've heard a lot of criticism and a lot of doubts. In my opinion, this law removes many possibilities for manipulation of signatures, and we've seen how it's worked so far. The signatures weren't delivered immediately, so they counted. The initiatives took care of them. What happened then at that moment, whether the signatures were still collected secretly cannot be told publicly but it is certainly one form of manipulation. If the deadline for collecting signatures is a problem such as some respected HDZ colleagues pointed out here I propose to the Proposer to consider until the next reading on the possible extension of this deadline. How much to discuss it with the Constitutional Committee, then we can discuss it later at the plenary session, and also submit amendments if necessary. I understand the nervousness of HDZ colleagues when we talk about the introduction and order but also of this law, because associations close to them will no longer be able, or they will not be able to recycle the signatures as it suits them, for the daily political purposes of abuse of this noble democratic institution. And let me get this straight. Any support from this law until the second reading we will believe we will have a much better proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101624	Thank you. Next to discuss Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So I'm going to say that it seems to me that Kukuriku coalition has failed to get over that referendum on marriage, the union of men and women, and now it doesn't want to risk anything more, it wants in every way to disable, prevent any statement by citizens in the referendum. Because the collection of signatures we all know isn't right and voting, so some referendum initiative can happen regardless of the collected signatures don't go through. Maybe that's what would happen with a preferential vote. There was no need to manipulate more than 380 thousand citizens, cheat them with various parameters, laws with older chicken or egg, and then prevent this referendum from being held and then propose a semi-combination of a similar law that is nowhere near what the initiative has proposed. Here we talked about the elderly today, about the information perhaps less written, about the problems that could arise, about the costs, but no one has said and asked what will happen to the citizens, the poorer citizens, and unfortunately in Croatia there is a lot that will have to travel to the Office of State Administration 50, 20, 30, how many miles and pay for that map or someone to beg to take him to that place. In that case, when someone drives in a car, we have no doubt that they'll manipulate him, that they'll convince him of something, that they'll get him to sign it. Well, there's plenty of time driving half an hour to the destination. No one thought about it even when those various decisions were made on the migration of the farm paying office, when decisions were made on savings, on the judiciary, and now on the way to the courts, farmers travel to the offices. Now we want to do this about this most banal thing, we want people to make them travel to civil servants. I'm sorry for your expression. It's like a regimeal restriction. What I'd say is I don't mind the signatures being collected in the Offices of State Administration among other things. Of course it's improving the program of e-citizens, absolutely yes. But then why end the main one, put this as an alternative, instead of adding this as an additional possibility for citizens to be even more involved in making decisions and giving their views and opinions. I am absolutely in favour of the fact that in this law, and I propose, add, in Article 7 that the competent authority of the state authorities will, before the signing begins, be obliged to publish the number of voters and the exact number of voters that are required, whose signatures need to be collected to know how many initiatives must be collected before the manipulation of the state institutions we witnessed in the time behind us. The second thing, in Article 13, is to add that the signatures by the Office of State Administration can be collected in all public places in the Republic of Croatia, and I will even say further than to allow volunteers, registered volunteers with accurate markings, to be able to collect signatures in any part of Croatia at any time in the time determined for the collection of signatures. That would be a democracy for me. So if people are going to collect signatures, if they think something's wrong, if they think something needs to be done differently, let a referendum be called and let the citizens decide. They're going to make a secret decision in the referendum and no one is going to be able to say that someone talked them into something or manipulated them with their signature, the OIB, and I don't know what we've been hearing about here all this time. So I repeat, this law, as it limits the freedom of citizens, makes it impossible literally to call a referendum. At the beginning of that part, the promoter said it was somewhere. I haven't been able to find it, here I apologize, in law, that I'm going to ask you to show me a little bit where it says, what is the number of voters, where it is determined that before the signatures are launched, how many voters should be collected to launch the referendum initiative. I couldn't find out maybe I'm not reading well, maybe I don't see well, but here I am asking you to tell me what article it's in. But I suggest that this is explicitly written in article 7, so that, before the start of the signing action, the physical determination of how many voters there are and how many 10% is the exact number to be collected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101626	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101627	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Hrg, I share your concern for our citizens who are unfortunately weaker property status and who in order to realise their right means that they support some referendum initiative must spend some money to physically come there. But you say this law is there to cut them by that plan, here I am going to set an example for you to break them and this law. In Osijek-Baranja County, where I came from, the signings for the referendum were gathered, for example, in Osijek, Đakov, Beli Manastir, Valpovo, Donji Miholjc and Nasice. Six cities out of seven. So Belisce was not included there, my colleague Buric is not here, but I believe he would certainly welcome the fact that under this law the signatures will also be collected in Belist. But I can ask you again, what about the citizens of Darda, from Duboshevica, from Strizivojna, from Aljmash, from Levanjska varoshi, which is extremely far from the first place where the signatures are collected? Were their rights better with this law? That's where the signatures didn't come together. This way we're just trying to put order in. That's all. That the signatures don't come together by the bar and I guess the law doesn't say that every bar is a place to collect signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101628	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101629	So if some cities and municipalities didn't collect signatures, then this law in this proposal to be among other things and the offices of the state administration would allow them, but you have prevented many others from doing so. You have prevented municipalities around the cities, in Koprivnica-križevci County there are only three outposts of the Office of State Administration, and there are no idea how many 100, 150 settlements, 20 and some municipalities. So, what do we do with them? That's why I'm saying that they should be state administrations' offices but let's not remove what's been going on so far, add to make it possible for everyone, not this way. Why not go to people instead of people always having to travel behind some kind of clerks and services? Why are we making citizens travel for someone? No one pays them back that cost. When citizens travel, no one calculates when the law is passed that citizens will have a material financial cost, no one says that. We're just looking to see if they'll save themselves somewhere else, and where are the citizens? Yeah, I'm worried about poor citizens, I live in a place where there's a lot of poor people, I live in a rural area where there's a lot of peasants, I know the situation well, and I know how it works there. There are many such areas in Croatia. So let them come to them to be offered, they will decide whether they want to or not. But it's funny to me a little bit of that argument didn't come out in Beliss, they couldn't because there was no booth there, so now they're going to go out there and they couldn't before. Oh, come on! It's a stunt. If the activists didn't come to Belisce, it's their failure, they're the ones who initiated it. Well, if they could have come, they might not have been given a stand by someone in a town in some community, which was cases. There was that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101630	Thank you. Peja Grbin, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101631	Thank you. I'm going to reach out to a colleague of Hajdukovic from the perspective of your county. First of all, the Office of State Administration includes the home offices. And the parent offices fall into the system of state administration and they will be places where the signatures can be collected. In your county, in the last referendum, the signatures were collected in Koprivnica, Križevci and Djurdjevac. Under this law, it will be gathered in Koprivnica, Drnja, Goli, Đurđevac, Kloštr Podravski, Virje, Križevci, St. John the Frog, St. Peter Orehovac. 9 places compared to the current 3. But you said let's go home to the citizens. Well, that's exactly what we're doing with this law. With this law we go to the house of every citizen in the Republic of Croatia who has access to the Internet, and we have already established that 97% of households are covered in 2013 by an internet network, a broadband network and 65%, or two-thirds of the population of the Republic of Croatia are using the Internet on a weekly basis. So we went to the houses 97% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. And for those who don't, they don't know, they don't want to, they can't electronically support one referendum initiative we went to 330 state administrations, we went where they can come in the same way they're coming in now. If we're talking about the cost, so here's what I didn't sign in my neighborhood in Pula, my place in Pula is on Stoja, one part of town, I also have to come into town, and I also have to pay for parking if I want to sign a referendum initiative. In the same way as when I go to the Office of State Administration, except that this will be closer to the existing booths for all citizens now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101632	Thank you. My colleague Hrg's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101633	You're a colleague of the coat of arms like I can let you pay for that parking lot and you can come by your car, and I'm talking about those layers of citizenship that I can't afford, I can't come because they don't have it. I beg you to think of them, don't act on that "Sit of the hungry doesn't believe." And that's how you behave. And I repeat, I don't mind being state-run in the law, managing the state administration, but I do have an objection to eliminating what's been so far. The town of Križevci you mentioned has 59 villages in the ring and the city itself. So when you talk about the town of Križevci, then you say the signatures were collected in the town of Križevci, yes, but at how many locations, in how many places, on Saturdays and Sundays, and afternoons and at any time of the day. And here you are saying, what my colleague Lesar says here right now, thank you for making it between 7 and 3. You put people under a lamp, you literally dress them up, they don't like to go people, they're afraid, if you don't believe in a poll, they're afraid of people in the regime, they're afraid to say their opinions, they're scared. And you didn't answer that question I asked, where the law defined that the list of voters would be published before the signing begins, and what is the exact number, you didn't answer that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101634	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101635	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrg, every law would have to express the will of the people, and answer to the interests of the nation and the general good. This law is exactly the opposite of that, it does not correspond to the interests of the nation but to the interests of the government. This means that the people should exist because of the government, not the other way around. Any law should improve the situation, and this proposal of yours. Three are the key things to fix. To leave what was and to allow for more collection in these places and this way in the Offices of State Administration and the Internet, which only improves the situation but does not end what already exists. And to remove three things, to determine the nominal amount of 200 thousand necessary signatures, that places can also be returned to the public to collect signatures and that the organiser decides when to start collecting signatures and not the state administration, we have resolved everything possible. And so that an employee can't go to the vote at all, he can't be physically disproved, he's deprived of his right, he's given the right not to consume that right. And the only way he's running economic policy is if the government and those who are currently employed are free to go to the state administration, because he'll be out of a job soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101636	Thank you. My colleague Hrg's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101637	Yes, a colleague is correct, you said the laws should follow the will of the citizens, the will of the people, and unfortunately we are witnessing that this is happening more and more frequently in the opposite direction. The laws should also protect those most vulnerable, the poorest, those who need to be given what is available to others. In this case, that thing is happening right now. Now that you're saying so and you're proposing in principle I'm thinking, so here's another idea why it wouldn't be possible for those who are initiators in polling places where otherwise elections are held to give it to them that they can take certain days in those places to collect signatures and thus be present to citizens literally in their backyard that they don't have to travel any further. But there's no hearing, there's no desire to do it, and there's problems. There's no desire because there's definitely fear. If there were no such fear, wouldn't it be allowed to hold a referendum on preferential voting? Well, there were enough signatures so we're funny to ourselves, I mean what my colleague Boric was saying earlier, it was me asking the question and asking the minister to give me an answer as many voters as Croatia has. I got three conflicting answers in a couple of days. Well, I mean, my people, who's kidding around here? Well, we need to think about how serious we are about that kind of thing. So this is definitely after that referendum where the Kukuriku coalition saw that the people were a little bit on a different path from them, they are now afraid of any referendum and they want to prevent its general launch.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101638	Thank you. This is what we've exhausted the list of people reported. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101639	Proposal for a referendum law, first reading, P.Z. No. 769, the legislator is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a referendum law proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law.". Please vote on this conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 76 votes in favour, no abstentions and 38 votes against, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101640	We will now continue with a united discussion: - Proposal for a Decision on the basis of a motion for a call for a referendum on the adoption of the Law on the pursuit of accompanying and non-basic activities in the public sector – Proposers of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System; - Proposal for a Decision under the Request for a call for a State referendum on the regulation of the issue of Croatian highways in concession – Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System; The provisions of the Rules of Procedures relating to the second reading of the law apply. Is it on behalf of the proposer? Here you go, buddy coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101641	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Based on the provisions of the Law on Referendum, the Organisational Committee on Voting of Voters on the need to request a referendum to be called on 16 July 2014 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the call for a State referendum proposing the adoption of the Law on the implementation of accompanying and non-basic activities in the public sector. In addition to the request, lists of books resulting from the fact that the request supported the required number of voters so that a referendum could be called upon on the basis of it. Acting in line with that request, the Croatian Parliament called on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of voter signatures and demands. Following the verification, the Government sent a report to the Parliament on the number and credibility of voter signatures and requests stating that the State Statistics Institute, with a statistical error of 1.09%, found that 563 thousand 815 authentic signatures of voters were collected, i.e. that more than 10% of the total number of voters enrolled in the Republic of Croatia were collected. Following such verification, it has been established that the conditions for the application for a referendum have been met and that the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system is in accordance with the provisions of Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament must prepare a proposal for appropriate acts and refer them to the Assembly for further action. In accordance with that obligation, the Committee proposes to adopt a proposal for a decision to be adopted by the Assembly on the basis of Article 95. The constitutional law on the Constitutional Court shall require the Constitutional Court to determine whether the contents of the referendum matter are in accordance with the Constitution and whether the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) to (3) have been fulfilled. It's a constitution to call a national referendum. In order to avoid any doubt at first, the committee does not propose such a decision because it has doubts about the constitutionality of the issue, but rather the opposite. It is proposed to ask such a question to the Constitutional Court precisely because board members are convinced that the request for a referendum is not allowed. Although I believe that this is already a matter in place today and, in the future, concerns the second referendum that we are going to discuss today, I will repeat that the Constitutional Court stated in its decision of 13 January 2014: "The Croatian Parliament is not authorised to make a decision which would decide that the state referendum will not be called and that this means that the Croatian Parliament is obliged in any case when it assesses that it is necessary for a purpose or that there is doubt about the constitutionality of the referendum issue or the belief of the non-constitutional issue to refer the request to the Constitutional Court on the basis of Article 95. Constitutional law.". The proposers of this Decision are convinced that the referendum issue under consideration is unconstitutional, i.e. that its adoption would be contrary to the Constitution and the law of the European Union, which is based on Article 145. The Constitution and relevant decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union commanded by the Croatian legal order. In this argument, I will not engage in formal objections, such as whether or not this is a matter which goes within the scope of Article 87. The Constitution, i.e. whether the referendum issue is sufficiently reasoned, I will only try to stick to the issues of the content of the proposed referendum issue in the Constitution and the law of the European Union. The Constitution treats entrepreneurship and market freedom, i.e. market, market economy and competition as the cornerstone of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia, as well as human rights and fundamental freedoms which enjoy constitutional protection. Such protection means that the legislator is not authorised to pass those laws that would lead to the violation of these constitutional standards. In the present case, the applicants sought to prevent the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the direction of the separation of certain activities from the public sector and what the Government proposed in the framework of its constitution of established powers to the Assembly submitted a request proposing a comprehensive and unconditional ban on the carrying out of all activities described as accompanying and non-essential activities in the public sector by persons not employed in that public sector. If the proposed referendum issue were adopted in the Republic of Croatia, a law would enter into force which stipulates that the accompanying activities necessary for the day-to-day functioning of public and public services are carried out, I quote: "... exclusively by employees, employees and tenants, or persons in the public sector.". The adoption of the referendum issue would therefore lead to the fact that no public and public service can engage a person who is not employed in the public sector in the field of doing business such as: service of computer equipment, telephones, copy or fax devices, repair of motor vehicles, transportation of persons or things, and cleaning and maintenance of work premises. Simplified 24 years after the adoption of the first democratic constitution of the Republic of Croatia, exiting the socialist social order and moving to the market economy is proposed to pass a law that would introduce a state economy in order not to be ashamed of the Soviet Union either. Such a provision would call into question the entrepreneurial and market freedom guaranteed by the Constitution and would question the legal position of entrepreneurs on the market, also guaranteed by the Constitution on which the Constitutional Court, in its decision of 19 June 2009, says: "When limiting the entrepreneurial freedom that the Constitution allows only exceptionally to protect the legitimate objectives set out in the Constitution, it is a duty for the legislator to respect the principle of proportionality laid down in Article 16. The Constitution.". In the present case, not only did the applicants not explain the reasons for the proposed prohibition but they were not satisfied with one proposal from the Government to prohibit any such or similar treatment. In line with the above, we believe that the adoption of the referendum issue would harm entrepreneurship and market freedom, the market, the market economy and competition as fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, and that there are therefore no assumptions for the opening of the referendum, the future referendum issue is not allowed. However, the referendum issue in question is particularly questionable and from the point of view of the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia by its member of the European Union. Article 145(2) states: "The legal acts and decisions adopted by the Republic of Croatia in the institutions of the European Union shall apply in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the acquis of the European Union.". The adoption of the requirements and the proposed referendum on the Croatian legal system would be subject to a regulation that significantly restricts the movement of goods, persons, services and capital, which is what we call the fundamental freedoms of the European Union. However, European law allows for a derogation from the absolute liberal application of these four freedoms. The market economy is the cornerstone of Europe, but not just any market economy but the socially sensitive one that takes into account that absolute freedom of the market has not brought the desired progress anywhere, while the generation of inequality has always been a disaster for society and its development. Article 36 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, however, states on the permitted restrictions on market freedom: those prohibitions or restrictions shall not be a means of arbitrary discrimination or a disguised restriction of trade between Member States. This is called a proportionality test, the same one that is based on Article 16. The Constitution introduced our Constitutional Court. However, the proposed referendum issue does not satisfy this proportionality test. In fact, there is no explanation in the request for such a general ban on the performance of all accompanying activities in any way other than public service employees. It does not meet the principle of proportionality or the reason why the proposed law is arbitration. Without question, and economic reasons, it prescribes an obligation to carry out activities in only one way, which excludes a whole series of service providers operating on the market of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. The law does not satisfy this test and for the reason that adoption of the proposed referendum issue would essentially lead to a significant increase in the cost of carrying out the accompanying activities, since they are moving them from the market and public authorities undertake to engage in additional labour to carry out jobs that can certainly be cheaper and more efficient through the provider of services on the market. This referendum issue is not about whether or not to be introduced into the Croatian legal system. Outsourcing in the Croatian legal system already exists. This is a problem because it prohibits outsourcing in any case and when it is needed and when it is economically justified. It also prohibits it when we have the smallest institution that has 5 or 10 employees because it requires it to organise in its system the cleaning, service of computers, legal services etc. Such a way of making state resources available in 2015 is not acceptable. I would now move on to an explanation of the request concerning this second referendum. On 17 November 2014, the Organisational Committee for Voter Statement on the need to request a referendum to be called on 17 November 2014 it sent a request to the President of the Croatian Parliament for a national referendum proposing the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act. The application shall be accompanied by the necessary signatures. In accordance with established practice, the Parliament asked the Government to count these signatures and the government provided a report showing that a statistical error of 2.6% found that 498 545 authentic signatures of voters were collected, i.e. that more than 10% of the total number of voters enrolled in the Republic of Croatia were collected. In accordance with the verification carried out so, the conditions for the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to comply with the provision of Article 60 above have been met. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall prepare proposals for appropriate acts and the same instructions to the Assembly for further action. With regard to this decision, they may state that the Committee considers that there are serious doubts about the constitutionality and eligibility of the proposed referendum issue, i.e. there are serious doubts whether its adoption would be contrary to the Constitution and the law of the European Union, which is the basis of Article 145, as I have already mentioned to the Authority in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. As in the case of a previous referendum and here, we must start from what is the actual content of the referendum issue. The actual content of the referendum issue is not highways. The referendum may be called a referendum on highways, it may be presented to the public and that the signatures are collected to oppose the monetization of highways, but when the referendum issues are read, it is evident that it does not mention highways, but in a concrete case, it is a referendum issue that goes towards prohibiting any part of the 27030 km of public roads in the Republic of Croatia from concessions for public services. The adoption of such a referendum issue on no public road in Croatia or on any part of such roads could create a concession for public services, and public services, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Croatian legal order and legal order of the European Union, are telecommunications services, advertising services, waste water and waste management services, follow-up and auxiliary transport services, as well as those related to trade and catering. The absoluteity of the ban on the application of a legal and allowed institute to all situations on all public roads in Croatia raises in itself the constitutionality and eligibility of the referendum issue. The absoluteity of the ban leads to exclusion, and given that the applicants in the explanation do not explain why they want to ban all concessions on all public roads, for all public services in the Republic of Croatia, and not just to prohibit the monetisation of highways listed in the referendum title, this prohibition does not go beyond the test of proportionality that I was talking about earlier. The referendum issue is questionable for other reasons. In particular, it is questionable from the point of view of freedom of entrepreneurship and competition protected by the Constitution and legal acts of the European Union, freedom of movement of services and the establishment of a business creation and the procedure of excessive deficit which is particularly current in Croatia today. So as I said, when we are discussing this decision we cannot go from its title, we cannot think only about highways, we must talk about its content, and these are all public roads in the Republic of Croatia and all services on them. We can't go from making this decision just to monetizing the highways. It is explicitly stated in the decision: all public roads in the Republic of Croatia are prohibited in public service concessions. It's the contents of the referendum issue. It is precisely because of such content that the consequences of this law are clear and I would dare say dramatic. The proposed law would lead to significant market restrictions as it stipulates that a whole series of activities related to all public roads can be carried out almost exclusively through public services of public institutions and companies owned by public authorities, such as the Croatian highways, the Rijeka-Zagreb highways, Croatian roads, the County Road Administrations, etc. By excluding a series of market activities, market and entrepreneurial freedom are limited, I will repeat the declared Constitution and the legal order of the EU. However, the question is whether such public road management is rational, or whether it can be justified from an economic point of view. Although it is the responsibility of the Constitutional Committee to question constitutionality when proposing such a decision to the Croatian Parliament, we could not ignore the fact that, for example, the assessment of the total income of HAC in 2014 was only about a billion and 500 million kuna while the total expenditures for regular maintenance and road management amounted to 710 thousand kuna and the difference between income and regular expenditure amounted to slightly less than 800 million kuna. A similar distribution of income and expenditure is expected in the period until 2017. At first sight of this figure and act well, but at the same time in the period from 2014 to 2017, credit liabilities are due, amounting to 16 billion 262 million kuna, and it is clear that from the estimated difference between income and expenditure of the circus 3 billion and 200 million kuna will not be possible to pay them without increasing the separation from the state budget, i.e. without increasing state support. As a result, Croatia will be increasingly more and more difficult to justify the existing model of financing public road management and maintenance in light of the prescribed conditions for protecting the competition at which the EU insists. Our decisions since joining the EU are no longer only valued by our standards, but also by EU standards. The EU takes great care of the behaviour of Member States when public roads and tolls are at stake is visible from the EU's behaviour towards Slovenia when it introduces vinjets that have been discriminated against by citizens of other countries, including the Republic of Croatia, which was not yet a member of the EU at the time, that is to say, when it is trying to introduce tolls on highways that would only be paid by foreign citizens. We cannot ask that our projects in road construction, such as the Peljega Bridge, are being financed at the same time, and that we do not want to agree to the rules that the Union long ago adopted. Proposers say when they talk about highways it's a natural monopoly, that there are no markets and competitions in the case of roads. But then they forget that the internal market today is not only the Croatian market, the internal market is today under the EU Treaty on the Functioning of the EU the entire EU market. Our roads cannot then be observed beyond that context. In particular, subsidies to Croatian highways violate the competition and this competition between Croatian and Slovenian, Italian, Hungarian highways that are all competing to attract traffic and earn the traffic. All rules adopted by Member States having direct or indirect restrictive effect on freedom of movement in the common market shall be subject to strict control of compliance with EU law. Such rules shall be notified by the European Commission when they are adopted. Note, we are still in a transitional period when we are subject to stricter measures than other Member States, so the sanctioning of the Republic of Croatia for breach of EU law does not yet require a long-standing procedure before the European Court of Justice. The Commission can do this on its own. As long as we are members of the EU, we must accept that we no longer have the full freedom to make regulations in certain areas, and the area of transport is one of those. That's what I was talking about this morning when I was talking about the provision of Article 3 of the proposed Law on Referendum. We don't have to put it in the law, we can pretend that such a provision doesn't exist, but it's there. The Republic of Croatia is finally in the process of excessive budget deficits. The total liabilities on the basis of the credit obligations undertaken to build road infrastructure as well as the guarantees of the day by the State have a significant impact on the achievement of the obligations arising from the excessive deficit procedure. The measure of banning public service concessions on public roads will make it significantly difficult and may also make it impossible to achieve the objectives of a balanced budgetary policy that we are obliged to achieve. In this context, the ban puts Croatia at risk of sanctions for failing to meet the objectives set before us by the European Union, and sanctions would be contained in the suspension of the use of EU funds. I mentioned before the Peljek Bridge, which we hope to finance from such funds. I am of the opinion that the Constitutional Court must also be guided by this fact when deciding on the authorisation of the referendum issue in question. Finally, as regards both referendums, the value base of the Republic of Croatia, such as entrepreneurship and market freedom and EU-based values, such as freedom of movement of people, goods, services and capital, cannot be contested by law. Such a restriction cannot be avoided by calling a referendum, and since there are doubts about constitutionality, both proposed referendum issues are proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament to be in accordance with Article 95. The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court shall be addressed by the same request to determine whether both these referenda issues are in accordance with the Constitution and whether the assumptions set out in Article 87 to the third Constitution for the opening of the State referendum have been met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101642	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First call from a colleague, Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101643	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In this part of the referendum on monetization, you are polymizing with the law, amendments and additions of the Law on Public Roads, which is the content of the referendum issue. If the initiative "We do not give our highway" had not opened and raised the question of the Croatian Parliament referendum and parliamentary representatives on this topic until the referendum was called up, we would not have discussed it at all. Shouldn't I tell you normally and what a parliamentary practice it would be if the Croatian Government, or the Resort Ministry, were moving into this project worth more than 50 billion kuna without any debate in the Croatian Parliament. Is it natural that the Croatian Parliament does not discuss the concession of Croatian highways or rather the most qualitative transport system in Croatia? And instead of us as parliamentary representatives thanking the initiative that allowed us to discuss this at all and to discuss it in terms of scale, not just whether this is a constitutional or not constitutional category, is it possible to discuss this in a referendum. It is good that we in the Croatian Parliament can discuss it and see whether it is financially for the Republic of Croatia or not. Whether this kind of procedure for the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia is good or not. That's what Mr. coat of arms is about. So, first of all, we were supposed to be representatives of the Croatian Parliament to discuss this, familiarize ourselves with the contract, with all that the Croatian government is doing, and not that in such an indirect way thanks to an initiative that went into the collection of signatures, we can discuss it in this way in the Assembly at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101644	Thank you. We have a colleague Bačić's reply to the replica, a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101645	Thank you, Vice President. So, what are we going to discuss, fellow Bacic, rather than what is the contents of the referendum issue? If the content of the referendum issue is the addition of the Road Law, then I cannot discuss railways. I mean, I don't understand. Now, about all this other stuff. There is one institute, provided for in Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and it comes from the Constitution and is called impelation. You are as an opposition authorized, and for that you need not only a dozen MPs, which you have in your club, you are authorized to submit an interpretation of the government's work. The government must show itself about your interpretation and then after that we must discuss within the deadlines foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, which are 15 + 15 days. We'll discuss it here in 30 days. But no, since the beginning of this call, you have not submitted any interpretations. Why? That's what you'll answer to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101646	Thank you. Replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101647	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Grbin, watch the construction of highways in Croatia has its own history and you simply cannot skip that history. Among other things, the concept that such a financial decision has made and the propos of this coalition majority that is now in power is said to be allocated to the construction of highways by 60 liras from the price of gasoline. Dear Grbin, highways are a key tourist infrastructure project, key. Croatia wouldn't have had nearly this tourist season if it didn't have highways. That's a fact. And if this infrastructure project helps someone to achieve a result in another economic branch, then it is their turn to participate in keeping it together. When you take 60 limes, that's a billion and 500 million. The revenue from the tolls of Croatian roads and highway Zagreb-Rijeka is over 2 billion. That's 3.5 billion kuna. Regular maintenance costs are 700 million. So it's 2 billion and 800 million. With this amount with a loan reprogramme at the moment when Croatia is an EU member of Croatia's highway in the next 15 years, they can finance their commitments without a problem. That's a fact. But I also do not dispute your legitimate right, you are in power to propose this. Only things like this can't be decided without a special law to be discussed in this House of Commons. These are your smarter predecessors in 2002, despite the fact that I personally disagreed with that, INA and HEP Privatisation Act. Well, at least there was a debate here. However, here you have, in the light of this conclusion on the referendum issue, brought forth a series of things which unfortunately do not stand. It would be better if your colleagues gave you a little better financial support as far as Croatian highways are concerned. One more sentence. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] After ESA 2010. Croatian highways were not allowed to enter the government debt deficit at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101648	Thank you. Replication response, colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101649	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you know very well that some of these funds from the excise duty are also allocated to the Croatian railways. And just this morning you stood behind this pay phone and called this government not to invest enough funds in the Croatian railways. But from morning till night, forget what was said before. But let's talk about other things. First, you have very interestingly summed up the revenues of the Croatian highways and the Rijeka-Zagreb highways, and then you agreed with the costs of only Croatian highways and you accuse me of not knowing the figures. 710 million kuna is the cost of only Croatian highways. The Rijeka-Zagreb highway is another institution. Furthermore, there is something called unauthorized state support. We can enter the system of illegal state aid but then we as a state will also have sanctions for it from European funds, and Croatian highways and highways Rijeka-Zagreb will then have to return these illegal state support with interest, and then I don't want to know where we are. And for the end of the issue of giving highways in concessions is something that was not launched in 2014, not launched in 2013, it was launched in April 2010. I really can't remember now whether you were still the finance minister or had already replaced you, but the government launched a concession procedure for highways in its economic crisis guidelines back in April 2010. And your colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, who is not here right now, and I am very sorry about that, taught me that we have made a huge mistake because we have started to give all the highways in a concession and he considered and advocated it and such a project was left in the government drawers in the concession should only give profitable directions, and this is the former Ljubljana-Zagreb-Belgrade Highway and leave everyone else on the burden of taxpayers and citizens of the Republic. In 2010, in April for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this was a good project, in 2015, in which today, February for HDZ, this is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101650	Thank you. You've announced your colleague Shuker's violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101651	Yes, article 238 was injured because a colleague of the Grbin em's is telling a false em' of this now I'm going to quote you right here "dumbs and insults other MPs" because it presents incorrect facts. So, you were talking about a programme of economic recovery where
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101652	You can't argue with a fellow Shucker on an injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101653	How can I not?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101654	You can't. On the breach of the Rules of Procedure you can
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101655	So I can tell you where he hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101656	What? Well, you said where he hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101657	In the 4th month 2010, I was still Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister and co-ordinator of the Economic Recovery Programme. But what my colleague Grbin is saying about the highway concession isn't true. And you can read that and you'll see how misinformed you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101658	Thank you very much. Comrade Shucker, this is the second time today in the debate to abuse the Rules of Procedure or the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't do this any further. You've been signed up for debate and I believe you'll point out through your debate at the hearing of colleagues of the coat of arms. The next replica is counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101659	JOSIP BORIC: Thank you very much, Vice President. So, fellow coat of arms, you went out to the pay phone again and you were telling lies. So you put yourself in a head story after a few months, you're trying to find a way out of this situation where you've been led by an initiative to monetize the highway, and you're simply looking for time, you don't want this referendum to happen before the election. And you have to say that clearly, not make up reasons why something would be wrong. As far as impelation is concerned, most of you will be voted by the people, you will see how you will end up in the elections, they will interpret you very quickly because I say again you are speaking lies, and you said that the proposed referendum issue proposes a complete ban on giving all public roads to the Republic of Croatia in a concession for public services. Which is not true, because on public roads which are not highways or certain road facilities on the state road or on state, county and local roads it is now forbidden to base concessions for public services, conditions for carrying out accompanying activities in the concession regime remain unchanged, only the type of concession that can be established is changed. Finally, the performance of the accompanying activities is regulated by the Regulation, rather than by concession. So you asked to be found in that text of the bill, because that was the question of the referendum, finds the wrong point to call on it and get time in the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court will make this very clear and will allow a question like this for sure, and as there are enough signatures, we will go to the referendum only a matter of time. Because when this question is put into the Law on Roads, it perfectly claims what it is intended for people to do. Croatia should not concession its highways, and we will later explain on behalf of the club why and what the reasons are. You're deluding the people again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101660	Thank you. A colleague's response to the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101661	So that I do not lead the people astray, I will read, in the Law on the Roads, which is the proposal of the initiative, a new item is added, a new item: "The built public roads are the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia and it is forbidden to give them in a concession for public services." My dear colleague, I've polluted with that sentence that's listed in the request for a national referendum on the regulation of the state highway issue in concession and about nothing else. This further develops this norm, however, the standard set out here is forbidden to give public roads in concessions for public services. Public roads in the Republic of Croatia have 27 030 kilometers. No part of the public road, and the public road includes a lane around the road, according to this, must be given in concessions. I didn't make it up, I didn't write it. And now as far as the delay is concerned, this referendum, as I have already told you, was handed over the signatures in November last year, as soon as the request came to the Parliament, the Parliament forwarded it to the Government, and after that, we held a committee session in January, and today we debated in February. On Friday we will make a decision we will go to the Constitutional Court, for your information the Constitutional Court must make a decision within 30 days. From Friday until the end of March, we will know the answer to this referendum question and know whether or not the referendum will be. And after that comes, the Croatian Parliament will decide to call a referendum. There's no one to stall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101662	Next replica, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101663	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Grbin, as a consequence of the proposal for a referendum that we discussed today, are actually these initiatives that happened in the Republic of Croatia just through the unhappiness of the Croatian government and the fear of all those who might be affected. You know that one referendum that was successful, the other that was not, did not collect a sufficient number of signatures and now these two initiatives to carry out accompanying and unfounded activities in the public sector, which is an issue of giving Croatian highways in concessions. There is almost no social group in the Republic of Croatia with which this government did not wage war or in any way diminish. So you are now, in fact, explaining the proposals of this decision very momentarily speaking about what they are administrative technical services as well as what they are public roads. In any way, to defuse these two initiatives, and you know very well why they're bringing them, and what are the unions and these people fighting for? Of course, you didn't agree to certain arrangements, and now there's been a situation where you buy time so that these two referendums don't actually happen until the election itself. Remember only about outsourcing what was actually happening from the minister herself, how she explained it, how she withdrew her decisions and what she was talking about afterwards. So I would tell you in the end, actually, that this government needs something, you've housed this government, so you've tried outsourcing-ats, and in the end, the citizens will actually spin you. Here's what's gonna happen to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101664	A response to the replica of a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101665	Thank you, colleagues. You know that there are a whole series of jobs, for example, in your community that you can't do because it's simply not realistic that in one small municipality, I don't know if you have a dozen employees, if you're going to have an auto mechanic, if you're going to have a plumber, whether you're going to have a computer servicer, whether you're going to have a lawyer, etc. That's not rational because you're small enough for that. And you are then engaged in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act to provide you with these services and to pay for them a market price. Why? Because it's cheaper than hiring a person who will be in a permanent or occasional working relationship in your community to do those jobs. By adopting this referendum issue, it would not be possible to pass a request, i.e. by adopting a Law on the implementation of accompanying and non-basic activities in the public sector. Every public institution, every smallest university centre, every smallest nature park, every least commercial company owned by the Republic of Croatia should all be performed by public sector employees, or employees of that company, because this is not allowed to entrust any business to someone who is not employed in the public service. That's what it says here. This is not a referendum on outsorcing, if the referendum were to be banned from a concrete measure proposed by the government then we could debate it, however not. It prohibits everyone, but every involvement of external associates to provide accompanying services.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101666	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101667	Thank you very much. My colleague Grbin, with your legal explanation, I will not pollomise even though there is no reason to refer to the assessment of the constitutionality when all the conditions for calling the referendum have been met and why not respect the will of most people. But I won't even comment on your economic justification for giving concessions to the freeways in a concession because I've never been rude before, so I won't comment on that either. You're treating the public well as marketable, I can't figure it out at all. Public well-being has not been built, none has been built or maintained on the economic account. Let's see if you can figure it out for once. The theatre, museum, highway, hospital, is neither built nor held on an economic account. It's not a market category, you can't talk to a hospital as a market facility, a school. I've recently been operated on in a private clinic, sterilization of instruments doesn't work from outside, doesn't clean the operating room of a company that organisedly cleans up some other plants or something because I would never agree to operate in such a way and let alone in another and larger hospital. But you would have all the market, let go of all the market, so that market has led us to have 1.10 kuna per highway and those concessions on the route Zagreb-Macelj and these roads that were built and which we did not give in a concession of 0,40 kuna, or 0.42 kuna per km. More than twice as expensive. And what's your bill, what would be the price in the years of concession if you go to the concession, nobody mentions it? The explanation is, so I believe the privateer has no interest in increasing the price. And on that belief you base everything. But you can't talk like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101668	Answer to the replica of my colleague, Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101669	Dear colleague, when we talk about the market and the availability of public goods and state property, then we talk about options, then we talk about options that are most favourable to the state. Both of these referendums are not intended to direct the government in one direction or another. They aim to permanently, forever prohibit and prevent any Government of the Republic of Croatia from using certain instruments and even when these instruments are most favourable. That's the proposal for these two referendums. And now that we're talking about public good and market availability to the public. The coast is public well. If we accept what you have now proposed all the hotels that are given in the concession and built on this basis on public goods on the basis of citizens' rights, all the catering facilities that are marketable and located on this public, maritime good, all the gats and everything else used for the purpose of achieving income should be banned. In fact, I'm listening to you today, members of your party, and you're just confirming what I've always known, you're deep, deep and intimate against the market because you don't understand it. Based on your policy, it's supposed to be a social market economy. The social market economy requires consideration of all options, demands that each of them be examined and that, on the basis of such consideration, we make the best decision. And you say no here today, let's ban some whether or not such a ban is allowed. Okay, let's go ban them, but will you then explain tomorrow to the European Commission why we have to ban something and explain to Croatian citizens why we will get a sentence for something that anyone who has read two European Court rulings knows is not allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101670	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101671	Comrade coat of arms, you have worked very hard to explain what you have been talking about. You're talking about a referendum and a referendum issue that is so banal, simple and acceptable to many citizens, not to tell hundreds of thousands of citizens who signed it. What is disputed in the built public roads are the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia and it is forbidden to give them in a concession for public services? What's so controversial that we should go for questioning? The dispute between you and the government is something else because the election income of the highway and the fuel prices they had deployed in a completely different way and thus cut them off. We talked here just before the whole day about the Law of Referendum, obviously it wants to prevent future initiatives like this so that the people can be made known about the way it will be and how it will be. If something was to be submitted for review, it might be that unfortunate strategic investment law that we've brought here where it's given to some investor who'll show up who knows when to be able to build his strategic investment past the spatial urban plans of local self-government units, regional self-government. That's what we're talking about. So all you're defending, today it explains to us that we're getting time, and now I'm getting more and more convinced that Mr. Lesar was right about that date on the 17.5th, that you want to win that part of the time by the 5th month until that election. So the original income of the highway you took from them, arranged in a completely different way, you didn't give the substitutions because these are the people who started this initiative and you couldn't do it past them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101672	Thank you. Answer me, comrade coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101673	You know, that income we're talking about, that excise money didn't go for another 10 hands in the tunnels. That money went to state roads, for example only thanks to these excise duties my Pula received a circular current entering the city and a modern four-way road from that roundabout to the highway. It's a state road. This money goes to state roads. This money will be made possible with money from European funds to build a mainland-Ciovo bridge. It's money that went to state roads, which allows us to work daily on a project of improvement of state roads that have been completely neglected. Because what happened, we've been overrun with our highways, we've got miles per head of highway residents more than Austria, Germany, Italy, Norway. I think only Canada and Luxembourg have more miles of highways per capita than we do. Is this a rational resource management? It is rational that Austria is probably so poor that it does not build a highway on the road from Vienna to Prague, and Croatia has dragged it to every village. Great, we're sure about that, it's great, they look beautiful, but now they're here to collect. ... We simply can't finance from our incomes anymore. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This country is looking for methods of funding. One of the methods offered is monetization. I don't know if she'll succeed, I don't know if we'll get a favourable offer, but with this referendum, this proposal is not just about that monetization, but every concession for public services on every public road forbids it. Well, that's not allowed. If the referendum question had been said, it was forbidden to monetize, then I wouldn't have anything to write, but it doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101674	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101675	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Grbin, indeed of your legal proposals n in just these few days, but in the past time period, all of us are in pain here, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because you are already insulting and saying that we don't know anything here, and your prime minister keeps saying something, so give us something, we'll accept it if it's okay. So you will not accept and you are already saying that the referendum is counter-constitutional, and I will only remind you that the Constitutional Court has already made many of your decisions that you have made by force and to the harm of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that you have not regained consciousness that this legal path that you are leading is incorrect and that it is not good. And now you're doing it for roads that are invested in 45 to 50 billion kunas in Croatia you just want to leave overnight to someone to know about it, and we, as in Croatia, are silly and we don't know how to run something we know how to build. So what do you think these people who work in the Croatian highways don't know how to manage, and just before there were words that we have 3.5 billion total revenues, so why didn't you say that we need to restructure Croatian roads and see where we can make additional savings and thus continue to manage and manage our highways? You rebelled against the Peljega Bridge when HDZ and the past government proposed, you did everything to prove that it was not a good project, and now look at the wonders again, this same project will be built but we've been late for three years. Well, of course, there are the European Union funds that we can build with, and we're fighting over whether the referendum is good, right, but we're saying it's anti-constitutional, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101676	Thank you very much. Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101677	Maybe you didn't get me very well. I didn't say that we disagree with your proposals, but I made it very clear that when you're in opposition, when I say you in HDZ disagree with what you did and what you said while you were in power. Before my colleague Shuker corrected me, it was a 2010 economic recovery program, they weren't guidelines, I apologize. In addition to the concession, they predicted outsourcing, both measures. As I said, my colleague Milosevic told me several times that the concession program was left in his desk drawers when he left. This is not a project invented by a government with which someone wants to fill their pockets, this is a project that is good for the Republic of Croatia and you knew it while you were in power. You weren't able to spend it, I don't know why, maybe you didn't have time, maybe you didn't want to, but now we're spending it. However, if the Constitutional Court says that this referendum is allowed and if citizens vote this law we will not implement it, but let us ask an institution which you obviously believe to say whether this is laughing or not, but not based on the impression that it is good or bad but on the basis of the right. And when we talk about the right, we talk about the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the legal order of the European Union. Let the Constitutional Court assess whether this is what we should or should not do. I don't ask any more of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101678	Thank you, too. After the opening presentation, the replica and the reply to the replica, we open the debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101679	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the debate is united, I assume we have 20 minutes on behalf of the clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101680	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101681	Thank you very much. I'm looking at a traffic light, so I'm reacting right now. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Invader Batinić: You are right.]] So, I remember many who were panicking and shouting in Croatia is a referendum possible in everything. Anti-reference hysteria. Now, today or the day that we discussed the Law on Referendum and these two decisions actually turns out that in Croatia the referendum is not possible about anything, i.e. that only one approved by Zoran Milanovic is possible. And these are facts and I will not enter into economic debates about the justification of one and another model of concessioning highways and outsourcings. I share this debate with my colleague Novak. I'll talk about the outsourcing and the motion decision. The Croatian Labour Club does not consider that the Assembly must go to the Constitutional Court because it is convinced that the issue is against constitutionality and that is why I was also on the board against such a decision if I am not mistaken, and we have given four amendments to the proposed decision on this decision in the Croatian Parliament. And if there is a minimum doubt about the constitutionality of the issue, the constitutional court's inquiry will only be supported if all four amendments are accepted. Otherwise we'll vote against it. The first amendment refers to point 1.1 of the reasoning which, as if written by Comrade Vishinski, states that it is obvious that the initiators of the referendum were taking the stand by individual members of the government and on this basis initiated the signing of the signature, seeking signatures for the referendum. All that this is true and they have the right to do so is not responding to the truth, because if I am not mistaken on 17 February 2014, that model is Deputy Prime Minister Opačić, at an official meeting, presented the government model to which it will surely go, and it is also an integral part of the project plan to implement long-term fiscal consolidation measures for the period of fourteenth, sixteenth, adopted by the Government on 27 December 2013. Therefore, the Constitutional Committee first claimed that the initiators had led exclusively to the basis of some public advances by certain members of the government. However, we ask that item in point 1.1 be deleted because it is incorrect, false. The second amendment also refers to point 1.1, paragraph yen, two, three, four, which reads: "Although the government of the Republic of Croatia has already announced at the time of the signing that it is giving up the outsourcing model." Now, I haven't found such a decision from the government anywhere, not in the People's Newspaper, not on the websites. But how the government could announce that she was giving up something that she did not even announce in the first sentence, but were merely members of the government in public. So, contradictory passports. And that part must be left out of the reasoning of the decision, because there is no government decision to introduce or give up the citizens of the initiators again have the legal right to raise such a referendum issue because citizens do not have to be offered by any act, decision, law of the executive or representative authority for the referendum initiative. The third amendment refers to point 1.2 of the pages are not numbered, so I will explain, which is the part that says that if the proposed referendum issue were adopted in the Republic of Croatia, a law prohibiting the state from using any auxiliary services outside, such as service of computer equipment, telephones, copying, copying or fax devices, repairing motor vehicles, transportation of persons. I'm sorry that Peja Grbin didn't write in here painting buildings, humming buildings, changing brushes, cleaning septic pits. Let's just say these are all the jobs the state administration needs, but it's not done by public administration employees, the state administration, but by outside services as it has been. And then it ends that passport. 24 years after the adoption of the first democratic constitution of the Republic of Croatia and exiting the socialist social order can be performed exclusively by public sector employees. What does this structure mean? It means that even if the Parliament accepts such a paragraph to remain, the holders of the referendum initiative advocate to return or introduce a totalitarian dictatorial regime because it calls for the first democratic constitution. And therefore, if this issue were accidentally accepted, Croatia would return to the totalitarian or dictatorial regime. This is offensive to every man in Croatia, to anyone who signed the initiative, and to those who implemented the initiative. And that complete passport must be out of the question, because such a thing Parliament cannot write and send to the Constitutional Court as its position. The fourth applies to point 1.2 again in the section calling for a decision of the Constitutional Court of 12.8.2014 which, in its own right, said that any future referendum initiative must be reasoned. It then states that it is clear from the above that, in the present request of the referendum issue, there is no explanation or detailed representation of the facts and circumstances, etc. The author of this pamphlet accurately quoted the Constitutional Court's decision, but he made one big failure. The Constitutional Court's decision came from 12.8 last year, and the signatures for this referendum initiative in the Assembly have been submitted 16.7. Therefore, almost a month before and she did, the Constitutional Court decision cannot be applied in any way to a concrete referendum initiative and the whole paragraph of the reasoning must simply be left out because, otherwise, the Parliament would have come to the conclusion that the authors of the referendum initiative had to respect the Constitutional Court's decision made in the 7th month. And you'll probably agree with me that not even Superman or Nostradamus, so a colleague, not even Nostradamus could do it. And on the second part of my colleague Novak's theme, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101682	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the second part of the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101683	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and distinguished guests at the gallery. Well, one of my predecessors mentioned that this House would not even have the opportunity to discuss this subject, the monetization of Croatian highways in general, that we do not have a law on the availability and management of state property. Remember the case sometimes or we live it today when INA was involved, then we passed a special law, and I think that's what my colleague mentioned earlier, a special law on the privatisation of INA. So then we had HEP where the law was even withdrawn, or put out of force. Now we have here a phenomenal decision, or law, that has been made thanks to you that has been agreed or decided not to even have the right to discuss it in this House, even if we are to be honest, so it would be humiliating for me to raise my hand to take away my right to discuss something. So that he wouldn't accidentally say something clever that the billmaker or whoever did this didn't notice, he didn't see or that's the opposite effect. In any case, as counterpart Lesar said, we will reject, or be against this proposal, the decision of the board and I believe that there is no point at all, and there is no need to go before the Constitutional Court. Why does the will of the citizens, the will of the people, and the referendum not be called? For what? For buying time. And regardless of what counterpart Grbin explained that it was not about buying time because the motion for a decision is referred to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court must make a decision within 30 days. And then what? Is there a deadline behind that? Is there a deadline that binds this House when it will call a referendum? He's not anywhere. And it's that way of buying time. But no, we pretend to be ignorant, so as the supreme lawyer of this House, we don't understand what the catch is. And on this proposal for a decision we've also tabled four amendments, but I need some, although you've already got them all in front of you, but I need some and a little extra to describe the situation as faithful as possible. So let's say the Proposer says that at the very beginning he calls for the difference between the title of the claim and its contents. And the title of the request is "Requirement for State Referendum." And what's wrong with what's written in the text? No, but the promoter took advantage of something completely different, pulled out of context, and it suits him. The whole proposal proposed by the Committee is actually suggested by the Constitutional Court and is expected in some way to affect the final decision. It also goes out a lot, so I'm going to say the false data, and here's my colleague, Boric, quoted one of them, among other things, as referring to changes to the 2011 Law, which actually means that we're practically not changing anything, and so far it's been the same. It is mentioned here and the instructions of the Constitutional Court. But the Constitutional Court's instructions say that when a request is submitted, there must be an explanation. And that's what the proposer did. But it is disputed and is said to be on the move, which does not stand. But it is also stated in these amendments if, and we believe they will not be accepted, we cannot give, support such a decision. On the other hand, it is disputed that the referendum issue affects the issue. But the point is that this is an amendment to the law and beware now that the Proposer of this decision contests any influence on any law at all, not just this Law of the Roads but any one, because it turns out that no referendum can affect and ask any law question. Which we also know very well that it doesn't stand. About funding, since several economists have already spoken here, so I'm not going to get involved in that part, but there's also one of our amendments, but I'm going to take this opportunity to remind you of a point if I'm not mistaken in the existing consolidated agenda item 17. Annual State aid report. So here it says that among other things, the investment of entrepreneurs in this particular case I'm reading, there are several of them, the investment of ARZ d.d. entrepreneurs. in the construction and maintenance of state roads of general interest to the Republic of Croatia, and is the entrepreneur of ARZ d.d. in charge of public road management as a general good which is open to all users potential and present under equal conditions. It means that what the decision-makers say just doesn't stand. And in the end, our last amendment refers to excessive duty, but since our economists have explained it too, I don't see the need for me to talk about it any more because I wouldn't have thought of putting myself in that rank of yours. But the fact is that the complete content of this motion decision is suggested by the Constitutional Court and in some ways they are valued even by this final act stating what we are going to do if you as the Constitutional Court do not decide what we say? What I think has gone beyond the limits of nice behavior, I'll call it that. I must also refer to the opening statement of my colleagues, when he found that the proposal of both of these referendums was actually aimed at blocking the state in some particular moves, in some particular intentions. I strongly advocate that these two referendums succeed and block but not the state, but those who at this time run the state in this way. It is evident that everything is being sold out and filled with holes in the state budget, and as far as the goal is concerned, has raised the question of what is the goal of this government, which should be the goal then I must say that the goal should primarily protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and national interest. And I'm afraid they're not handling it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101684	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have registered six replica requests for your presentation. Let's get this straight. Honorable representative Branko Bacic is the first replica. Thank you too, dear colleague. We have registered six replica requests for your presentation. Let's get this straight. Honorable representative Branko Bacic is the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101687	Thank you very much. Well, we absolutely agree that basically the biggest problem was when we adopted this Parliament's Law on State Property Management. That's when we practically, we're all MPs, but we know who made that decision, whose hands practically took away the opportunity to discuss all the important issues, that all the important topics, that we should, that there's a more important topic than the whole state highway tomorrow will be, remember the debate, we had a debate about the Law on Railways when I warned you about it, is it ambiguously written what the author thinks? And it'll all be brought by one circle of people. I last mentioned, probably on Brač, Hvar or somewhere five, six with a glass of wine will decide what is the future of this country, this people. There really isn't anywhere, there isn't anywhere, and even where the kings are, the sultans and they consult with some wider circle of people than those of ours do. I don't think this is really anywhere, and I agree absolutely with this one of yours, with your suggestion to put a moratorium on any decision regarding not only the highway, but even this first point around the outsorcing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101688	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is up to the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101689	Thank you very much. Col. Novak, when a concession law was discussed in this House, then the HDZ Club added an amendment to concessions on highways, water, forests, etc. can't be accessed without a special law to be discussed in this high house. The biggest problem with what the government is doing is they've been saying since the beginning that the only rescue for the state budget of highway concessions. And practically the government, with that, broke out a lot of hand tools and got into an unfavourable position. If Croatia's highways and highways Zagreb-Rijeka are owed at this time about 4.2 billion kuna and if we are supposed to receive 3 billion kunas for 30 or 40 years, then it means a billion and 200 million kuna for the next 20 or 30 years to pay interest to Croatian citizens. And why the next 20 or 30 years? As long as he does not enter the surplus at that time and does not start returning his loans until he can practically not return this loan that remains from the Croatian highway and the Zagreb-Rjeka highway. The second thing, by amending the Law on Public Roads and by taking those 40 limes to Croatian highways, Croatian highways have taken 2 billion kunas over the past 2 years. With the reprogramme of these loans with and longer manual and lower interest rates of the Croatian highway and highway Zagreb-Rjeka can credit themselves. The second thing, according to all European Union methodologies, a public undertaking owned by a state if it has over 50% of its income does not account for the general government deficit. Therefore, if Croatia's roads and highways have revenue of 2 billion kuna of 3, 3.5 billion kuna, then they are not the general government deficit and are being dealt with in another way. But I repeat, it is an important strategic, most important strategic infrastructure project of the Republic of Croatia and therefore must remain in the hands of Croatian... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101690	Thank you, dear fellow Shuker. Time's up. Honorable representative Mladen Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101691	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, I don't know what your mandate is in this House, but I'm sure you're not French and you're not naive. You've brought out a lot of economic parameters, arguments that should change this decision. And what do you think is important, that the economic account will prevail here? Maybe they will, but some other one, let's not be tied to these parameters that you pointed to. But you mentioned some of the previous discussions. Well, I'll remember one when a colleague from the Kukuriku coalition found that everything had to be privatized, that everything had to be subordinated to the free market because the state was a bad master, a bad employer. And then he realized everything he needed, the government chose such a path, everything should be given in private hands except forest and water. But if it's so good why not the woods and the water, he didn't answer that question. Because that's how some mantra from the outside, some top economic experts sitting out there in the white world said that that's how we learned that lesson and we repeat it as parrots no matter what day we convince ourselves, the practice of life convinces us it has nothing to do with brains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101692	Thank you too, dear colleague. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101693	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Novak, and I talked about the referendum a little while ago, so this is a clean decision that shows the strength of this government, which wants to show the Croatian people, by imposing its referendum, that the actual signatures mean nothing and that they want to change it by force. And once again, many of these very proposals have fallen in the Constitutional Court. But when we look at it all together, then we can see what the government's decision on polling stations has been made, now we have seen it the freshest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so where people are pushing in two places to actually go to vote. Now it's not enough that this 10% voter signature is enough that we have the same polling stations, or that the signatures can be collected in multiple places, now we're forcing them into the state administration. So we want to make it impossible for each individual person's opinion to express its will and support someone for the referendum. It simply goes down to the end, and this government simply applies force to it. When we speak and speak and you speak, and Croatia's forests will come in turn, and Croatian waters will come. If we're going back in time, this particular SDP government started to sell out to INA, 25+1 shares in 2001. Yes, if tomorrow it will be so then Croatia's water in this indifference, in this deficit with a great deal where we want to right through the sale or any kind of sale of our assets to solve its existing financial situation. But we need to restructure ourselves first of all, so if we sold or rented those roads tomorrow that we never had a deficit and we haven't done it yet and we haven't implemented those key reforms that have to be implemented in order to simply survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101694	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101695	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Lucic, you said at the beginning of your replica, these government signatures mean nothing. Not only does it not mean signatures to her, but this government has no trust in its own parliamentary deputies. Although when they suggest that it is now noon, now to make the proposal, I guarantee they have enough hands to vote that it is precisely noon. It's noon, too. But the fact that But the fact is that this law has distanced even its representatives from being able to discuss anything about it, although they don't discuss it anyway, but they wouldn't happen to come at that opportunity. [[5 is by noon.]] You were just setting up some more weight on the referendum and this debate today, but I'm going to repeat what I've been doing today to my colleagues, Lesar. You know, nothing is eternal, and now we've put things together the way we've set them up and we've made them exclusively according to the wishes and demands of a certain group of people. And what if, when they pass, maybe not these choices or some other one, what if you hit your head against the wall the one you put on yourself? When you find everything impossible for me, and I don't get through anything, and I've been on the agenda since 7 months 67 and I propose the law in the 7th month and I'm 67th on the agenda. You know why I'm not 68? Because there are no 68th points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101696	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101697	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Novak, you mentioned a lack of understanding. When someone runs out of arguments or doesn't have them at all, then access to insults, and that's the common practice of a kind of people. But it doesn't offend me, it doesn't bother me when I'm told that I don't understand what's against the economic profession, against economic logic and common sense. Only those three things tell me how I treat certain phenomena. Well, those three things set me up and that's what I think of the concessions of built highways. Bina Istria and concession Zagreb-Macelj has a double price per km than the Croatian highway. Zagreb-Macelj, the stage Istria from the budget returns the total VAT paid and even the difference for the lost profit is paid directly from the budget. What do you think the HAC would do if it had a double price, if the state would pay back the VAT and the difference in their business would be returned to them... so they wouldn't have any problems. Then one paradox that that concession produces, if you go halfway to Macelj and you go back in, then 14 or 18 kuna is cheaper, I'm not sure. It's nowhere in economic practice in the world. And then because of the price and the price and the paradoxes like that, the peddlers are heading because it's expensive on the highway and they've destroyed a completely master's road in two years, and then the state from its resources has restored that master road. That's how concessions work. Who wants to give highways built in concessions to both Croatia and their own people not to wish him no good but to despise him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101698	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101699	Comrade Maric, you denied yourself at one point, you said it was nowhere in the world and then you realized that there was one. Right, there's such a illogicality with us, I didn't know about it, but I'm not exactly going that way, but if I go, I'll know how to use this. I see here two colleagues of yours from your party who are on the Transport Committee. Have them tell you ever since we asked to be given an insight into the highway rental agreement. We didn't get it until today. A question was asked about three years ago by the thematic sessions of the Committee on Transport by segments in the portfolio. She was the one who honestly told me the shame of being there, shamed me for being what it looked like. You can ask your colleagues, after all, I've already been discussing it. The question has been asked when we had a presentation on what is going on in the monetization, the committee asked whether we would pay if the traffic is not as planned. Are we gonna pay for the concessionaire? I got the answer yes, later the journalists who were present asked me what he answered. No one alive understood what the minister had answered. No one's alive. But he cited an example of the lack of profitability of the highway and, as an example, took the Velika Gorica-Bushevec road. It's a road that drives from nowhere to nowhere, but it compared that traffic and that data was given as some relevant data. Not to say that that display that was 20 meters from us...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101700	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101701	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101702	My dear colleague, representative Gjurdzica Sumrak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101703	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Novak, I agree with you, so I would say in all parts, and especially what is offensive not only to us representatives in the Croatian Parliament but also to the Croatian people and doctors and professors and farmers, but also to the poor person who lives hard in this Croatia. All the important laws for them that should be are usually debated, here's half eight, someone's going to say so, but if it's some other law we're here about 11 hours, the public no more, the press no more, there's no report about it, there's dust in the eyes of the Croatian people. And the Croatian people they expect to protect their national interests. You talked about it. I can only say that if I were to protect this government's national interests then I wouldn't, in some way, throw out fog, use different English, Latin and all other expressions but use the Croatian literary language so that everyone in this Croatia understands it. And besides that, the thematic sessions in this assembly are sessions that need to be discussed about the white plague, which should also be talked about the exodus of young people. And besides this before that the law that was about the referendum, you know why, I was thinking, yes, it is now being prepared a referendum for the protection of the Croatian Adriatic and drilling. You know what they did, but the public doesn't know it. They've already given the company that's going to do it, the Spectrum company in the 7th month, with the fact that the strategic study wasn't even finished at all. We had a presentation thanks to our chairman of the Environmental Protection Committee. What we saw in that presentation is sad. and Croatia needs to know what is coming to it, and that law wants to ban a referendum on the protection of the sea, the Adriatic and tourism. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] That's why they do the law before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101704	Just one correction. When you see the signal still goes from the Croatian Parliament respected MPs. But the TV signal's going. Whoever takes it depends on your speech. Honorable representative Mladen Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101705	Mrs. twilight, I'm speaking to you. This does not depend on your speech or on my speech whether someone will watch that television signal but depends on its payment possibility whether you can make it possible to watch Maxtv. And believe me, with all those smart phones, most of them aren't in it, they don't have that option. You mentioned, it is a shame and a time to discuss, that the time to discuss, most often, the most important topics at this time. But I also don't know that I'm a representative of the ruling coalition and that I can't, that my party puts me in a situation that I can't discuss, but I have to come tomorrow among my fellow citizens to look them in the eye and say, and look, he told me that my boss is crazy and I don't agree with that, and this has nothing to do with smartness, but he told me my boss. So what will your parents tell you? Well, after all, your family, your friends, what's it gonna tell you? And that's why the opposition is working out the way it does regardless of the suggestion that you have the possibility of a press conference. But the press conference we know in whose hands the media is and we can't get into the media just when we want and when we have an attractive topic, so maybe, not maybe, but it's obvious that we're reaching out to the means we have, which is in the morning looking for a break when we explain all those life problems that are daily. Because not to be sixty-seven again, or to have no effect, when I come from sixty-seventh place, it's going to be for the next authorities, or I probably won't be sitting there. I probably won't be sitting there, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101706	No comment. We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Ivan Šuker or Josip Boric. It says Josip Boric first. Okay. Here you are on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative Ivan Shuker, the first part.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101707	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Many colleagues and colleagues, there are 18 of us and we are discussing extremely important issues. Well, frankly, by listening to the proponents' explanation, I think that the Government is not at all in the question of these referendum issues, but it is contentious that the referendum would be in fact a referendum on the work of this government. And that's the key question. With all the attention, the respect for those who have been collecting signatures, and I'm going to talk about this first part, the outsourcing has been approached by the proposer best seen in point 1.1, and now I'm going to quote. He says: "Although it is not explicitly stated in the request or in his explanation by the public advances of the organisational committee as well as other actors in the collection of support for this referendum initiative, it is evident that the referendum initiative in question is encouraged by the debate on whether it is necessary to implement the so-called ‘referendum initiative’. The Institute of Outsourcing on part of state and public sector employees. It is obvious, therefore, that the occasion for the referendum in question was a step forward by individual members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia." Look, this is the humiliation of all those who were in the rain, gathering signatures in the wind. However, this will no longer be possible under the new law, but will have to be followed and registered in the Offices of State Administration. And now look, if the government has stated in its key economic document that outsourcing is one of the five key measures for bringing public finances into order and that outsourcing is going to sting nearly a billion kunas, then this explanation of the motionor simply does not stand because the promoter did not read or obviously listen to what the Deputy Prime Minister was saying. And according to what the government proposed, it was not at all a part of the business that is in the jurisdiction of public and state administration, so that is, that is, that is, that is, it's some sort of activity, but the government said that it would practically give everything to someone else to do. But what was bothering me the whole time listening to these brilliant ideas of people from the government, you had the impression that someone long would do it, and they wouldn't charge for it. And that's the key to the whole story. Because if you say that people who definitely have the lowest salary are going to get a billion kunas, then you're wrong. The other thing, am I going to take just one example, are cleaning girls and janitors at primary school just cleaning girls and janitors or are down the other. So, we who went and ran the kids actually had kids at school, and eventually we were students. We certainly know it's something far more. Maybe somewhere in some school that cleaning lady hasn't been used for eight hours. Then it can be solved another way. Maybe she can go to another school to clean up the other four hours, but there's no way these things can be given to someone else without talking about this part of the medical department that requires a lot of professional knowledge, including cleaning. Because you are aware that, unfortunately, many of our fellow citizens have been suffering from that golden streptococa or as it is already called, as a consequence, here is a colleague, Grubisic, who can talk about it as a doctor, which is the consequence of certain things. You know perfectly well that it can't practically be eradicated if you don't reject all the noise and break it all down and go over and over again or whatever it is they're saying. But that's just what I'm saying, I'm not professional at it, I'm just saying it as an example that some things can't be done to everyone. So that's exactly why those who raised this referendum question went to it. 'Cause look, no one's in unions or anywhere so hard as to say that some hospital, some school or any public institution won't give a car to some car mechanic because that car goes to a service once or twice a year and a logical thing that they won't ask to hire an auto mechanic. Also, computer service, first and foremost some other parts, my colleague I will fight without worry at 10.00, but I will be stopped by someone outside. Also, not every school or every hospital needs masters who will maintain central heating and plumbers. So it's not about unions, but it's about what it's about. It's a few thousand jobs that are practically irreplaceable. Well, at this point in state administration in various ministries and some other institutions, there are jobs, just the ones that are being talked about here, which are being negotiated by someone else. And why is that? Well, because someone who runs that body estimates it's cheaper for him to take someone to do it two, three hours like this than to have someone employed for eight hours. And these are the facts and these facts cannot be escaped. Because it would be unfair if I were to speak here on behalf of the club and say that everything is ideal, nothing can be given but simply some things are cheaper and better given, but this is about one general attitude. And I repeat, and now I'm going to keep quoting the proposer. He said, although the Croatian government had already announced at the time of the signing that the abandonment of the proposed measure was very interesting, however, that these economic policy measures did not remove the out-of-out and did not remove the savings of a billion kuna but remained as a document. However, as the next measure appeared, the spin off or as it is called, so now it's probably then that those who were collecting signatures should cross-reference and put spin off. So if they had put spin off then they'd probably have to cross spin off in a month and put something third or fourth. So such a referendum question came out simply because the unions were protecting their rights. The HDZ Club, regardless of the proponent's explanation, cannot support such a decision because it is unfortunately neither explained on the basis of the fact that this referendum issue has occurred, and at least it would have been good if those government measures had been quoted as talking about the savings of a billion kuna. So remember, this was one of the key measures for reducing the expenditure side of the budget. So if that was brilliant in 2013 then I don't see why it wouldn't be genius in 2015. And we who were against it in 2013 against it are also 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101708	You've been waiting a long time, thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric, part two.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101709	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm really sorry that you hid this debate from the people because it's a good opportunity to discuss this issue and the people should hear what the Croatian Parliament has to say about it, but your thing. The government of the Republic of Croatia decided to give built highways in concession for 30 to 50 years. They elected advisers on 2 August 2012, and as the main goals of monetization, the government cited income from highway monetization to 3 billion euros, improving the overall performance of HAC and ARZ, enabling the Government to reroute the fuel charge of 60 lira per litre of fuel to other infrastructure projects. There's a few things I say here that I'm going to discuss and try to prove that the government is simply leading us in the wrong direction. That he's not telling the truth. The first thesis must be monetized by highways to reduce external debt. The revenues from monetisation according to the Government's claims were used to repay loans and loans taken to build highways, and with a state guarantee. The total external debt of the Republic of Croatia at the end of the second quarter of 2014, amounted to 46 billion euros, meaning around 106% of the GDP. If 2.5 billion euros were received from the monetisation and the money was fully used to repay HAC and ARZ loans, then the public debt would be reduced by 6% of GDP. So from 106 to 100%. This payment would pay about 60% of HAC and ARZ loans. So 40% of the current debt of these companies would remain unpaid and the state would be forced to pay them out of the state budget in the coming years. It's worth 1.7 billion euros. So gentlemen comrades, and if you monetize highways we're left with debts, that's the only fact. The revenue of 2.5 billion euros from the concession of highways to 40 years would only cost about 40% of their construction. The country's example of a concession for highway construction was mostly given to 30 years after which concessionaries returned built roads to management. So these concessionaries paid 100% of the value of road construction in 30 years while the concessionary of Croatian highways would pay about 40% of their value and get them to run for 40 years. This government has not offered clear and convincing answers to a number of questions, has not convinced anyone that an almost negligible reduction of external debt is an excuse for giving in a concession of such important resources as highways built and that is 40 years old. However, there are numerous indications that it is an economically and socially unjust or even harmful move that will have long-term adverse consequences for the Croatian economy and society. This move would result in a situation that could not be changed over the next 40 years. Due to the absence of any other reform, the effects of monetisation will be annulled in one fiscal year because the annual deficit level is almost equal to the amount of monetisation. So we're going to lose highways to 40 years for 1 year's deficit. Shouldn't a move like this be the last way out after everything else is done to reduce the deficit and public debt? This government does exactly the opposite. She didn't do anything to cut expenses, but that's why she's been concessioning highways for 40 years. In fact, public debt from the start of its mandate to the end of 2015 will increase by more than 145 billion kuna. Now, with the goal of reducing that increase by a week, highways will be given to 40 years. The question simply arises where did you spend 145 billion kunas past the original revenues of the budget? No one gives us an answer to that question. That's just seven values of monetization. The second thesis, HAC and ARZ are overindebted companies, I can no longer repay expensive loans, and there are no exits but monetize highways. The disputed claim is that HAC and ARZ simply can no longer repay their obligations and this is reportedly the main reason for monetisation with a reduction of public debt. The construction of the highway was based on borrowing, with revenues from the toll and charges from the fuel price of 60 rupees, in these revenues was based on the financial and credit capacity of these companies and rested the trust of the borrower to lend the loan. The HAC and ARZ shall have negative cash flows, i.e. they cannot pay off credit obligations independently by 2018. Refinancing is necessary during that period. However, in 2019 and beyond, companies make positive cash flows, so they are able to service their obligations, pay off interest and principals and then have surpluses. We also know that total loans have dropped below 100m euros in 2022, 2025 below 50m euros, 2027 below 10m euros. Therefore, because of the 5 years in which they have negative cash flows, the government will give highways in concessions even though all subsequent years make positive cash flows. What needs to be done is to move the burden from the next 5 years to 4, because in 2014 it was already done on the coming year. That's exactly what a concessionaire would do and make a profit. Positive cash flows from these two companies up to 2055, means 40 years of concessions under concession conditions published in the media are 116 billion kuna. This is therefore the difference between their expected income and expected expenditure. Therefore, we know that the situation of HAC and ARZ is in the medium- and long-term in no way unembarkable, although companies have won significant income surpluses since 2018. What is worrying, thoughtless and harmful is the fact that the HAC of a total of 60 liras of the fuel price has been seized from 40 lipes and targeted by roads and railways, HH infrastructure under the exception of strengthening their investment capacity. This directly deprived HAC of 880 million kuna per year and placed it in an impossible position with regard to financial functioning. This could be called the policy of the final act, intended to create an impossible scenario. The HAC has been taken out of funds, and now it's said HAC can't function. This significantly disrupted HAC’s liquidity and did not help those targeted by the funds much. What lenders can ask after such a move is perhaps the current payment of all loans. They were not asked anything during the move as they were clearly not asked anything in the event of concessioning i.e. the monetization of the highway. Third thesis, we need to monetize the highways to get the expensive loans back. What is also often heard from the government's representatives is that the former government has taken expensive loans and is therefore seeking to repay them from monetization as soon as possible. HAC and ARZ loans were mostly obtained from international financial institutions, EB, EBERD, CEB, IBERD and development banks. Loans are mostly long-term with a start of up to 5 years with very favourable conditions that can still be difficult to replace today. It may occur that the government would pay off favourable loans and then be in debt under worse conditions. Where's economic logic here? What kind of rational citizen of this country would treat his own finances like that? Paying off a favourable loan to raise more expensive ones for other needs? That the government will certainly raise them up by a speaking deficit of nearly 20 billion kuna. In fact, the resolute minister these days, commenting on the reprogramme as a solution to the problem, said that the re-programme or re-financing of loans would require a good will for lenders. We are the attitude that even more precisely monetization would require a good will for lenders. According to us, business monetization seems to see the government as the last straw of saving its disastrous economic and fiscal policy. Inaction in all other sectors wants to compensate for one single move. The worst move is certainly one time and very probably very harmful, so its effect cannot have positive effects on the Croatian economy and the budget but can only mean one short break. Questions that are being asked, and to which there is no answer and which should be. First, did the government really look at all possible alternatives to resolving the problem of paying off credit obligations created by highway construction? She hasn't shown us that yet. The second question is whether an adequate justification study has been developed to assess the justification of such a procedure, public interest, compliance with development plans, the impact on the budget simply does not know. Since the study maker has come to the price of monetization of highways and selecting the same as optimal alternatives, we don't know that either. What are the examples of countries that have monetized highways? And it's kept out of the public's hands, and we need to figure it out ourselves to find out their examples. Has the Government provided legal assumptions for the legal implementation of the concession process? Not according to us. Did the Government consider the risk of possible maturity of all credits on the charge due to its reckless moves of about 60 lips that were rerouted plus monetization i.e. concessions? Do they have a loaner's license? We don't know that either. Justification of the return of favourable loans and then borrowing under worse conditions, never proven. What about future toll prices and their impact on concessionaires' revenues and the cost of citizens and economies? There we can talk about a game where we no longer know what the rules will be. What about the restructuring of companies and how will it affect the future costs of concessionaires? Nobody explained it to us either. So we have a dozen questions that we hardly know anything about, almost completely non-transparent monetization or concessioning. What do we need to do? A new analysis of the alternatives leading to the achievement of the project's social economic objective needs to be made. In this case, it is with monetization you may know what securitisation offers, and certainly the state-owned highway remains with optimization of business and refinance of loans that are possible with historically low interest. The management rights on highways which are one of the most important national resources and assumptions of regional development are too important a question to be decided by several people, and especially without making a socio-economic analysis that needs to be seen the ratio of total social costs and benefits rather than only the short-term impact on public finances that are really questionable in the implementation of the monetisation. Reflecting on the elemental human logic, the question is, how is it that the future concessionaire is paid to the Republic of Croatia to pay a concession fee of up to 3 billion euros to which the government should repay the majority of HAC and ARZ's credit debt, to give up 60 liras of fuel prices, to charge the transaction up to 70% on the market, and to make a profit despite all this? Of course a concessionaire goes into business to make a profit, not lose. Croatia has all of this in addition to the 60 more limes we have, meaning 1.4 billion kuna does not pay for the process. That may be the basic question that we haven't heard the answer to all these days. The Croatian prime minister said they could be worth highways, that they could not be cost-effective highways that only drive three to four months. Is that what happens to the concessionaire? Maybe the concessionaire will bring some new traffic, maybe the concessionaire will actually lose, but I don't know yet, or is it worth it to him anyway? And that's the question. The exclusion which, with incompetence, failure to find and dissuasion, is a key constant of this government's implementation by monetisation, i.e. by selling highways, will lead to inconceivable economic and general social damage that can be measured in billions of euros. We see this decision as an attempt to buy time, although it is clear to all that the referendum will be. Instead of moratories, you move on and earn the people's initiative. The signature has enough and a referendum on marriage has shown that the issue does not have to be referred to the Constitutional Court and then you did not refer it and the referendum succeeded. Now you choose for the second time out of your own interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101710	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, has three replicas. Let's go in order, the distinguished representative of Gyurjitsumrak, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101711	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, you were talking about problems. Yeah, you were talking about the impression in the principle of this and the outsourcing and otherwise the law, you know best because you're there all the time how much this government has passed the law, just not only are they inconclusive, but when they're being warned about the indifference and things that aren't good, they still voted, and then they went to change it later because they're not the problem, they're now one, tomorrow the other, just to go through a little bit more of this time when they're going to go too. However, I have an impression as to this outsourcing that it was actually agreed. I don't mind a private initiative, of course. However, in these activities that you yourself listed, meaning in hospital cleaning activities, the school was employed somewhere by about 26 thousand employees. These employees in this way would lose their jobs immediately or after 5 years for sure. And now different research has been done and has really proved that saving the state from all of that is pretty good. So the savings aren't exactly there, but the quality level is bad. And that is why again, once again, I will see it, you are an economist and certainly think differently about some things, but if you are looking at the national and this way of testing hydrocarbons and the damage of the Croatian Adriatic and at all the damage that is done and the way it is done and the referendum that is announced about it, I think it's all talking about this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101712	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101713	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade twilight, if you pull the parallel between this and the recent DUDI decision to come out of your own space and rent a private space, then you're clear. Because if someone tells you they're going to rent their space and they're going to pay someone else a rent and it's going to go better that way. It's the same story with this outsourcing because it doesn't matter cleaning up the hospital, it doesn't matter how you take care of kids at school and clean up some office spaces where you have chairs, chairs, little dust and paper and here you have live people on the other side. However, even though it is difficult to swallow, one would swallow it if it were not one of the government's key measures to reduce deficits and reduce expenditure. And now you understand why the deficit of the state budget is not according to this methodology that the government has national but according to the ESA in 2010 and last year it was 17 billion. Because if in an inadequate way you're going to do something that can only be done with structural reforms, then you have the result as you have the result. However, in my view, the key explanation of this decision made by the applicant, which simply did not take into account everything that was going on. Well, at least if they'd accepted what it came for, which is what caused it and what it wanted to achieve, then probably the story would have been completely different. However, when you go in this way to prevent not a referendum so much about outsourcing but a referendum on this government because every referendum in the next, as long as the term of office of this government is going to be a referendum on the work of this government and not on the referendum issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101714	Dear colleague Branka Juričev-Martinchev, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101715	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, you've been talking about the crazyness of giving schools and hospitals to clean up privates, that there won't and can't be any more efficiency at cost reduction. I'd say there can only be far, far higher costs. So on the condition that, for example, a company specialising in these jobs is already registered, provided that employees have the same personal income and thus the same issuances for pension, health and other insurance should say that these companies will have to pay value added tax at the time of the invoice. They will have to pay taxes on the company, membership fees to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. If there is a tourist membership in our tourist resorts, a monumental rent if it is located in an object, hospital or secondary school in a strict city centre. A contribution to the employment of disabled people because, of course, disabled people can't be cleaners. Income tax, profit tax, and, of course, that company wouldn't be doing all that if it wasn't planning to make a profit. I wonder what efficiency we're talking about at a cost reduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101716	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101717	Yes, colleague Juričev, you mentioned well, so whoever does this job for school and the hospital will issue an account to be charged with VAT. So therefore the service is 25% more expensive at the start. But you're the mayor of the city. Three weeks ago, the government passed minimum standards on primary education. Those who became founders of schools cities had a share in income tax 3.1 per old law. Under this amended Law on the financing of local self-government units, this participation was reduced by 1.9 and thus total and decentralised functions were reduced by 800 million kuna. So maybe the government, at the moment she passed that law, also thought that you would outsource services and that you wouldn't need that much money, but you're in a real problem now because you with much less money have to maintain, you actually have to have the current investment maintenance in schools and the logical thing if it wasn't maintained that those cleaners would have far more work to do. Well, maybe that's how they probably thought they'd hire those out-of-court cleaning girls. So obviously one thoughtless... obviously they think that when you put in such an English word that the Croats will fall on their backs because it will impress them very much. However, without structural reforms, nothing is possible in the state budget. Unfortunately, we come here where we are and the Vice-President of the European Commission when he was yesterday sent us a clear message, but unfortunately the Croatian media, and also many did not want to hear it. These 385 billion are for the private sector, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia needs to implement structural reforms and institutional frameworks for potential investors. So he's dealing with it, not with such crazy things as outsourcing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101718	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101719	Dear counterpart Shuker, as you yourself have said for an hour in this honorable Croatian home we use beautiful ancient Croatian words outsourcing, spin off and how our minister especially Hajdas Doncic can speak and use. And now there's a question of this government's social sense. We're talking about forgiveness of debts, so we're talking about income tax where units of local self-government are damaged. If we know that these activities are always some starting point in calculating employees' salaries, we can think about what we now have in reality. Here's an example of kindergarten. We have children's kindergartens owned by towns and municipalities, there are cooks and cleaning women and all the employees and in the same cities and municipalities we have private kindergartens. What's the difference? So this privateer has to make some extra income, which is why he's doing it. The city and the municipality are not interested, they have some kind of economical kindergarten that co-finance children and private kindergartens. The economic price therefore covers the salaries of city kindergarten employees, and the economic price covers the same in private kindergartens. Now the question is, how valuable is the work of these private workers and how much in the city kindergarten? The same thing can be applied to this. And given today's economic situation, I see absolutely no reason to move into this, to ban the employment of new people, workers and those with the lowest incomes. We're witnessing what happens to employees in I don't know how many different malls, how many people they work for, and what kind of receipts they work for. And we have a situation and services that are entrusted with concession agreements to maintain green areas, such as municipal societies, in which employees are treated, and in which are private concessionaries. So there's a big difference in employee rights, and I think this is completely unnecessary and unfair to employees in those institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101720	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101721	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Klaric, so the question arises is whether there should be a market match everywhere where there are no pre-conditions for the market. Therefore, you can talk about a competition game where the preconditions are created. We can withdraw an example that with slightly less than 300 million funding from the state budget, which is humanitarian demining. In the race to get as many jobs as possible, it simply went down, it lowered the price below each level. Today, the basket of m2 is paid more in the city parks in Croatia than is the captain of people who carry their heads in a bag every day, than the captain of people for whom children, their wives, parents do not know how that day will end. And that's what that famous market game has led to. However, if the State had set up the way it was to be set up, which is that the Competition Protection Agency should have reacted and contained unfair competition then that would not have happened. Unfortunately, this may also happen in the first years with these extracurricular activities, but the question arises whether one day these people in some other companies would trade unions and seek their rights and minimum dignity to pay them. Because now that so many people are out of work, when people are out of work every day, let's not forget that Croatia has lost more than 200,000 jobs in the last five years, then it's logical that they accept everything alive for the simple reason that at least they can cover those basic overhead costs and that they can give the child in the morning for breakfast, that they can give it for that cake that goes to school. So let's not rush to the market unless we're ready for that. The market is a great thing where conditions are created for this, but a terrible thing, and I'm saying that humanitarian demining may be the best indicator where the preconditions aren't created.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101722	Thank you very much. Now the replicas of the presentation of the respected representative, Josip Boric. The first replica and respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101723	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Boric, when you were talking about monetizing the roads then I certainly agree with you completely and I also want to point out the word should not be hurried. The best indicator of the bad concession that we already have in Croatia is the built highway Zagreb-Macelj, and it would also be given to discuss the stakes of BINA Istria, where we simply gave the road concessions especially here Zagreb – Macelj where I know exactly where we had big problems at the beginning. We still have them today. Namely, what's this about? The arrival of concessionaires in Croatia where we gave him the highway in concession he simply acted on his own. First of all, he changed prices, they were no longer as they were, but they were bigger, he reduced the number of employees, and in contract with the Croatian highways, it was like this: "In case the concessionaire did not achieve the revenues that the Croatian highways had, the difference was due to be charged, so they are obliged to pay for Croatian highways." And that's how it was. So we have a bad example of the concession, and today we only, that is, we only gave one part of the highway, and today we want to give all the highways in the concession and we simply don't see that we will go the same way as we did in this concession Zagreb – Macelj. Simple giving in concessions to concessionaries who will give us a lot of conditions. So imagine if someone gave us 3 billion and we simply gave them more conditions. So where's that? I came to Croatia to earn money, then I will set my terms and you will not set my prices and you will not determine the way I will function because I have given the money and I want to determine the conditions and not the HAC and not the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101724	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101725	Thank you very much, fellow Lucic. Well, I'm not going to say that these are just such bad examples, because these roads are still built. We know what the obligations are and how much we have to pay, what times something needs to be paid, etc. However, 60 km of Zagreb – Macelj and 140 km of BINA Istria were built and this must have led to these areas, let's say economic development etc. It wasn't the main burden on the state budget, although one small part did. But we're talking about something else today. So we're talking about monetization, i.e. concessioning built roads. We used to put roads in construction and let someone use those roads and charge for it. And that's what the world knows, and I've cited examples of where the land means building, i.e. give a concession to build a highway for 30 years. They would return those roads to them after 30 years and pay 100% of the value of construction. And we with a proposal like this, i.e. with this way of thinking about concessioning we give these roads, built roads, 100% built roads for 40% of the value. That's a big let's say, there are big differences and we don't understand why the government insists on that when we know, and it's often said here that the high highway prices are that according to EUROSTAT research, that the construction of kilometers of highways was 62% of the EU average in the construction of such highways. Although we often do, I say, because of some events that were certainly not correct, nor to honor, we often talk about expensiveness, and 62% are prices that have been raised in other countries. So we think that this is exactly one important argument that for 40% of the value of 100% of the highways built, it's not useful to give the same in the concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101726	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101727	Thank you, Mr. President. I have already claimed in two replicas that the government's procedure is illegal, i.e. that if the government wanted to do so, it would have come to the Croatian Parliament. And I believe that the Constitutional Court will determine that this constitutional issue is in line with, that is, the referendum issue in accordance with the Constitution and miss the referendum, then Croatian citizens will certainly be against monetaryisation. And if the Constitutional Court were to say that the referendum issue is against the law, I am convinced that the government will still have to come to the Parliament to continue this procedure, and I am more than certain about it. And I hope that's the way it's gonna be. As for the other important things you were talking about in this process, it couldn't have gone without cost-censored benefit analysis. Every Croatian citizen, and at least we representatives in the Croatian Parliament, had to have clear mathematics, the cost-effectiveness of this process. In your opening part, you said that HAC and ARZ have the largest financial record by 2019. After 2020, these are indeed smaller annual anunites, which could be paid by the excise duty itself, which was 60 liras intended for the construction of highways, and not to say that then the revenue from the toll could remain on the side. That is why it is not clear to us, at least I do not understand, at the club of the Croatian Democratic Community why the Government proposed to the Croatian Assembly in 2013 that excise duty be abolished by Croatian highways, i.e. only 20 limes, 20 limes are given to Croatian roads and 20 limes to be given to HZ Infrastructure. On the one hand, HAC was destitute, and HZ Infrastructure did nothing to continue investment in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101728	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101729	When we spoke about procedures, when we spoke about the Law on concessions, we made clear to them that such a procedure would be the smartest thing for them to think about, then they started talking about it, it was the smartest thing to do through the draft law in the Croatian Parliament. Then you'd avoid a referendum, it wouldn't be necessary to collect signatures, everyone would have the right to say what they think about this procedure, and I think the government would have had me think a simpler way. Now it's going in the other direction. But that's what it looks like when you don't listen, when there are absolute brains and then we just come into situations where here at the late hour we're talking about why we're now sending this question to the Constitutional Court. And we have an example of this referendum on marriage then the Croatian Parliament concluded we have enough signatures, let's call a referendum. And that's where we come up with why Peja Grbin's been thinking for a few months, looking for marks where there might be something to argue about getting some time. And now we're at that stage. Of course, it'll show time we were right. And what they keep hiding from us is a reckoning. How much we're gonna lose in case we concession highways. In the last thematic session, the Minister calculates to us in a fine way how much it costs until the term of all contracts, in 2034 and then says we are minus. A concession shall be granted until 2045, or 2055. Then we're not counting the next 20 years of income and we're reducing it. So we decided in advance we want to concession it and we don't want any other model or reprogramme or talk about securitisation. It's just their decision. And what we can minimally look for is a moratorium until the Constitutional Court is manifested and a referendum is carried out, simply. But they don't want it here either, they go their own way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101730	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101731	You've said a lot of things, I could say at least 10 things I'd like to replicate but, of course, in 2 minutes, you don't get there. First thing, you said one thing you know the government is talking, and if you go into monetizing that you will remain debts and that the government is cheating. The government never and none of us from the government, none of us who talked about it, said that we'd settle all debts by monetizing. So don't put what we didn't say. The fact is, the debt for built highways is about 4 billion euros, so no interest, only the principal, so 30, 31 billion kuna at this time. And if we get the monetization process for that 3 billion normally, it's going to decrease from 4 to 1 billion. It's going to be a billion in the lead, not four as it is now. It's going to shrink, and it's going to shrink significantly. Unfortunately, we probably won't be able to get all four billion by monetizing, if we could get somewhere lucky, then all the debt would be settled. And that's a fact. Why is it so long and why is it so? That's another question. You know it better than I do because you're personal, and your government was also a good part of building those roads and leading to this debt. And you know how you built it yourself, by coloring the tunnels twice, by making the prices very high, it's all true. But where we are, here we are, now we need to get it back. And that loans were taken at 9% interest and that's a fact. And now it's all due back, it's here to collect. Therefore, there is also an answer to the question you asked why the increase and external debt of Croatia in these 3 years is important? So because the debts that were created before are returned. So our deficits are 10, 12 billion in these last two, three years. Out of that 10 billion just on interest on debts, on old debts. And the good part of these debts is from that period when highways were built and you built them the way you built them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101732	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101733	Assuming Mr Jelusic that you are right to interpret that the public debt increased during your term of office from 2012 to the end of 2015 will almost grow by 146 billion kuna, from 154 billion at the end of 2011 to 300 billion in 2015 when you hand over power? So where did you spend it? What were you afraid of with that money? That's the question. This is where the roads were built so there was some kind of debt, we're not hiding it, but what did you spend? You've spent more than all the governments in 17 years. No, I'm sorry, 21 years old. Do you remember that? Well, we've recently had a debate on how much public debt there is in the Republic of Croatia. We forgot that. Between 1990 and 2011. 154 billion public debt. With war, with restoration, with everything else. In 4 years of your power, 146 billion. So what were you afraid of, except not to say something ugly? What were you doing? So I'm asking you, where did you spend that money? Why are you hiding it from people? And the simplest thing is, you were painting the tunnel, so what are we talking about at that level? But let's explain as a major economic expert where you spent five budgets in the government's four-year term. So four originals and another five, which is 140 billion in debt. You still have something to say to someone else. Well, that's an average of 30 billion and some borrowing a year, deficit. Do you understand that, Mr. Jelusic? What were you afraid of? The chairs?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101734	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ante Babic, new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101735	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your presentation, you said that the prime minister said that these roads are not worth it because they are driving for 3 months and that the future concessionaire will probably close the possible highway for 9 months. But 20 billion kuna interest will be paid for almost 30 years, and that's what you're talking about. And the effects of monetisation will be spent in one fiscal year, i.e. to patch up holes in the state budget. Now you've mentioned 145 billion public debt, which is actually 7 times more than the funds that could be obtained by monetizing, but one good decision is based on analyses, assessments and checks that you actually said in those 10 questions that you asked the whole public. And you've done well. As this government does, it also speaks in fact of a statement by the minister that we forgot who said the government would make up for all the lost profits to the concessionaire. How is that even possible? The government itself has determined the value of highways and its own but also to society as a whole has done a huge damage, and it has actually helped the possible concessionaire to set an offer price and it is certainly not the protection of national interests but the opposite. And something else when you spoke to your colleague, Boric, though, in a replica about the coloring of the tunnel during our government, how is it possible that after that double-colored tunnel no indictment has been filed to this day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101736	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101737	My colleague Babic, just like that, 145 billion were spent and I said it in my debate, now we offer it for a week, by monetizing it for a seventh of the total debt in four years of office on completely missed policies. And they say to us, now you're saving us, so now we're saving you, and the people, so we don't sink completely. So first we spend 140 billion and then we save you from 20 and we're successful because here we managed to kind of reduce it to 120. And when you ask them what you did, they don't know. Here, one project if we'd done it all the way and at least that Peleski Bridge of 2.5 billion, I'd at least understand that. But what it's all about is a completely non-transparent procedure in which the public knows nothing and the information that can be filtered out of the Ministry of the Sea is filtered, so that people can even know that tomorrow we're going to go to a referendum to know what to vote for. It's all hiding something, and the procedure itself has gone in a way that selected concessionaries, i.e. consultants for neither less or more than 10m euros for consulting services. What are they offering us for 10 million euros? 75 million kuna? And what happens at some point if there's no monetization, and there won't be if there's a referendum, where did we throw 10 million euros? Whether we will be privatised by the HPB where more than 30 million kuna has also been paid out of the budget and privatisation has not happened. Who would be allowed to throw away such light money, this government is a fact. We can say whatever we want but the fact is irrefutable. Why are we hiding basic information from the public? Now someone came in and failed the monetization, so it didn't go down, so Heidash says it didn't go down, so we talk a little bit more, so they sell all the companies in Croatia, no one knows anything. And it could end up the way she talks about HZ CARGO and the famous Mr. Stojka.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101738	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101739	Thank you very much. Col. Boric, not only should he remember Georgia and HZ CARGO but also statements that unless Croatian highways are monetized that he will destroy or abolish HAC ONC, Mr. Doncic said so. Furthermore, remember one statement when the Prime Minister said this, so we had to charge ourselves for another 10 billion kuna or about a billion and a half euros because there is no people monetizing, so we had to. So, one of the villains, with one ominous smile, now we're still in charge of you because you won't be monetizing Croatian highways. Remember that Mr. Hajdas Doncic promised the modernisation of the train track Okucani-Vinkovci, and the consultant and designer of the same railway, the modernisation that was supposed to go from these 20 pieces of excise duty that was taken from the Croatian highways and given to the railways was therefore notified some months ago to stop designing the track and the Kukani-Vinkovci railways because there is no money and that is about a billion kuna to reconstruct this railway. Now, look and the fact that this government has been spending it and they have no idea what they've spent it on is the complete and living truth, you can see it. And I can do what they've spent on, starting with those huge 2,000 cars, 1,700 cars and 300 and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101740	Thank you, too. Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101741	Thank you very much. counterpart Grubisic, I think these privatisations are just empty threats from Minister Hajdas who are trying to tell the unions in some way to prove that he is in charge of the ministry even though he knows in advance that he will come out as a failed minister. And speaking of debts, today Minister Lalovac has taken a suitcase and goes for a billion and a half dollars. It's like that, every couple of weeks I go, I take a couple of billion and it comes to 140, it comes. But then they save us by monetizing us, and public finances, and workers, and everyone else just by that story, "Keep the water while the masters leave," and then everyone thinks. And that's the worst. But it will show time, I hope there will be enough wisdom and prudence and that the government will. The Constitutional Court is missing this because we can't stop them from sending it there, they've decided that, and there are conditions to call a competition without sending it there. There are cheaper i.e. easier ways since the issue was like the bill, which they also dispute. The bill can come in front of clubs, adopt it and thus protect ourselves for a future time. But well, we have to go through all these procedures to say again the people will be as we said, as was the story of the definition of marriage so they turn it back on their side through the Family Law and always conflict with the people but this is a pre-election year and everyone will try and like it and you will see, everyone will look good, nice and try to look so acceptable to another voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101742	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101743	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric,... The roads are the only ones that are so strong, hundreds of miles of asphalt, if they have far deeper economic significance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What would you look like today, Lika, the Dalmatian Zagora, what would the islands look like if those highways weren't made? The second thing, so with which we intend to transport passengers to these newly built hotels that will be built if they don't come with the highway? Why do we look at this whole process staticly instead of looking dynamically? When Croatia comes to economic growth of 3.4%, when this number of unemployed decreases, when wages increase, don't you think traffic against highways will certainly increase by 20.30%. And look, these investors who will pay 20 billion kuna for highways will pay for about 15 years, and for the next 25 years, they will read between, on average, 2.5.3 billion kunas of pure cash. Now it's very interesting when someone says that Croatian highways have been heavily in debt. Now there's something not clear to me. Credits, most of the loans were raised by the European institutional banks of the EIB, the EBRD where Croatia is in a certain way co-owner or owner. So it's very interesting that we couldn't talk to these banks to extend the return deadline at now a lower interest rate and with domestic pension funds, to regulate it, to reprogramme and to make Croatia's highways pay off their own debt. He says that these 60 limes are illegal support. Is the return of the VAT BINA ISTRA and the concessionary of the Zagreb-Macelj highway, is that illegal support? It's very interesting when we go back to strangers then it's legal and when we give it to our own, it's illegal. See, that's what's wrong. It's obvious when someone doesn't offer any more variants than just one that they have some secret account in the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101744	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101745	Thank you very much. In my debate, I said, and I will repeat that the management rights of highways that are one of the most important national resources and assumptions of regional development are also too important a question to be decided by several people, especially without making a socio-economic analysis that needs to be seen the overall ratio of social costs and benefits rather than just a short-term impact on public finances which is really questioned in the implementation of the monetisation. So you talked about what this meant for Lika, which meant for Dalmatia and Slavonia and all Croatian parts. Well, we know it's time for money and we travel a few times faster today than we did when we didn't have highways. That it was a stronger cloister of tourism and tourism return, especially in Dalmatia, which in the number of nights has reached both Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County, which were then much more preceded. It's the effects of public roads, but we're meeting today with a fact that we can't get an answer. Why do you pay someone exactly what you said, pay a fee of 3 billion euros, give up 60 liras of the fuel price, charge yourself on the long-term market for at least 70% of these 3 billion that will give to the Republic of Croatia and still make a profit because probably the concessionaire comes in to make a profit. And the Republic of Croatia does not pay all of this under the same conditions, with another 60 limes. So who are we cheating on? Yourself, people? Well, let's not do that. Well, someone has to answer that. No one can talk to me, so we can't repay the loans. So in 2014, the story was, the debt was refinanced and we moved on, so what's wrong, what's the problem? But we have positive cash flows after 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101746	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101747	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Boric, you mentioned in your discussion that the goal was to do something transparent, then we would also have the experience of other countries. So let's just say I'm in all the hard work that I've been able to find on these portals one single example, probably not to the media or it's not interesting or in some other way they're away from that topic, but the French are calling for a renationalisation of the highway. Since the text is short and I will also read it: "As the concession of highways is forced in Croatia, French call for renationalisation and privatisation is called a ongoing scandal. The 2005 highways have been dedicated to privates for 14.8 billion euros between 23 and 27 years. As a reason for privatisation, the state budget and new employment were mentioned. It is estimated that the main concessionaries in the past 8 years have divided a billion euros in profits while citizens suffer because toll prices are constantly rising.". There's a positive effect on the monetization of the freeways from France. But obviously, we don't have enough experience for others but we have to feel it ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101748	Thank you very much. No, there's a replica? ... Oh, that's great. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101749	We have more examples and we know more or less what's going on in this system. I cited an example from 100% construction so giving in concessions and returning to state management. This is an example of France. They did it and realized that they were wrong and they are a very rich and slightly stronger state than the Republic of Croatia but they realized that perhaps the one who did not need it was the user, the citizen, eventually suffered. And we have no guarantee that this will not happen to the Republic of Croatia and to us, because we really don't know what's going on, and that's why I've asked a dozen questions, and I've found out that we have no information on any matter, except for a little bit in the media, except among the people who work in these companies, so we find out something, and that's that, but that's how all the companies are sold, i.e. public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia. So was my... on Rab Island as a hotel company. Now imagine the situation that was for this company the first round so the second round, in two circles means four times they were making bids, we managed to prevent something in the first round, and in the second round we hoped no intention would happen again, and thank God it didn't happen, but we don't even know who answered in the first round so that he could report in the second round. We don't know who offered anything at all, just a statement from the CERP, no one answered. There was one offer but we didn't consider it because it didn't meet the conditions. I guess that's how it's gonna happen here. So did the Croatian Parliament, which is not logical, if we discussed all the loans with which roads were built and credited to build roads, we discussed here about 100 million euros, about 20, about 50 million euros in loans, and when it comes to monetizing, we don't need to say anything for 20 billion. Well, that doesn't make sense. Well, we should be the ones making the decision, and it'd be easier for the government, but it won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101750	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS club in the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs Mile Horvat and Milorad Pupovac. ... You had one, too? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't skip it. ... I wrote what they told me to write. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't see it. I'm sorry, I didn't. Why would he shut you down? There's no reason. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Done, done. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You go ahead and give him a new time. Here you go. My mistake or someone else's, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101751	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the SDSS Club, I will talk about the first point or decision on the request for a referendum on outsourcing popularly and I will try to be brief since we have been working on these topics for a long time. So first of all, we fully respect the caution and fear of people who have dealt with and conducted an initiative to collect signatures to call a referendum because we ourselves have a certain reserve according to this model, a new model, a new one from a working relationship called in English outsourcing, and I think it would be better to call it the original separation of jobs and employees. So we have a certain reserve for this new thing, and I think it will be interesting very quickly and the debate on another new thing that will come to us, and it will probably be this signed transatlantic agreement that the European Union will sign, so it will open up the possibility that not only public services but also public affairs will deal with private persons, or private companies where, of course, all European countries will be able to compete, so I wouldn't be surprised to be even some American firm. And it'll be interesting then to see how we react to such things. So I see this referendum issue as an attempt to protect people who went to the referendum, gave their signature from a possible future government decision to single out certain jobs and public service employees, whether these, whether the next Government matters. So it's some kind of precaution that they're manifesting this way and I'm kind of repeating it I can understand. The second thing, it wasn't a practice so far, although it was a legitimate thing, that the referendum issue passed the whole law. It wasn't a practice until now, so we'll see how this ends. We have a position, therefore, because of all the certain vague things that have been done in the semi-communication between the Organisational Committee for the Declaration of Voters and the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, which have been led and we have all this communication here, we see that certain situations are also being questioned by the legal basis of this referendum, that they question entrepreneurial freedom, that they are being questioned and unconstitutional, that they are talking about savings as an undefined concept. We can see that there's also a category of reception here for a new job and, of course, here we're talking about the quality of services and we think that in most of the people who signed it, they gave their signature here right. However, we from the position of the club have analysed the Law on the pursuit of non-basic activities in the public sector, which should possibly be adopted by a referendum, and we express a certain reserve under Article 3 in which the following non-essential activities in the public sector are said to be carried out exclusively by employees, officials, tenants, etc., etc. A paragraph 2 is therefore not technically prohibited from disseminating the following non-essential activities in the public sector, and their implementation is in a way other than this written form, etc., so no-technically and essentially we think that this is an overly strict definition and that it fundamentally excludes even the possibility to engage some others when it is necessary. Therefore, for us at the club, this is a sufficient reason, and among other things, because of the fact that we have entrusted all the referendum issues to the Constitutional Court in our assessment of constitutionality, we believe that this is sufficient reason for this referendum question, as it is set here, to the Constitutional Court's assessment. We believe that it will be as a colleague of the coat of arms said that within 30 days, the Constitutional Court will be manifested and announced and that it will not be long before we see whether this initiative that received a very significant number of signatures, so 10% through the legal obligation, will then go to the referendum. The second thing I'm saying is that it's a reference to, just a brief reference to our viewing of this new instrumentation in labour legislation called the separation of jobs and employees that do not represent, i.e. cor activity, i.e. fundamental activity, but are some sort of secondary activity. It is therefore important to say that we are not mistaken to be employed if it is previously agreed upon by one or more private companies with which the contract is concluded and, as a rule, for a certain period of time. Auxiliaries are often broken down by several service contractors who deal with them as a basic activity, and also by some segments of the items are supplied under contractors. In doing so, out-sourcing workers are guaranteed employment security per year and no more than two years. And that's exactly where these people's fear that under such a working relationship regime will simply be after a year, two, three, and five years then be on the labour market. Therefore, we think that outsourcing may have been a good model, but out of some caution and because of the various experiences that our working-legislative legislation has brought to us lately where we see that we have a business that is close to some category of even hohstappler business, we understand that caution and we think that outsourcing as a category of working legislation can't liven up in the right way and it won't make sense unless we change the working-law environment on the labour market both in society and in culture in general. So unless we establish inspection controls properly, unless employers become real employers with manners such as employers in the Western world, unless collective agreements are quality contracts in a way like that in the west, in any case, the union here needs to recognize some of its role and some of the responsibility for how it works. And final. So I'm going to ask one basic question, one human question. So, are the cleaners, the cooks, some central heating monitors going to save the budget with the shape of the outsourcing? I don't think so. I think if we do it in elementary school, say, in the White Manastir, there's a central heating malfunction. This gentleman who's done it so far he intervenes during the night, tomorrow the children have improved central heating. There's a suspicion, so I'm just rightly afraid it's going to go like that. I'm afraid not. And I think it's absurd for us to save on that category of people, when on the other hand we have a budget debate about how thrifty agencies are, how thrifty public systems are, how much they cost us to rent our business spaces, etc. etc. Therefore, cleaning women and cooks should not be a medium for us to save the budget. So, we're not against outsourcing, but before we think we need to do a lot of major storage in our labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101752	Thank you, too. Continuing on behalf of the club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101753	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll split my part of the speech into two parts. The first will be some kind of commentary of what are said today or tonight by particularly active colleagues from the HDZ Club of Representatives. It is first moving to see how concessions and rents are discussed today 2014 and 2015, and we know how they were given in concessions and how they were leased during the 1990s and during the two thousandths. To this day we don't know what the real situation is with concessions, to this day we don't know how these things work. This is certainly not the only place to be questioned and asked about the application of the Law on concessions and the general way in which the governments functioned and the municipalities, cities and counties operate when they are in response to the concession or when they are under rental. But it is good that this debate has been launched so that we can all raise the question of where and how many countries have lost and where and how much today it loses not only on possible highways but on a number of other concession contracts. And that's what I'd like my colleague to be active and respected in every way Shucker says here. Another thing I'd like to say is what my colleague Boric said. Where did he grow this much debt? So the state remained alone, with its debts earlier, with its ruined economy, with its destroyed industry, with its destroyed public services, with its destroyed judiciary, with its destroyed institutions and you ask where it came from. So it came from what needs to be maintained and there were no measures that prevented what had to be prevented. That's what this is about. So when there was no income and no income, let’s just look at how much we got into agriculture, and what did we get for it? Look how much we got, how much we spent on some other sectors and what we got for it. And finally, it is said without highways a key business branch in Croatia, tourism would mean nothing. And what does that mean? That the Republic of Croatia shouldn't have other industries? What does this mean, that the money to be invested in development, to be invested in research, to be invested in applied science, to be invested in re-industriousisation, is not worth Croatian money but only this kind of branch? Well, if the Norwegians thought it was a rescue, so I think they'd build highways along and across Norway, so no, they have fewer than we do. So let's not make a myth out of a place where there's no bribe. The truth is much worse, we have highways and we don't have trucks, we have highways and we don't have passengers, we have debts, and we don't have profits from them. And that's unfortunately the way it is. The one who planned it, the one who was in the enthusiasm of the so-called. The construction industry thought it would be a rescue for Croatia was wrong, or not wrong, maybe I'm wrong. And in the end, as for the initiative that we and this outsidercing eye support because it comes from an honest intention to stop and wake up the nation and stop selling out the wake just to patch up a single hole, to stop that trend, and to wake people up with a feeling of patriotic relationship not only to the flag, not just to the defenders, but to the wealth that we have left, and we respect that. And that's why we support it. And what I'd like to say to my colleague Grbino, who is here today unfortunately one of the few SDPs who holds the side of the government, I don't know where the rest of the SDPs are, if there's any of this club, with all due respect, we've been here all day, two of the most significant discussions of the water, all of you who've been here this morning as if it wasn't a topic of discussion. Therefore, a esteemed colleague of the coat of arms may be that the formulation is not exactly done when it comes to the issue but the intention is clear, the purpose is clear. And if you interpret it that way, and you have enough knowledge that you can interpret it telelogically, you can interpret the intention, the intention was highways, not all public roads, the intention is highways, not all public roads. And it's visible from what they want, it's also visible from the comparative reading of legal provisions. And if we can ask you to rephrase some of the parts of the decision, rephrase the parts of the decision saying that the question is not in line with what was intended to be achieved and what was the campaign. Yeah, you just want a system solution. This is, of course, where we come to the issue as well as the outsorcing whether the referendum can move whole legislative initiatives? Can the referendum initiatives take over the role of Parliament? I don't think so, but we have to respect them as initiatives. We need to open up space for them, and we need to create a hearing for them. The same applies to part of the remarks made by colleagues from the Croatian Labourists. The initiative is not responsible for the fact that the legislator's decisions were made by dynamics, in particular by the Constitutional Court. If the initiative was launched during the summer of the 7th month and if the Constitutional Court held a position on what kind of reasoning should be given and in what form it is not an initiative. So let's look at things the way we should, and that's in good faith, because this is about goodwill. Finally, when it comes to our obligations as members of the EU, therefore respecting the provisions on free competition, we think that the Republic of Croatia also has the right to consider individual segments of its wealth or its economic capacity as a strategic national interest or strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. He's right. We couldn't do it at the shipyard, we have the condition we have. But can we do it with this kind of money invested like this and can we do it with what hasn't begun to make us an adequate profit, and in the future, we might start to make a profit. So let's listen to our HDZ colleagues and their models and we need them to be discussed. The only question is, why didn't the HDZ Club start with some kind of legislative initiative that you expect from the government? ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It didn't come. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The SDSS representative club believes that it is good to refer this to the Constitutional Court but we propose to the motion that certain parts of the decision be reformed differently, especially those concerning the intention, especially those concerning the arguments, and thus remove part of the misunderstanding that exists at this time between the initiative and this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101754	Thank you. Now we move on to replicas that are exactly 8. The First Honored Golden Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101755	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Horvat, when you were talking about outsourcing, then you said that you support but clearly in your discussion you said that something should be done. I have to say here with what you said that especially small savings can be on cleaners and on cooks, that current practice shows us that savings may be but quality is certainly falling. So far outsourcing has just shown that such services are on minimum salaries employed, below minimum wages cannot be paid and where much greater obligations for employees when they go outsourcing and show that these people are in some way rauban, that these employees who work simply physically cannot do everything that the employer imposes on them, and on the other hand, certain savings on individual means and has shown the practice that quality in this business is much worse. What you're talking about, and I support that outsourcing would have an effect, and that's a question of collective agreements, that's a question of law, that's a question of social justice, and people who work to be protected, that's what we don't have today. First we have to create certain preconditions and when such preconditions are acquired then we can only talk about outsourcing. Finally, in addition to that part of the practice, the current government has shown that, when it comes to collective agreements because of the extended application of the collective contract, around 30,000 employees have fewer rights because they have stopped applying collective agreements to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101756	The line matches the esteemed Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101757	Thank you. Dear fellow, so the light motive of the whole business around the outsourcing is so-called. saves how much the state will save if you give in private hands, so to a private company, a private entrepreneur will give all the housekeepers, all those people who work on these side jobs. So the basic question is who's gonna pay these people? So again, the state has to pay someone's services, it has to pay the company which will regularly and finely invoice it and will demand payment within a certain currency, a certain deadline, etc. etc. and we fear that there will be no major financial effects, financial savings except that there will be further degradation, i.e. erosion and little rights of those workers that we once called workers' rights, I don't know what to call it today, employees' rights is no matter, but it is certain that they have so much eroded that they've come down to that minimum and now we'll let them go to private entrepreneurs to take advantage of their principles and manners, and we know what our entrepreneurship manners are on the market, so that they redistribute them somewhere further, to take advantage of them in various times. And of course that's what comes into question and quality, but it's a human factor, the question is how many, how these people and how much can be exploited.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101758	Second replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker. That one goes to Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101759	Dear Pupovac, you mentioned concessions, you were part of the coalition when the concession register was started at the Ministry of Finance, not once and at joint meetings, and in this high house I spoke about it, Croatia has over 5,000 concession contracts concluded from some of the administrative departments of some cities to ministries and states. With regard to the concession in the Ministry of Finance, there is a register, but you also have a concession agreement dating back to the former state. Therefore, it may be one of the tasks of the state audit that should be combed together. But as far as highways are concerned, its importance as I think of a key infrastructure project, I would ask all of us how much GDP would fall at this point in the Republic of Croatia if we didn't have the tourist season we have, and we can't even have a tourist season like this without highways? We have become a practical weekend resort in Central Europe. It's a fact, and we can talk about whatever we want, just like we do about the development of agriculture without the Danube-Sava channel, and without irrigation, you can't talk. The development of the Rijeka-Botovo port without the railway is also unspeakable. These are capital infrastructure projects. Also, gas stations in the northern Adriatic for Croatia had no meaning at all that there was no pipeline from Fažana to Karlovac. Only then could we let our part of the gas that belongs to us practically let the Croatian producers go. It used to go through Italy and Slovenia and you know how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, uh, they gave us. So they have some infrastructure projects that simply have too much importance. What kind of guy would be today if it wasn't for the highway? She'd be even deserter than she is. God forbid the Zagreb-Sisak highway was completed and you can be sure that there would be far more people in Banovina today and there would certainly be several thousand more jobs in Sisak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101760	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101761	Here are representatives from Slavonia and Baranja, so I can tell you if Slavonica has opened more jobs or just allowed them to go faster. Therefore, you know how fellow Shuker, when you use that argument about tourism. That's about when you stay on just one thing and then you say, if we didn't have it, we'd fall apart. Well, of course we'd be ruined because we destroyed everything else. Who destroyed it? ... [[Who destroyed her?]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101762	And your colleague Shuker and you know you can't talk like this. This way you can talk outside the assembly room. Let the Pod go now to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101763	Mr. Vice President, this is still a late hour, so you can let MPs be a little more free.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101764	I can't allow it because it's not a question of my will, it's a matter of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101765	In other words, unfortunately, the road did not bring what we expected it to bring. We better have her than not have her, but since we've brought the whole debate down on her and on tourism, what will Gospić get with it? Wouldn't you have gotten more instead of what we started the university if we had done another development project, about research, about industry? As for the concession. I know now that you've talked about it, but we still don't have any indication how much we get, how much we lose. We still have no indication of how much agricultural land has been given and by which kuna and how many periods and how much of it does the state benefit? How many countries are given for hunting and how many of these municipalities, county and state benefit? And how much tourism does it benefit? We don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101766	The new replica, the esteemed Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101767	Thank you very much. Mr. Pupovac, I'm a little surprised by this rhetoric of yours, especially when you condemn and condemn the former government and you were essentially part of that government, so together in the coalition with HDZ. You were talking about concessions, you were talking about agriculture as if the damage had been done. So you see this government has only reduced agriculture by a billion and a half kuna in these three years even more, we can say a billion and 700. When we talk about the damage that has taken place, Mr. Boris has just spoken 150 billion kuna under the authority to say that since 2001. For 4 years, the government acted as the SDP authority, so the state of Croatia was in charge. And now you're a member of this government and you're only in 3.5 years in charge of 145 billion. So I'm asking you, where is this money now? Save this government the past you've been in and this day, so spend so much money without at the same time having any responsibility to your colleagues or to the SDP in which you participate actively and which you support. Both you and many other coalition partners. So there's no responsibility. Why is there no responsibility? On the other hand, when you're talking about how many people have taken a job. Look, there was only one company that had 1300 people employed on, not just Slavonics in general when highways were being built. And let me tell you something else, the Croatian highways were available at the time of HDZ, so 5 billion kuna each year plus 2.5 billion in Croatian roads, 7.5 billion. Here it has now fallen, it has been a billion and a half and this year we say that in Croatian highways we will have about 600 to 700 million kuna for investments. Well, it's a disaster, a disaster. And what bad thing did HDZ do to build Croatia and Croatian highways?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101768	The replica matches the esteemed Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101769	First, you know that I am not a member of this government, as I was not a member of any other government. And as for supporting the HDZ government at the time of the HDZ, there is no doubt at all that the majority of the mandate of the government was in favour of this country and the country's strategic and long-term interest and we knew it. Of course... This is the people of the HSS, my party did not condition that 6 billion kuna be sought in the agriculture budget without knowing why it went away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, not all 6 billion went away in that term, but let it go 3 or 4 is very much since we have Croatian agriculture. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, the public money, the public wealth at this age, has been lurking like no one else's and turning into a private one. Most often private inefficient that brings no profit to society. And when these people stand up against the fact that even a little bit of what's left of state and social doesn't just give up in monetization, then we support them, regardless of whether there's any procedural mistakes being made by a colleague of the coat of arms. Because we think it's the only salvation for this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101770	Replica, the esteemed Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101771	Dear colleague Pupovac, you said that it would likely be possible to find out what the content of the concessions concluded in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether they were made by the local community or by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I think that's possible. And my colleague Shuker just before, and I said there's about 5,000 of them. But I think that he would give insight into these concessions essentially to the initiators for this, i.e. these respected citizens or representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have gathered around this initiative, given the conditions under which concessions are given. In fact, I probably know something about concessions on maritime good, they've been given under significantly different conditions over the years, and it's not a problem that there's a need for these conditions to be uniformly, that business entities do business on equal terms, that they pay equally, that they pay equally for the occupied meter of space, but it's impossible to do that because the Mandatory Relations Act says you've concluded it for so many years, and the inequality in concessions is not a condition for the termination of the concession contract. Therefore, it would have to be done or with some special law if the government had the ambition to regulate it, but surely if the concessions so far opened, it would have created a valid reason for this initiative in view of the injustices that have been done inside, because the one carrying the heavy burden carries it for 18 years, the one carrying the light load carries it for 20 years, and now let someone tell me if it's a fair match. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101772	The answer to the replica Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101773	Dear colleague Hrelja, of course it's not a fair game. We have no insight into all possible concessions given because their number is huge but based on partial insight we know that it is not a fair match because the concessions were given by political similarities and political circumstances unfortunately. It is said that there used to be political similarities and similar people, but there are today and the last concessions that have been given over the past years on the maritime good were given according to political criteria, not economic criteria. That was the point of what I was about to say. And it would be good, as much as the Republic of Croatia and on these things loses, it would be good to see. Your argument is, for example, a maritime good, a concession on maritime well-being, which points to a series of arguments in favour of the need to reconsider that matter. So it is not only necessary to review what the Government intends to do with monetization but that the overall practice of concessions in the Republic of Croatia is necessary to question and see where and how much it is lost and how much the Republic of Croatia has actually lost in all these years by bad policies, bad contracts, poor supervision and poor control and the collection of concession contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101774	Replica, dear Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101775	Dear fellow Pupovac, it was nice to listen to you during the debate, especially in the part where you said that you were all very supportive of this initiative because it was instigated by the people's spirit to preserve national interests and overpriced assets. And then you talked further in the debate about not caring, not being controlled and being spent as anyone wanted. Now who's to guarantee that it's not the same? And you and I are here to witness that Minister Hajdas Doncic here has been telling us about two flat-rate railways since the time of our Komadina, those short six months when something went seriously with the plan and vision. With his departure, that part of the story stopped. There was talk of a Vinodol Valley plain, and then we came to the story of a plain line from the Delnice tunnel to Fužin, and then again we made a decision here that we took these same highways away from the money they needed to pay for them to build these railways. There's not a word about these stripes today. Not to talk about everything else that's going on. So this government has fallen asleep as little children on the beach to build towers in the sand that each wave is clapping continues to collapse. And all of this that we've been talking about all day with all the few MPs who should be all over the world convincing us that their initiative is right, and they're gone, except here's the honor of an exception to Pedja who heroically defends it, we've come into a situation where we all talk more than those who should tell us more specifically and more about it. And I think we've come into a situation where we don't protect our interest at all and we don't control it at all, and I'm afraid that when this government goes away that some tunnels are painted multiple times in some rail tracks, turns in all of this, what HZ employees were talking about here on Mark's square, it's not going to be much more and more impacting our budget and the standard of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101776	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101777	Dear colleague, I don't believe we're going to discover the painting of the tunnel. I think that's what you're up to. But in one thing you're right, you're right about the wrong decision, you're right about the possibility that in the circumstances of panic, not seeing another way out, not seeing a different way of making a decision that isn't best. You're right here, and that's what we think is good, that this initiative reminds us that we need to think about what kind of decision we're going to make in this matter. Because if it's worth it to someone else, then we need to think about whether there's a chance that it's worth it to us too. You made some kind of suggestion, we should consider it. As far as I'm concerned, he wouldn't throw it away, but he needs to be stimulated and he needs to see if he's holding the water. One thing is certainly paradoxical and unacceptable, and that's to single out to build your own house, to make your own estate, you're still in charge of a huge loan so you can bring it to an end, and then after you get into a situation that you can't get those loans back because you didn't get everything else you need to pay off so you can turn it into a tourist facility or turn it into something else, you say I'll give it to someone in a concession because I have to. That's what we have to deal with, because if we don't put an end to it, it can be repeated years, years, years, and there's nothing from us. For that reason, we support this initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101778	Next replica, dear Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101779	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Pupovac, as counterpart Klaric said earlier, it's very nice of you to listen. And you really did, let's say a lecture on patriotic feelings... I will, and I will say that to my colleague Buric. [[You can't hear it.]] But the point is, don't take this literally, it's in the wrong place. This isn't the wrong place, but it's not worth it if you haven't been heard by those sitting in the executive office. But unfortunately, those who sit in the executive authority do not show much harvest from what you mentioned, which you did in your debate as an example. And unfortunately, I must admit that the proposal of the Constitution Committee is the same on that trail as the executive authority. And you mentioned the good intentions of the initiator, of each other and of any procedural error. But they do not exist, they are created by an artificial path and must be found only to suggest to the Constitutional Court that they make a decision as they wish to be produced and nothing else. And one more thing. You mentioned to your colleagues why there was a lack of legislative initiative on their part. I went to look in the cleaned agenda. Point 38 is my proposal for a law on the electricity market that only allows this Parliament to discuss the possible future status of HEP, and now we read in the media that HEP intends to privatise itself in whatever form. After all, the one that's offered for my concept is an even bigger prank, a scam, than some other one. Thank you. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101780	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101781	Dear colleague, don't judge too hard about the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system because there aren't many MPs who do their work, and he is one of them. What we can expect from him in this room is to listen, to listen to the arguments that have been made here. And one of the arguments that has been presented and you are repeating, which I think he should hear, which is a danger that we, by our decision, are suggesting or affecting the Constitutional Court on what kind of opinion he might have made. If there is in his text, and you point out that there is then until the end of this debate and until Friday's vote, I am sure that a colleague of the coat of arms, as he did in a number of other situations, will have the hearing to hear and to check whether the arguments presented here are relevant and these arguments will be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101782	Replica Peje Grbina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101783	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pupovac, it was a real pleasure to listen to your debate and I did it very carefully. However, when I prepared this issue for the Constitutional Court, which is what we discussed today, I did not ask for hair in the egg, procedural error or so on. I didn't have to ask for that. The whole way in which both the referendum questions are asked is a systemic error, and when we talk about telelogical interpretation then I will show you that it is concrete that this second referendum relating to public roads is the first referendum, the first civil referendum in Croatian history that is seriously explained. Just because I disagree with these arguments and reasons doesn't mean I'm going to deny to the organizers the fact that they wrote their argument very well. And I don't have to speculate there to find out what their intentions are. And when we read points 6.1 and 6.2, then I know, because it said that the position of the rapporteur of the referendum issue, that the concession on public well-being as a way of making public good is absolutely necessary to prohibit it, because the rapporteurs consider that they are not a good way to make public good, because the state thus ceases to fulfil its obligation. I don't exactly agree with that, and I think I explained it when I was preparing a letter, or the question that we're discussing today. And no, it's not my intention to influence the Constitutional Court. My intention is to substrate the Constitutional Court against arguments that it can reasonably decide on two different views of the same problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101784	The replica matches the esteemed Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101785	Dear colleague Grbin, you don't have to convince me of your intentions. But one thing I'd like to take from your replica. Isn't it finally time after the kind of concession practice we have and what the world is given, isn't it past time for the initiative to question this instrument of investment, investment, governance and management? Isn't it finally time for a small country like Croatia to start thinking about what's good for it? A colleague Shuker mentioned the Vice-President of the European Commission, and we listened to him together on the Committee on European Affairs. How many times did he use the word investment? After the third, I froze, because I realized what that meant. It's slavery. It's not progress, it's not liberation, it's not what's good for us. And the same thing, the same fears with me in this respect exist in concessions. Therefore, I have no problem with your explanation. I'm just afraid we won't understand the meaning of the initiative behind both of these initiatives. Come to the hospitals, so look at any of them, not to mention the hospitals where one of them might have been. The bed linen used to be washed properly and where it went and where it should be. And today you don't know where it went or where it should come from. So you get surgery from psychiatry, you get surgery on the other side of town. That's the result of, of course, the outsorcing because there's no order. In a country that is not arranged, there can be no order in this because it is only a way that under the company of increasing the number of jobs will make work cheaper, make insecure work and make circumstances such that it will actually grow insecurity from day to day, while at the same time the prospects that the increase in jobs will not actually increase over time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101786	The last replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101787	Thank you very much. You have well detected your problem with concessions in Croatia, as Mr. Shucker says... And in fact, who knows how many there are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you've well detected that in times past, and in today's safety, as well as the justification of certain concessions in terms of both cost-effectiveness and the conclusion of these concession agreements, they're not very correct. We have examples of concessioning or renting private property, and by the state, therefore state institutions starting with Croatia's lottery, tax administrations, renting space for various ministries. Here's an example of the Ministry of Ecology. Then concessions on the good seas, then ore concessions for the exploitation of sand, gravel and rivers. And what we're actually, actually this experience teaches us is that even this concession that's on the pier, we're going to see how things are going to happen, so it's not going to end so well. So experience teaches us that's not the case. Now, I don't know why Mr. Grbin is trying to do one thing, let him not be offended, one to say to a legal juggler, by sending to the Constitutional Court to keep his will, why he fears the will of a people who so plebiscitarianly expressed his will to sign on that petition to hold a referendum. So that's why we go to the Constitutional Court, so on the whole thing, the postponement, and so on. Here, that's not clear to me, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101788	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101789	Dear counterpart Grubisic, as there is a risk that the government or the city or municipalities or the authorised representative or representative body makes the wrong decision, there is also another danger, which is that the honest and fair intention of the people who launched this initiative in the context of general mistrust and the increase of fears of certain types of instruments in the economy and investment also results in a bad result. Therefore, the referendum is not the most rational decision-making process, that we understand one another. And when that is the case, we must get used to this practice and there must be some kind of control mechanism and for this aspect of decision-making. Therefore, do not resent fellow coat of arms for trying to take this matter seriously. What I would resent if I didn't listen to the argument coming from both of you and other clubs and when the assembly general wouldn't be ready to participate in the debate, and unfortunately one large part of the assembly today underestimated the importance of this topic and did not want to hear the arguments that people have been making here all day. And it is a great shame and it is certainly not the responsibility of Peja Grbin, the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101790	Here I am being signaled that colleague Branko Bacic has also requested a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't really share the opinion of some of my colleagues, or the enthusiasm of some of my colleagues, by exhibiting you, especially in the part where your context for criticising highway construction in Croatia was not clear to me. I didn't realize until the end why the investment in highways was blamed for other economic branches. A lot more when you know very well that, for example, more than 4 billion euros were invested in agriculture at the same time, 4.5 billion euros were invested in shipbuilding during that time. Therefore, it was a time when other activities were invested except for the capital road infrastructure. Why are they not at this level of quality that they have achieved in the transport infrastructure of the Croatian road today is another issue. However, I have reported more to the replica to tell you that the government, this government, instead of concessioning existing infrastructure, had a number of projects not built that could have been built through or concessions instead of concessionaries of existing infrastructure. You know well that they have inherited projects to rehabilitate the Sava River waterway, that it has inherited the Danube-Sava channel project, that it has inherited highway construction projects to Dubrovnik, to Sisak. That she could build the Pelješki bridge, that she could continue to build all the Adriatic ports or river ports. It may be an excuse that there could no longer be further deficits and new borrowings, but I don't think any of these projects could have been based on concessions that are now being offered to concession highways. Therefore, it was possible for the government to implement some projects using European funds, but none of them would be able to concentrate what was built.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101792	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101793	Dear counterpart Bacic, your question regarding the fact that the government did not give concessions, and it is to be built or planned to build, is a matter in place. And these issues should certainly not be discussed, although it is never too late this evening, it is a serious question, these are serious questions and I would like to hear the answer and it goes into a package of rationality and justification decisions to give highways to monetize. So in that thing, I'd like to hear the answer to the questions you've asked. As to what was not clear enough for you, so when highways and investments are on Wednesdays in other areas, other branches of a potential economy, it is clear to you that the roads were built at a time of so-called time. The construction boom. No roads were built then, houses were built, settlements were built, urban villas were built, and this was actually another important branch, which when it collapsed. Unfortunately, that's when he began to collapse and traffic on our highways. In the part of the discussion of HDZ club representatives, almost no one is referring to the state of traffic on our highways. We're all talking about possible side effects. And what's the profit, what's traffic and what's traffic justification we don't ask as a question, and what's the real interest of concessionaires in monetizing our highways? Which we're actually going to beat up, so not just possible debts, but we're going to beat up there because some of them are inert, and some of them are more profitable, and then we're going to give it all away, then we're going to do some price, that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101794	We're slowly making progress with the club debate. In the HNS club there will be spoken by the respected Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101795	Dear Mr. Vice President, a few colleagues and colleagues, this debate that followed in the evening seems to have gone in many ways and wrong direction. We are actually discussing a proposal for two decisions to be addressed by the Croatian Parliament to the Constitutional Court and we are not deciding whether anything will be put into the outsorcing of the so-called or concession or monetization. But right at first, I want to say that the HNS Liberal Democrats want to point out that protecting the liberal principles above all that we want the country to be smaller and that the countries should be less in everything, that there should be as little state interventionism as possible and that a smaller but more efficient public sector should be established. So these are the liberal principles that we do not give up on, these are our ideas, we propagate them and advocate them equally when it comes to human and citizen rights, and economic rights, labour rights, corporate freedoms. What concerns us is through a whole series of discussions that the concession as a model is trying to criminalise to that extent that everything that's given in the concession is the source of all economic Halls in this country, it's not and can't be true. There is no doubt that the experience of concessioning from the lowest to the highest level is different. And it always depends on who makes the decision to grant a concession and it is certain that many of those 5,000 contracts could have been better. But on the other hand, it's our assessment of what we want and what's really real, and do we still want the adventure, the ruins, or do we want to create new values? Yeah, but we can dream of worth a lot of money, and in practice it's worth nothing. Many of the concessions given in Croatia have led to job creation, new content creation, new values especially in tourism. A lot of grades were heard in the debate, and there was little argument that final evaluations would be made as a model of our evils. What concerns us is the creation of an atmosphere that further underlines not only the suppression of market freedoms, but also the creation of an anti-entrepreneurship climate. So all the most serious analysts in our economic problems warn that our public sector is large, inefficient and expensive. That the number of inhabitants works too much in the public sector compared to those who work in real. You have only two options to balance it, one is to create a lot of jobs in the real sector, and the other is to gradually reduce the public. The third is gone, and the ideal variant is the combination of one and the other with an emphasis on what you can do. We made as a state and all the economic doctrines that have been dominant so far, so much addicted to the state that it's actually worrying. And in this crisis of economic, social, social so many people have their eyes on the state and the public sector as a golden calf that will solve all their problems and that is the worst of all. So that the state rises to a pedestal and that still that syntagma employs my child in the public service means actually a lifetime of safety. That's terrible. We also raise new generations that just as we lived in another time, we don't think about anything in another time, we don't think about anything because I guess the state and the party are going to think about it and we're just going to do it. How much we work enough to boost confidence, self-respect, entrepreneurial culture, every man's ability to maximise his capacities and use them for the benefit of himself, his family, his community. No, I don't. It continues to promote values that mean less work, less community, when I speak together, I think about the concern of solidarity in the community but above all more creativity and the ability of man to turn his entrepreneurial ability, creativity into a new value, and that he lives on and that he creates a new value for others. If we continue this trend, in the end there will be no more jobs in the real sector at all, there will only be a public one. It is therefore a possible bad scenario to stop producing, to stop fully thinking about how to turn our abilities into creation, into innovation, into development, into new technologies, into as little dependence as possible on the state, and in fact to mobilise society's social capacities all the time. Since the principle of a preliminary constitutional check of constitutionality to the referendum initiatives and issues is not yet with us nor constitutional nor legal norm, then it is extremely important for the Parliament to make such decisions. We respect this principle and advocate for it and hope that it will very soon become constitutional matter through the amendment of the Constitution and through the amendment of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and, while this is not the case, the Assembly must bear responsibility by making decisions that every referendum issue should be checked in the Constitutional Court. From this there is no harm and it is the Parliament that will respect the word of the Constitutional Court as always. In this respect, the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats Club supports the proposal of the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system for both of these referendum initiatives to be presented to the public and how the signatures of the delivery to the Constitutional Court were collected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101796	Thank you. Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101797	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. A colleague of Beus-Richembergh, you said, mentioned creation, innovation and another third word that's about the same thing, so I'm asking if you think the outsourcing the government was talking about, and then you said that it wasn't, and so on, I'm not going to get into it now, so I'm not going to get into it, so I'm going to do the creation, the innovation of those 23,000, 26 thousand employees who are in this public service system in those places. Would that outsourcing accomplish it? That's all I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101798	The answer of my colleague, Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101799	Well, the government has definitely given up on this initiative at all, as you know, so we'll never know if it was possible to achieve anything better than we have right now. But no offense and no offense to anyone who works in the public sector, we from this house, and further on, we know very well what is the efficiency of individual services. And in this house where we sit, there are formal people who don't work for more than an hour a day. And in God's justice they earn great money. They're looking at each other's soap opera offices, and they're having lunch arrangements when they're going to see someone else's office so they don't happen to miss an episode. That's the reality, among other things, of this house we work in. Not to talk about certain services now, but that's how it's supposed to look the fact in the eye, who's paying for it? That's what taxpayers pay for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101800	On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Draženko Pandek and Ivo Jelusic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101801	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So the SDP club supports the decision to... on the calling of a State referendum on the adoption of the Law on the pursuit of accompanying and non-basic activities in the public sector, it is therefore directed to determine whether the contents of the referendum issue are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, whether these assumptions of the Constitution for the opening of the State referendum have been met. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, in its proposal for a decision therefore stands out, we find arguments that really lead to the conclusion that all of these, therefore, follow-up activities necessary for the day-to-day functioning of public and state services, including those currently carried out by external partners, could therefore be carried out only by persons employed in the public sector by the Law in the proposed form. In fact, the bill requires that such activities be carried out exclusively by employees, employees and tenants or persons in employment in the public sector. In that case, all these jobs, including those which are now normally performed by persons employed, therefore, outside the public sector, employees of companies or craftsmen, should therefore be performed exclusively by persons who are in the service or subsistence of this public sector. This would be considered to be such an arrangement and such strict restrictions as have not yet been recorded in our practice in the follow-up and non-basic activities. The adoption of such a law would therefore result in the cancellation of now existing public-private contracts and likely then layoffs in the private sector and new employment in the public sector. The Committee's decision-makers here have reason to believe that such a provision of the proposed law would question the entrepreneurial and market freedom in the Republic of Croatia guaranteed by the Constitution and would question the legal position of entrepreneurs on the market, which is also guaranteed by the Constitution. Therefore, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia prescribes that entrepreneurial and market freedom is the cornerstone of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia, and freedoms and rights can only be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people and legal order, public morality and health. When the Parliament makes its own laws, it is bound by constitutional restrictions. These same restrictions of course apply even if the law was passed directly in the referendum. We find it doubtless that the law whose adoption is intended to achieve a referendum, entrepreneurial and market freedoms are limited. This is especially because a large number of now existing contracts on the implementation of practical basic activities, as previously it was between the public sector and third parties, would have to be decommissioned and what would have been further excluded from the exercise of such activities. So, for example. If a particular autoservice could service vehicles to a particular private person or to a commercial company, it would no longer be able to serve the state or the public sector. Clearly, as we find this rightly, the decision-makers note, it is understood that the vote of the proposed law in a referendum under the force of the law would result in the termination of a number of contracts, now existing, between the private and public sectors on the implementation of a whole series of non-basic activities and that the compensation obligations to private contractors. In itself, it would not be disputed as far as law-making itself is concerned, but the question is whether, in a specific case, the Constitution has laid down the conditions for restriction, for such restriction of entrepreneurial and market freedom. In this case, at least it can be said that it is very doubtful, even if we could say with greater certainty that these conditions are not met here, especially if it is taken into account that even if the limitation of the entrepreneurial freedom allowed by the Constitution is the duty of the legislator, whether the law is passed through referendums, the respected principle of proportionality prescribed in Article 16. The Constitution. The entry into force of the proposed law would impose a further and significant restriction on the executive authority in the exercise of executive functions as it would impose great logistics and financial burdens on the organisation of the basic functioning of the public sector services. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has determined that any future request for the opening of a referendum, which shall be submitted to the Croatian Parliament on the basis of this Article 87(3). The Constitution must therefore contain a detailed overview of the facts and circumstances which led to the referendum issue on the proposed content and sufficient and relevant explanation of the reason why the referendum is to be called for. Here we find it right to note that the request and the referendum issue in question lacks this explanation, i.e. this detailed demonstration of the facts and circumstances which are the reason for asking such a question and an explanation, which is why a referendum is called for. The doubts regarding the authorisation of the law therefore in relation to constitutional legal facts also strengthens the fact that Article 26. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union explicitly stipulates that the internal market covers an area without internal borders in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is ensured in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty, although there are therefore certain exceptions. However, even with these exceptions, as explained in detail, there are a whole series of mechanisms, one is the proportionality test, to determine whether any of the measures are prohibited or restricted. In the light of the decision, the proposer elaborated and reasonedly came to the conclusion that we at the SDP Club agree that the proposed law does not meet the conditions described to satisfy this proportionality test. How the Government of the Republic of Croatia essentially gave up its intention to reach out to the so-called by outsourcing as a measure of rationalising public sector business, we are therefore of the opinion that there is no reason for urgent action and for the urgent implementation of this referendum. In order to avoid any significant material damage to the state and private contractors on these contracts, we find it quite justified that this request for a national referendum is addressed, therefore, to determine whether this content and the referendum issue are in line with the Constitution and whether constitutional assumptions for the calling of a national referendum have been met. There is really no harm in that, and therefore we will support this proposal for a committee decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101802	The respected Ivo Jelusic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101803	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the most persistent we're here. We today, this debate has taken a great deal of time because we have been getting into a measure of trouble, and in fact today we are discussing whether there will be a referendum and what it will look like rather than whether we will send this question to the Constitutional Court for review. But, well, we discussed it wider so we could discuss it this long. So what we're talking about tonight is whether we're going to refer to the Constitutional Court for consideration to assess whether this question is in accordance with the Constitution. Of course, out of the great debate today, and also in public, it has often come down or banalized,... Malta does not think anyone is against the referendum at all. I must immediately say that the SDP and the SDP club are not, in principle, against the referendums of any kind ever. However, we do not want in any way to disable the will of citizens, but it must be achieved in one prescribed and procedural way and it must have all the elements of a democratic act. So the first formal-legal assumption is fulfilled. More than 10% of signatures have been collected, thus creating assumptions of moving forward in the process. It is further the right of the Parliament to refer the issue to the Constitutional Court for assessment. Unfortunately, from the debates these days, we have seen that some question, that it bothers some. I don't see why. So why don't you ask the Constitutional Court? If the issue is in line with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court says it's okay the referendum will be no matter what anyone thinks of it, supported it or not. If the Constitutional Court says he's gone, and I don't see any reason why, especially for these of some of the initiators of the referendum, it bothers that this is being sent to the Constitutional Court. So it doesn't seem to matter whether it's constitutional or not, but to happen. We need to respect the procedure. I won't talk about formal-legal aspects much, there were words enough. So, the fact is, enough signatures have been collected. I'll talk more about the democratic aspects of that act, so not as much as it is, but how these signatures are collected. The very act of holding a referendum, including collecting signatures, is a highly democratic act. Is this what this referendum on monetization was really about? I don't think so. Not in my opinion, but I'm sure of it, and I'll show you why. So, the main slogan or motto under which the campaign around the monetization was short-listed was, it was on jumbo posters and on television etc. that if there is a monetization, then 80 billion kunas of the state will be left without 80 billion kuna, and that we can build 4,000 schools, kindergartens, etc. It was the main slogan. I used to watch a jumbo poster with that note every day from my window. I'm surprised it wasn't two and a half million signatures, not half a million. I'm really surprised because who wouldn't support something like that. If it's true that the state is going to lose 80 billion and give it to potential privates, and for that money, we can build 4,000 schools of me wonder who wouldn't give it a signature like that. I didn't give it, because I know it's not true. Most importantly, many promoters know it's not true. I've been talking to some of them and they're from the NGO sector that's also... And they know it's not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it went untrue, so I wouldn't tell a lie. And when it comes to false and false, incorrect information wants to collect support from citizens, then it's called manipulation. So it was deliberate to lead the citizens astray. And what's the truth? So it's not true that the state is going to lose 80 billion, that we can do 4,000 schools, the truth is quite different. The truth is, we're the 1054km of highways that are planned to be monetized, and we'll see. That's it, the procedure is under way, and we have the Constitutional Court's decision ahead of us. The truth is that they are built, but unfortunately it is also bitter truth, of course something more expensive than it should have been with more expensive loans. But what's most important and what's bitter truth is built mainly by other people's money. And that we owe those highways 4 billion euros, so about 30, 31 billion kuna. That's true. The truth is, in this year 2015, we need to give 5 billion to pay off those loans, next 2016. Four and a half, seventeen 5.8 billion, etc. So in three years somewhere 15 billion. About 5 billion dollars a year on average. The revenues of the Croatian highways of tolls are, mostly from tolls, alimony of revenues. So their incomes are rounding up about a billion and 900 million. Their cost for wages, maintenance of highways is 800, 900 million and remains conditional to say an excess of some billion. If these highways were made out of the accumulation of Croatian highways, or if the state had that money, it would have been more than billions, then 80 billion would have been collected in 80 years. But unfortunately not. It's made out of credit and every year it's worth 5 billion. So to this billion that remains as a conditional surplus to the Croatian highways, another 4 billion should be added. That's true. If we have to pay 5 this year, the next 4 and a half, etc., 17.8. So you have to add another 4 billion. Okay. Different credit obligations may also reduce this, but in any case it will always need to add three, four or five billion. That's true. So if we have to, then it's true. It is not true that the state will be damaged by 80 billion, so it will lose the opportunity to create 4,000 schools, but it is true that every year HAC does not create a surplus that it will bring, but it needs to be added to another three, four or five billion. Unfortunately, that's a bitter truth. I wonder if it wasn't conscious, but perhaps even in some unconscious spread of false information, false data, and if it hadn't led citizens astray how many signatures would have collected 480,000? Would you ever make that first formal legal assumption that you could even talk? I'm afraid maybe not. And that's because I'm so scared. Those who suggested, led this initiative, and they were afraid that they wouldn't be able to collect enough if they went with it, so they deliberately went with the truth, deliberately with the delusion that, because people don't know this data, they don't have to know it, but that's why all of us who know what it's really duty to say it, that's why they went with it. Therefore, I am in favour of never, in this case, bringing the democratic right of citizens to plead, but in order for the decision to be democratic, it must be democratically founded, based on facts and truths rather than delusions and manipulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101804	Thank you. Replica, again Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101805	Thank you very much. Mr. Pandek, you have actually convinced what the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, has said about this, just wrapping up all the gatherings in a single legal dispute, without respecting the answers of such a kind of legal and legal norms offered by those who have organised a referendum on highways. That's not right. So, when it comes to how your colleague from the club said about the ignorance and ignorance of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is a disastrous term, the question was in writing which existed in the polling of citizens. If you think that citizens are ignorant or that someone with propaganda or I don't know can seduce them, then you are in great error. The citizens said what they said in the number they said, which is over 530 thousand signatures or 15% of the RS electoral body. Not 10%, 15% of the RS electoral body with 3.5 million voters. Only 3.5 and nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101806	Answer me, Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101807	Thank you. We didn't say, of course, that the citizens were ignorant, so what we wanted was for them to just go to check, because it's better now that they go to check than when eventually the law is passed, and when there's potential material damage. No, no, no, no, no, no, No, and this is one precautionary measure that can only help, not harm. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101808	And another replica of Eve Jelusic will be spoken by Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101809	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Jelusic, I'd like this replica to remain on the fact that we're not going politicizing. So, I accept, it's your right to claim that the concession will solve something. However, the fact is that the total debt of ARZ and HAC is, and that includes a river bypass that cost over 300m euros, 4 billion and 200m euros at the moment. The majority of these loans were agreed with the EIB and the EBRD. And it's not exactly true about these interest rates, so much is said about which credit is and what years has been raised and how other companies in Croatia have been in debt. It's very simple, we don't have to convince each other anyway. And could you even get a loan in 2009. So that's 4 billion and 200, at this point in the course of what's 7.71 or how much that turns out to be somewhere around 32 billion kuna. And what's the key problem, at least to me, if the state gets 20 billion kuna for it, it remains 12 billion plus interest that will go to the state budget. Since we certainly won't get to a balanced budget for the next six or seven years, it means to us for the next 30 or 40 years to pay interest on those remaining 10 billion. And that's the key problem. And if we had been in the credit reprogramme, if we had left these 60 lipes, we could have financed everything in the next 15 years and the rest of these highways were in Croatian ownership the way they are. So it's freely your right to suggest this, but also give someone else the right to think in some other way. But I repeat, it's not good to throw yourself away because watch the EBRD and the EIB are the banks where we co-owners. You can't say they robbed us. And you can compare that loan from 2009, how the others were in debt, and then you can say if it's high or not a high interest rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101810	Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101811	I agree with the good part, so it's true that it's such a long highway, I said 31 I didn't turn into kuna but 32 is a billion and it's true that it's part of the loan you said. But he was also part of a loan that was unfavourable, of course. And right away, so it's not the point, so the reprogramme always stays as an alternative. So even if we succeed through monetization, quality, but be careful only if this monetization is quality, and no one can say about it at this time whether it's good or not because we still don't have offers. We have non-binding conversations, if I may say so, no official offers. It's only then that you need to see if it's convenient or not. No one can force us to accept an unfavorable offer for us, but let's not close the possibility of talking about something that can be favourable. Therefore, even if it is favourable and if we succeed in getting decent money for it, of course, the portion will remain always to cover part of the debt. Because we certainly won't get 4 billion euros from monetization. God willing, but we won't. But if there's one billion of them left, we can reprogram them if they're unfavourable. Of course, it always stays as rent for the rest of the debt and it doesn't need to, it doesn't rule out the monetization of the reprogramme, on the contrary. Because we're monetizing and we're not solving the entire debt, and it's always going to be a part of it, the truth is, God is a smaller part, and that's the goal of taking the huge load off our necks, and this part, if we can reprogram it even more favorably.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101812	We continue to discuss clubs and will speak on behalf of the HDSSB club, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would first ask my colleagues who are still present here in Parliament after 22.00 hours, can this Croatian Parliament solve anything alone without the Constitutional Court? And therefore this Croatian Parliament which has 151 MPs chosen by the Croatian people and those who are present here now but who are members of the citizens' initiative against the so-called monetization of Croatian highways. So they chose them, and those of the 530 grand they signed. However, the Croatian Parliament who, long ago said that there is only God above him, and it seems that it is not, but also the Constitutional Court chosen by the Croatian Parliament, and now we will choose two new judges of the Constitutional Court, we representatives here. And we're sending the Constitutional Court to decide. So why are we doing this? We see here for the Croatian Highway Reasons Committee. One of the most interesting reasons is that the opening of a referendum, one complaint would be said to be that the sadly regrettable act of the reference initiatives of point 1. do not correspond to the content of the request. So who says that if the referendum initiative has set up a poster that will build on that money that would be saved if there is no monetization of 4 thousand kindergartens and schools, that you have your own digitron as the people say calculate or consider it. And believe it or not, that's your business. You say 80 billion kuna, and when you look a little bit better, you'll see that they're right, that they're actually right. When you look at how much you get from the toll, and it bounces away on material expenses and wages, and you see how it goes, you'll see that they're right. Why did the government mention and insistently insisting on monetization fix a maximum of 3 billion kuna? And you, Mr. Jelusic, and everyone here who spoke. It's kind of maximum. Why 3 billion kunas, why not more? When on Croatian highways you can certainly earn more over 40 years, far more to make it worth even more. Perhaps it would be a different initiative, you might think differently if you got 4.5 billion euros for Croatian highways, I'm talking about concessions, not sales of course. It's like we keep saying 3 because I guess maybe there's already some kind of 2.5 deal, so they're gonna say when it's 2800, so we're almost there, so we're almost there. And whoever gets it in the concession succeeded, because what the Croatian state and the Croatian government did not know will be a foreigner. That is what they will know, earn on the Croatian highways by raising toll prices on all the relations they are and will pay the Croatian people as well as that loan for the former Zagreb-Split road in Yugoslavia when it was also a railway from Belgrade-Bar. So we will pay at the price of the toll to the stranger, the colonizer, the globalizer so-called. Today globalisation is a synonym for neocolonalism. The price will be paid by Croatian citizens, Croatian poor people and no one else. What does Mr. Heidash Doncic care? He's still a little short of a mandate, who's gonna pay for it. And he's going to reduce this dubiosis as he says. The Croatian state owes a public debt of 46 billion euros, 3 or 2800 we'll see, 2.5 we'll cut a little bit. And what is owed 46 billion euros? Both of you, both of you here and you there, that's a total half-debt, half that debt, both to HDZ and SDP. And when we hear here, we know that Mr. Taker in front of the SDSS was Deputy Mr. Sanader and Mrs. Kosor in the HDZ government now we hear so many regrets that I don't know her either, I didn't participate. Today doesn't even have to be the Taker anymore in the government, there are some others. What we are talking about today and it says we will now go to the Constitutional Court and that is good because we will be given the right word as the Constitutional Court says, etc. The people have spoken their own words, and we can't have parliamentary representatives running away from the will of the people, why are you afraid of the will of the people? Because it is the government and its majority is in the Committee on the Constitution of that same majority, the parliamentary majority that are almost gone today, because the government has persistently stopped to monetize Croatian highways and nothing more. Will they monetize Croatian highways? Well, yeah, we're going to be stalling, the Constitutional Court has been dealing with some disputes for four years, who knows when the Constitutional Court will pass a word on this initiative, he has time. So then perhaps after that, in the new term, when the roads are sold, they will be monetized, perhaps then they will decide that there is still a referendum to be carried out, a post-fest. That's how it goes, stalling with the will of the people, playing with the fire, playing with the fire you do. What to say about the referendum on the adoption of the Law on Implementation, says accompanying and non-basic activities popular outsorcing that we have now found beautiful Croatian words for outsorcing. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Unpopular words say accompanying and non-essential activities. "She saw a frog sweat so she wished." So our outsorcing, so it's in the modern like Western European countries doing it because it's a competition. For who? Only for those who take over, the market is open for him, he will collect and raise the prices of services and hospitals, and schools, and kindergartens and all with the same employees and will still fire them in half a year, with some minimum possible compensation called those before retirement, leave, give some church and leave those people. So then the state will take care of those people that the private will fire in the outsourcing and all of us together, along with those who pay taxes, taxes and everything else. We'll take care of them. For his gain, for his gain and nothing more and they'll black out instead of working on 12 squares as he now works at the hospital one cleaning lady in the operating room, they'll black out on four operating halls one and those three will fire the other. That's what's gonna happen. In this form of liberal and black capitalism where neither "Germinal" Emile Zola nor there the phenomena described are equal to today's capitalism in Croatia, this will happen. It's this liberal, black capitalism where in the 19th century it wasn't like that either in the novels of Emile Zola who wrote it, the naturalist. And now the competition, you can imagine, the competition, my profit, is that, that's just who we're gonna give it to. He said a long time ago that my dad worked at the Ship's Hospital, son, if there's any privatisation of the hospital, it's best to take the laundry, that's the most rewarding. Well, he didn't say that for nothing, 30 years ago he told me that. Don't take surgery, it's a lot of spending, etc., but you take laundry. Well, he wasn't crazy, he was a contractor, but he was smart. And that's how it would have happened. We've got new capitalists, new tycoons who are, who knows what way that so-called. privatisation of staff only. And the services to hospitals would already be collected at the start of 25% of the tax, the VAT he would pay, if he paid at all, if he didn't cloud the VAT. Already at the beginning 25% more expensive hospitals every favor from this outsourcing. And then when the people jumped, we won't be outsorcing now we'll spin off, and eventually the people with 612 thousand votes says... And now here in the House we're sending to the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker speaks foreign language, doesn't understand.]] So why the Constitutional Court? What will the Constitutional Court tell us? How can he be smarter than 151 here? We have chosen the judges of the Constitutional Court, the agreement between the HDZ and the SDP we all know, so it will be, and now that they are elected because it is the majority of the two-thirds 101 MPs, they cannot, if they are not both, mean one of yours, one of ours. That's how it works. So you know how it goes. You know how it goes. That's how judges of the Constitutional Court and all other officials are elected where the two-thirds majority is required. Of course, we don't stand a chance with our seven MPs or act, or influence it, nothing. And to participate, who like this the fourth judge in football, is behind the naked one who is. Yeah, it's a puppy kid. That's the situation with these referendums. And don't joke. I'm not threatening you, but the people will know and know what you're doing right now, how you're trying to twist in every way possible, but the team has prepared itself very professionally and every item you've brought here as a committee has legally explained your counter arguments that will appreciate the Constitutional Court whenever you want to. Because we know that you will come on Friday, you 76 and raise your hand for the decision of the Constitutional Committee. It's inevitable, we know it, there's no, there's no, there's no God, that's it. And what it's worth to discuss here, we've wasted our time, we've been beating around here for how many hours. How many times have I told you that the referendum you have established only because of the entry into the European Union that allowed three people in Croatia, three citizens to go to elections and if there are two for the European Union and one against Croatia to go to Europe. You didn't listen, you didn't set the censorships, and now you're coming back as a boomerang that's the same thing in your head, when the people started to hold referendums, it's coming back to you now, as a boomerang, today you spent all day on a referendum, whether to vote in the police, whether to vote in the offices of the state administration, whether it will be electronically, and anyway. And in the Constitution there is no electronic vote, gentlemen, you cannot vote electronically because it does not say in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for voting. You're getting rid of your ticks. Now the referendums return as a boomerang to your head because of what you did not wrong, but went maliciously and badly towards the Croatian people when they entered Europe, for a referendum on entry, when only 40% came out, only 40%. So you didn't set up a numerical censorship. But very easily you set the censorships, Minister Bauk, etc., when the initiative on behalf of the family gathered 380 thousand signatures, said it should have been 430. So how long, what, what? When we are in Croatia now there are not even 4 million of us, perhaps in these two years, four years as it was a census. Moved out 200, died even more than he was born, we're out $4 million. If it's 800,000 children up to 18 years of age, back away from 4 million 800, 3200 who have the right to vote. And how is 380 thousand not enough lists for any initiative? It is embarrassing, embarrassing how you manipulate Croatian people and Croatian citizens and also in connection with this. Croatian highways however anyone thinks here, even got tantiums and applause are the pride of Croatia. I wish they were proud of both Croatian railways and Croatian waters and Croatian forests and waterways and maritime well-being, where luck lies. And the oil industry and energy, but it's not. Well, at least we've got roads. And let's not keep talking, we spent, so we spent money, they were overpaid. The first highway was built by Caca. How? Like my grandma Peusha took out a loan and made a freeway. I'm Nobel, you can think about the Nobel Prize and now let's go back. So he continued Sanader, and so on. There's all sorts of things going on, and we're in a pub, and we know each other, and there's this Soapunar guy, and they're all over him, right, and there's gonna be more of that. We know everything how. But you gentlemen are no better than the SDP, you're no better, not at all. Don't let me talk about the concessions you've been giving and who you've been giving because it's going to be evil. Therefore, I will not be in favour of the decision of the Constitutional Committee, but I will be in favour of a referendum on how the people wanted to be implemented. There you go, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101814	We're moving on to replicas. First Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101815	Here's my colleague Grubisic, no matter how late you are, but you've offered me because even in today's debate, in the past debates and I'm aware you're not coming from the HDZ ranks, and you've ruined power, and you don't come from the HDZ ranks, and you've also tampered the HDZ government, but I like this rhetoric tonight, and we've asked ourselves here a few times. HDZ says it is in debt along with SDP's government in '90. in the year 150 billion, with the SDP in that government in 2001 and 2004. I spent 60 billion, and we built so many Croatian highways, we did something that is Croatia's future and for the development of the economy, and look at this SDP government, we spent along with you Hrelja laughing, with you coalition partners... You're not listening to me, Boro. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm talking about Hrelja, I see you're laughing, so I say as a coalition partner who's beautiful now in SDP's power spent 140 billion, no highways, no railways, no capital investments. I think my colleague Bacic was saying, we left you finished projects, and Plomina C and Omble, the airport, it's been waiting for two years, here's where something finally started to work, and I'm not talking to all those other gold capital objects. And I'm asking a question, so let's really wonder where those 140 billion were spent during the 3.5 years of the SDP government looking out, and there's no capital investment. Well, even if they built this railroad that we've been talking about in HDZ for years, we're talking about a low-level railroad, but it's being philosophized, and it's going to be low-level, and it's going to be this, and it's going to be nothing at the end. Here you are, critic, ask a question, and ask them to lay down accounts that they spent 140 billion kuna in 3.5 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101816	Replication response, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101817	Comrade Lucic, don't take me for a tongue. Namely, we know where the paintings and watches and art jewelry are... That's all Croatian highways got, I know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, we know all that together, and the people know, maybe a little shorter to remember, forget it quickly, forget it hard, and quickly forget our people. It's a sad phenomenon, but my God. But where is each other's money? If you go in, if you could get into certain accounts abroad, you'd see where they are. They're not in their socks. They're somewhere else. But I'm not exculpating these or these.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101818	Second replica Ivo Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101819	My colleague Grubisic, I know that you will not support this, this proposal to go to the Constitutional Court's assessment of this decision on monetization, but I did not simply believe that so much would bring mistrust to the Constitutional Court, Malta, not that it was unnecessary, unnecessary, irrelevant, etc., the Croatian Parliament is sufficient, etc. I think we should respect, we Croats must learn to respect the general and also here in the Parliament of our institutions, and not when we respect them, when they do not fit. Until yesterday or recently, when the Constitutional Court reached a verdict that was very passful to you, you were very confident when the Constitutional Court was, however, pleased that the Constitutional Court would say something, and now that you expect that perhaps... otherwise, you should not respect the Constitutional Court, what we need the Constitutional Court. As for that,...for the will of the people, however, we are for the will of the people and I have said in a statement on behalf of the club and now I am saying, if the Constitutional Court and we should allow it to plead, says that the referendum is okay, the referendum will be, the will of the people will be respected that it will happen and the will of the people in the referendum will be so. No one will question the will of the people, so he agreed with it or disagreed, that's for sure. As far as the highways are concerned, you said they were our pride, so they are, and I'm proud we have highways. You know, if you were even more proud, we'd make them with our own money. So it's nice when a man buys a new car, buys an apartment, builds a house, and when he earns it, he should be proud when he earns it and builds himself a house or buys an apartment or buys a car, but when he takes a loan he can't pay back, is he really supposed to be proud, I'm not sure. It's a good thing he solved his question or had a car, but he should be even more proud to have earned it. So Croatian highways are good to have, and where we wish we could make it and pay for it, we now have to pay it back, and Croatian highways unfortunately can't pay it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101820	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101821	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelusic, you see the banks now propose to the Swiss, so to those who have raised to give their houses either to the state or to the bank and to be rented in their houses. Is that a good solution for you? So be he whose house it is to be in his own house in hire. It is also for Croatian highways, they are in Croatia but we gave them up for monetization and rent. And one more thing when you say, if you make me highways with your money, so that's another reason why I won't say you're proud that we have them, but also a reason more to put more effort on the reprogramme, on all the possibilities of the other than sales, both in any way, to allow them not to go into monetization. Well, there are solutions, so here's a hundred times here and today Shucker's finance expert told us about it, I won't, I'm a doctor, I don't know anything about it. And as for the Constitutional Court, I didn't insult the Constitutional Court with a single word, I was just talking about the way we choose them. Did I say exactly that they are elected by the Croatian Parliament of 2/3, by the SDP and HDZ agreement. Right, right, and don't say that I spoke against the Constitutional Court, and that Mr. Glavas waited four and a half years for the Constitutional Decision, and that's true, and that's right after the European Court of Human Rights has ordered the Constitutional Court to settle under the urgent Glavas suit. That's how it was. And this may also happen to go to the European Court of Human Rights and to whom Mr. Grbin, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, will sue. 513,000 citizens? So let him sue, and let him sue.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101822	And the last replica, Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101823	My colleague Grubisic, as usual sharp in his performance and you talk a lot, but here the thing is more than clear. This is referred to by the Constitutional Court for just one reason to gain time and to delay. And all today's debate we can talk as much as we want to go in the direction that future such or any other referendums, showing the will of the people are disabled. Because even under the current law, these people didn't collect signatures just like that, it was an initiative for the preferential vote "In the Name of the Family". They haven't been able to collect enough signatures. What logistics needs to collect so many hundred signatures. In the end, we also have manipulation in the speeches of Minister Bauk. We don't even know exactly how many voters we have and how much that percentage is 10% of the total number is 380, 390, 3 million 800 or 4 million, or I don't know who knows who in this country anymore. Here's the goal, intently clear. Get as much time as possible, pass a law that will disable any such future initiatives in advance. It doesn't matter if the signature was collected in Ban Jelačić Square or in the Office of State Administration. And he doubts the credibility of my signature, of your signature. I gave mine in Varazdin, and I live down in the river. Then I was supposed to go to the state office in Rijeka from Bakar because that's where my state office is. They have to look for a location where they'll be signed so transparently and clearly. If anyone suspects anything, we can suspect that someone will use the signature in the State Administration Office. So people did the job. There must have been some kind of logistics behind them. And who will force me or you or any Croatian citizen to sign anything if he doesn't, if he doesn't like it as a question. I think things are clear here. You cannot accuse any previous authority or any other in the sense that the rules have not been clearly laid down. But now it's a problem, because rules like this have been clearly laid out for seven months now, and we've been talking about it, and it's trying to draw a line and make any kind of initiative impossible by new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101824	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101825	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric, I don't know if you've heard but I was very offended when I heard from one of our colleagues here he spoke just before, that the signatures were collected in obscenity places. Obscuriously, he literally said so, so he stated then, quoting in front of which obscenities and said in front of churches, in markets, in main squares, etc. If they're obscenities, maybe for him they are, for me they're not exactly those places. Maybe he just wanted to stay at the churches, I don't know, maybe he thought it was obscenity, cadmara obscure means dark camera, dark chamber or whatever you want. So, dark places, black places, they want to criminalize signing. That's the goal of it, and it's coming from the speech of other speakers on this side, to me right, but, well, colleagues, I'll run from the left. So there's another one. It is said that 4000 kindergartens were written on posters, that it can be made from the money that would be made from our highways if we go to the reprogramme, etc. And why didn't the government take the countercamp? So whoever defended the government that represents the second objective, the second interest, has to make no countercamping. He's got money, he's got everything, he's got TV, he's got radio, he's got public, she's got non-public, it's got commercial, it's got everything to do with the anti-camping. And she did, we all know what happened, but for nothing. In vain of all the anti-camping, in vain of all the political machinations done by the government and by Minister Doncic, Minister of Transport. The people gave 513,000 signatures and there's no committee here and I don't know who can undo it, and it has to be done. The people have spoken theirs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101826	We're continuing to discuss clubs. In the name of the HSU Club, the esteemed Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear guests at the gallery. It's a little difficult at this time being concentrated, a lot of things have been heard but we'll try to stick to the subject because otherwise it's my custom, so I'll say next. The incredible dust was raised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's announcement of the separation of accompanying and non-essential activities from the public sector. It has not come down to this day, and outsourcing has become the most commonly used, and an extremely hated foreign word in a period of just a few days, a few weeks. But the phenomenon isn't new. We've had a job-supply in the last state through the operation. Co-operatives were second-class workers, less paid, etc. We've had a concession job so far. So we've come to one point, one critical point where frustrations have grown quite well between trade unions and citizens because everything is possible because of poor communication to further dissuasion of workers and workers. In how great the fear was that the public sector employees would find a large part of them without a permanent job or be transferred to private companies dealing with these affairs and thus be left to employers whose profits are first and workers' rights are at risk, the best says that the Organisational Committee on Voter's Declaration on the need to request a referendum to provide 563 000 815 signatures, which is a very, very respectable number and which has been assessed as very credible. Therefore, more than half a million Croatian citizens want a state referendum on the adoption of the Law on the implementation of accompanying and non-basic activities in the public sector and that the simplest way is to prevent the measures under consideration from being taken by the Government as well as the comprehensive ban on the separation of any accompanying activities from the public sector. First of all, it should be noted that, in a comprehensive concern over the possible outsorcing decision, there was certainly a media campaign that presented the statements of certain members of the government and the union, but also sought the testimony of workers who had not been sufficiently addressed to the subject as well as most of the Croatian public. It cites how such an extent is considered, but without presenting to the public a concrete plan in which it is planned to do so certainly favoured the emergence of a negative climate over the whole issue. Most often we could read in the media how this plan saves 700 million kuna annually, but the savings presented in this way without in detail, again one English word, without a detailed cost of benefit analysis or cost analysis or effects can only be interpreted in a way that savings goes over the back of employees, in this case the same ones that would be affected by the interpretation of such a decision as an unpopular measure. The outcome could also be predicted at a time when, as usual, anti-measures that are perceived as unpopular, a referendum is proposed as a way of doing the will of the people. However, the question is raised, and I do not want to offend anyone, does more than half a million Croatian citizens know in which all ways can be implemented by the separation of accompanying and non-basic activities from the public sector and are they in any way and in which of these models of workers' rights threatened? I think that the level of knowledge of this in Croatian society is minimal and that as a society we do not communicate about the phenomena that our bread is always. So there they are, among us. We're not getting enough light on certain phenomena and certain models. On the other hand, the government once again informed the public through media steps that outosorcing was the most rational solution for cost reduction, said workers through this model would preserve jobs and labour rights and reminded that EU guidelines allow for the protection of their rights over a period of 1 to 5 years. However, there was no adequate public debate, again through the media we could hear the experiences of other countries where the UK was highlighted as a bad model, and Italy as a good model. It is assumed that Croatia should make its own model taught by other countries before it, taking into account its own specificities. However, there is no indication of who can guarantee the quality of the service that would be provided through the separation of activities, nor who can vouch for the contractual rights of 26 thousand public sector employees, which would be referred to by a new employer. So it's all stuck at the very beginning. Of course, there are standards in certain public sector jobs that must be kept. You can't let anyone cook meals in one hospital. People, it's too risky. So you can't talk that way. Either we put everything in the outsorcing or nothing. It can't, there must be criteria, it has to be very selectively approached. That's not what happened. The signatures are collected, we're here where we are, and there's a question of what to do. The Croatian party of pensioners or MPs welcomes the decision to issue a question to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of the referendum issue, since it is nevertheless a guardian of the constitutional and legal order regardless of all the authorities of the state authority that enjoys the highest legality and legitimacy according to the issues mentioned in this case. And we can individually think about whatever we want. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System states in its decision that the opening of a referendum when required by 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia is not allowed when it comes to a concrete decision taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the powers laid down in the Constitution and other laws. However, given that the government's decision must be confirmed by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, as clearly stated in the section of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, the question is whether it is allowed before the government's decision can be approved by the Parliament to issue a referendum on the announced or decided by the Government. In addition, we have certain dilemmas about guaranteed entrepreneurial and market freedoms as well as possible discrimination over state service admissions. Therefore, because of the many obstacles that have been made today and perhaps because of certain improvements that the applicant should seriously consider in the form of amendments, we can only say that the Croatian Party of Retired People will support this decision to refer to the Constitutional Court. What I can personally say is that the right time for possible outsorcing was in 2008, at a time when we had a serious face-to-face with the ongoing crisis, when the social partners were at the height of the task and that then it was the right time to discuss these possibilities, of course with a very selective approach, of course using the possibility of going to retirement naturally through a lifelong severance institute that all union centres back then support and today support. And I say then it was time to talk about it and part of it agreed among the social partners to spend, of course, the savings would be. Today, according to all trends in the EU, it is too late to exorcise, it is too late to spin off. Today, EU countries are dealing with another problem and we are an EU Member State, dealing with the problem of how to hire young people, how to hire people who are harder and more employable groups between 50, 55 and 65 years old, and increasingly give incentives so-called. social entrepreneurship or all non-profit organisations, institutions and cooperatives to deal with such activities, and in the experiences of others that I heard yesterday in Riga, it is a very serious competition for companies that, which take over jobs in concessions of course because these companies are interested in profit and here we have the same jobs competing non-profit organisations in social entrepreneurship projects. So it's worth saying that today is another time and for such activities too late. As regards the long referendum issue, the referendum initiatives gathered under the common name We do not give our highway, she submitted a list of voters from the application for a national referendum on the regulation of the issue of giving Croatian highways in a concession, which found that 498 545 credible voters were collected, thus achieving the legal criteria for calling the referendum. However, this extremely sensitive topic seems to require a more detailed determination of the content of the referendum issue itself, because we agree with the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, as shown in the very proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, that the referendum issue applies to the prohibition of all public roads in the Republic of Croatia to a certain type of concession, and we believe that it should be defined in accordance with the name of the initiative itself. We hope that the Constitutional Court will determine whether this committee is right when it states that the absoluteity and non-critical nature of the ban on public road giving in a concession indicates the arbitration and disproportionateity of the proposed law. In doing so, we understand the intention and what is said in the discussion from the position of the intention that the referendum initiative has begun to understand and in any case we have nothing against the referendums and against this whole activity. We also believe it is necessary that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia determines whether the proposed law has set out outside the framework of the referendum issue implicitly stating that the Committee claims that there is a need for full removal of the concession institute for public services from the Croatian legal order which we believe is not the case and that there is no intention. The arguments mentioned and in the case of a decision on the occasion of a request to call a referendum on the adoption of the Law on the pursuit of accompanying and unfounded activities in the public sector have been taken by this committee to the effect that the referendum is not allowed in accordance with constitutional interpretation of the decision taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its own jurisdiction. The argument of guaranteed freedom of entrepreneurship and competition is also re-used. But it is also announced that, in the case of a Constitutional Court decision authorising a referendum issue in this form, the EU Court of Justice will also give its opinion. In addition to supporting the decision to request the Constitutional Court's statement on this issue, the Croatian Party of Retireds needs to point out several factors which undoubtedly had an impact on the launch of a referendum initiative. As the most common remarks so-called. the monetization of the highways of the civil society association, trade unions, civil initiatives and other entities gathered under the name We do not give our highways have expressed doubt, among other things, that through the concession of public roads, all relevant circumstances are foreseen to regulate the relationship between the concessionor and the concessionor. They also believe that due to the nature of the good, in this case public roads and the social benefits they serve are necessary to provide for a special concession regime that allows long-term and true road infrastructure control. In public often mentioned natural monopoly, then mentioned contractual obligation to make up for the difference that arises from less traffic and other media inscriptions have contributed to the fear and mistrust of Croatian citizens in the idea of giving highways to the side or any concessionary. The public perception was that roads as a national treasure were sold and these were some of the factors affecting the perception of monetization as a negative way to find money to improve the balance sheet of the state register and reduce the excessive deficit. What cannot be denied is that the Croatian public was exposed within a very short period of time to a multitude of contradictory information where the initiative carried out a much stronger media campaign than, for example, the restoring ministry, where the minister himself said that perhaps the problem he does not know how to explain in a simple dictionary what it is and what the PR agency is not engaged. He also stated that a good concession agreement can solve a matter so that both citizens and states can be satisfied, as well as a potential concessionaire but a clear model of such a contract is not presented. In the end, I find it important to point out, regardless of the outcome of the Constitutional Court decision, which, as many times as possible, will provide answers to questions that have proved to be resilient in the conduct itself when it comes to the referendum, gives a voice of almost half a million Croatian citizens something that should be taken into account both in this and in all future decisions. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry considers that the signatories of the referendum initiative are poorly informed, it would be worth asking whose task it was to fully or as best as possible inform about possible proposed highway management models. And something in the end quite personal. We Istrians have different experience with concessions, we're frustrated because we built a tunnel, which we got bonds there in 1978 that were worth it, I was working until then and I was in a working relationship so I bought one shoe, that's probably what my colleague Ada did, but the fact that it was formally what the citizens invested, gave back to the citizens. But it still frustrateds the fact that we were building a tunnel so it's given in a concession like let's say the foundation of a future concession contract. But it is also a fact that the concession for the Istrian ipilon was concluded at a time when no other business contract could be concluded in the Republic of Croatia. And it's made up in a way that it's short-term so that. And in parts, by segments, so that any negotiations on the extension of the concession could potentially correct what had previously been wrong or not known. Thus, it turned out that the first section of the highway for the performer was the most profitable because it was routed into the stone itself and was practically not supposed to bring a ton of rock outside the highway route itself, and that was extremely favourable for them, but the conditions had already changed in the extension of the concession. What the citizens of Istria have signed in large numbers, however, they want the government's decision to extend the concession on the continuation of the construction of the Istrian ipsilon. There are no more international contracts down there that can't be broken. Although I would if I were in the government's position I had thought very much about putting my man, the government man and who represents the interests of the state in the concession board to cut their costs to a minimum and not to live as lords and to change the fleet every year. To reduce this to the minimum necessary that the state pays for such a small part, a small part because the state is obliged to settle the difference in the concession contract compared to what is earned through earnings on that highway share. So here, I also wanted to make a personal contribution that wasn't all so harmful in that concession. Of course, it carries with it frustrations, but if the model is attached to certain criteria and if it is under continued pasture, or attention, then these models are not too much to reject. And I agree with all those who commented that all these roads were ours but they weren't ours until we paid them off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101828	We've got two lines reported. Dear Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101829	I thank you, Vice President. I've been listening to a discussion so quietly all day, I keep my mouth shut, but you've finally moved me to say a few words. True, you encouraged me by mentioning our tunnel Učka, which, well, I was just beginning to work, but I didn't give the bonds, but my parents did. And the truth is you said, I could buy one of those shoes afterwards. And we built our money, we didn't build credit, and the tunnel was ours and it went into concession. Today we're talking, we don't give our highways, but unfortunately they are on our ground, but they're not ours yet, we haven't paid them off. So I think it's a little wrong to ask a question. And because of that, as the head of the local self-government unit, I advocate some matter of constitutionality, to examine constitutionality. Because as the head of the local self-government unit when I propose any decision, any conclusion to the council I am very much questioning and checking whether it's constitutional, whether it's legal, etc. Therefore, surely that is a good question. Unfortunately, where it's fortunate that we had so much money that we built highways ourselves, that we don't have to use outsourcing etc., but my parents taught me that we can cover ourselves as long as the blanket is long. But this blanket of ours, someone's been keeping it short, short, short, and now he's asking us to put not only ourselves but five others under it. Unfortunately, we have to pay back our loans, our debts and these for our highways. Fortunately, those loans weren't raised in Swiss because they'd have an even worse problem today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101830	The answer to Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101831	Well, dear colleagues, thank you in the part where we agree and what is part of our life experience together. So we lived in the same neighborhood with the same problems and in the same way applied to the song lending and building Učka tunnel. But I'd look back on this other part of you. So we can talk and today the link between tourism and highways has already been said several times here. And I know reliably that once the highway brings tourism, and second time tourism is looking for a highway and it's not the same thing as always. I wish we could have done it ourselves but you know the Slovenians had their high written inscription Slovenia is building its highways and Slovenian companies are building highways. And it's all great and wonderful, but their banks have failed. So there's no ideal model. It would really be a great blessing for every serious country to do what we need ourselves, to have a sense of measure, but we're quite a euphoric people, and we run into each other like we thought we'd have double pensions from the first and second pillars, the question is what will happen, time will show it. So here we thought that huge tourism would bring us highways, yet these results are a little more modest and today you're free to drive and very safe on the highways and on our Istrian Ipsion and on the Dalmatians, that I don't speak in Slavonics because often I go there, it's really empty. You know it's so empty that the cafes at the gas station shut down, it says so in itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101832	Second replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101833	There's only one Petrol gas station on Slavonica and it's not even closed... It's not even a coffee shop, it works, it's just not at night, maybe you've been traveling at night. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you're saying they're not our highways because they took foreign loans from the EIB, the IBRD, the EBRD. It's not the time when you say "Savka's mother, and Tripalo's dad, raises a loan that doesn't come back." We can reprogram our loans, there are ways, even tips are given, and you are now wondering why people believe Mijata Stanic more than Hajdash Doncic. So did he say he'd take the highway to Dubrovnik through Neum and behind Neum? Did he say he would never build the Peljeski bridge, at the beginning of his term he immediately said. Did he fulfill his hopes in the recovery of the Croatian railways, he did not. Ruined HZ-Cargo. So how can you trust the man who did all this? Well, it's better if Mijat Stanic is a traffic minister than Hajdash Doncic. Are you saying speaking a language that we don't understand? What language does that speak, is that... Croatia. I don't know what we're talking about here. So, did this initiative say that no government has the right to monetize, means either HDZ or SDP. Is that a party thing, it's not. It is a Croatian road for centuries and will remain a Croatian road, however you rebel. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101834	Answer, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101835	Thank you very much. Of course, it is a highway that is Croatian because it is located in Croatia, but my house, while I had a loan to build a house and a mortgage on the house, was not mine until I paid off the loan. I'm sorry, but that's how we do things by the rules of law. ... Okay, I'm not an advocate of such transfers, and I'm just saying what's true because there's no difference between a private life and a country's life when it's in debt. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The debts of the sea and this is a serious problem and each minister will face and any union leader who will cover this area will not escape from this problem. I'm not defending, I'm no one's lawyer, not one minister, not one government, I was just quoting in my speech what someone said at a given time. The very conclusion and the minister that perhaps the citizens did not understand the speeches in support of the fact that communication with the citizens was not good enough, as well as communication with the social partners that are the important link of this society. I ate that bread, and I know how important it is to talk to the workers' representatives about everything that awaits us in the company or in one activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101836	We have an individual discussion, the esteemed Brano Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I must say that it is unacceptable for me to discuss a referendum on the monetization of Croatian highways in an almost empty assembly, with only 8 or 9 MPs. I keep this absolutely inappropriate given the importance and importance of the topic that we are deciding on. Croatian roads, Croatian highways and everything they mean to the Croatian economy, the Croatian state is indeed inappropriate and I cannot find a single word that could justify that we discuss this at 23 hours on this referendum. However, it is obvious that the SDP and the ruling disagree with the referendum on the monetization of highways and that they are against the referendums, i.e. that they are for the monetization of highways, and that this procedure of sending a letter or decision to the Constitutional Court in a certain way they want to if the Constitutional Court considers this issue to be unconstitutional of itself in a certain way, because they will thereafter continue to monetize the highway. So, we at the HDZ Club are absolutely against the monetization of highways personally, regardless of what the Constitutional Court said. So the Constitutional Court can say that only a referendum question is not properly asked in a certain way, it can decide for some other reasons that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, but the fundamental question here is whether the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia is justified to give Croatian highways in monetisation. This is a fundamental question, and everything else that we can talk about is whether the government has found the PR agency and the minister, so they have failed to well inform the Croatian public that it is justified, it is an all-expensive game of words, but the fundamental question is whether the economic, traffic interests of the Republic of Croatia are good or not being well monetized or given Croatian highways in concession. I believe it's not a good project and it's neither economically justified. First of all, what was to be done was that the Government had to come to the Parliament to discuss this in the Croatian Parliament before the government had thought to call an international competition, and the Croatian Parliament should be informed of all the possible conditions that such an agreement would contain. That's the first thing. And the second thing, it should have been made clear tonight, several times the cost of benefit analysis of what the Croatian state is getting from it, and what the Croatian state is losing from this monetization. On several occasions at the thematic session of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, I asked the Minister to explain to me in a simple dictionary what we as a state, as a people, are going to get financially by giving highways to concessions. He couldn't explain it to me. There is a record from that thematic session in which he could not in any valid, reasoned way convince us board members that this is a good project. We are both on behalf of the club and Mr. Boric and I spoke, said Mr. Shuker, most of us who commented on this monetization showed that by truly monetizing the Croatian state will eventually lose 40 years, that it will lose significant financial resources. I can't talk about the exact amount now, because I don't have enough data myself. But in any case, Croatia will lose the state with monetization of Croatian highways and significant funds. Whether it is 4000 schools and kindergartens or more or less I can't argue about it, but it is precisely why an appropriate study of the economic justification of such a project should be done. In this way no one in Croatia will know what and how we will go into this project after the Constitutional Court adopts it. I don't think the Government is getting this kind of time by referring to the Constitutional Court. I don't believe it because I can't believe that until within 30 days as long as it is, in which time it takes the Constitutional Court to respond that Minister Hajdas Doncic would dare to sign a contract or make a decision on monetization with some of these concessionaries. I can't believe this could happen, so I'm more prone to the SDP hoping that the Constitutional Court will bring this down, they'll say it's not in accordance with the Constitution, so it'll continue to be monetized. But even if that were to happen, the Constitutional Court would say that this is a referendum issue contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or not in accordance with the Constitution again, I do not believe, given that this referendum issue is behind half a million Croatian citizens so that the government would ignore it and that it would have enough power itself to continue this process. So also in this variant that the Constitutional Court assesses that the constitutional issue, that the referendum issue is unconstitutional, I believe that the Government will come, must come to the Parliament with the law and with everything that should be done and what should be done, convince the parliamentary representatives and also through us the Croatian public that this is a worthwhile job by the Government. So even if the Constitutional Court found that this question was not constitutionally expected that the government would withdraw by hand and come to the Parliament with a law in which we would discuss all aspects of possible concessioning of highways. I am against it, I say against this concession, but if the Government has its own political position, let it first explain it to the Croatian Parliament, and through us parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public, it makes the job absolutely transparent. The second thing, I think the government had, if she wanted to go into that project, I think there were a number of other options. I don't see why the rest of the highways the government didn't go to concessions and that's in the first row for those that were not built. A short time ago, Hrelja's colleague spoke of the Istrian Ipsilon, BINA Istria. We know what happens to the Zagreb – Macelj highway, therefore I see no reason why the Government did not continue the highway construction project through concessioning for those shares that were not built if it was already intending to go to the concessioning highway. On the other hand, it's not clear to me that before she did this job, it's like one of those creamy work that's been done so far. But if she decided to do so, then she shouldn't have changed the Law on Public Roads before she went to that job, where she took 60 lira excises with Croatian highways, and now she claims they don't have enough money to repay the existing loans. How will they have when they were taken a billion kuna with that decision and given 400 million kunas to Croatian roads and 400 million kunas to Croatian railways. If only those funds had then ended up in investments, they would have justified it in a certain way. But Croatian railways, meanwhile, did not make a single project with the money. I believe that these excise funds ended up in crafts to cover some of the debts of the Croatian Railways without obtaining the result they had while they were in the Croatian highways. Our Minister Doncic assures us that if sold, or given in a concession of highways, that the Pelješki bridge will be built. Well, respected colleagues and colleagues, in no document of the Croatian government, there is no Peljega Bridge, not in any document. It is not available in the Transport Development Strategy, it is not in any agreement that has gone towards European funds and we still expect a feasibility study of the bridge to be done, that only then will we know whether the bridge will be built. So it's a floscule when the minister speaks if the highways go to monetization we'll build the Pelje Bridge. So, it is still far away because neither he nor he is clear whether the Pelješki bridge is the best way of transport integration and he is still expected as well as the European Commission to be about making a final assessment through a study of the justification of the Peljega Bridge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101838	Here's my colleague Bačić, you're complaining about this topic at 11:00 p.m., but we started this topic at 9.30 this morning, and we've only been driving that topic all day. So we're talking about her, among other things, at 11:00 p.m. because the HDZ club keeps replicating itself, and now you're going to hear a replica from your club. But before that, the replica of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101839	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bačić and a little while with this calling that there is no initiative to discuss in the Croatian Parliament I must object to you. You know, I've been here 12 years, and at a time when you were in a position on this side, there was a little more initiative. A little bit more, though, I must admit, the initiative you've been taking anyway. It's obvious that all of our ex-post minds are the best quality of our minds. And what I would refer to is your exposure, so you can see that other options are open after the signing, that no institution stands firm with its views, and it is absolutely if it gives up monetization, if it goes into privatisation, which the pensioners have shown, and I'm very interested in how we're going to discuss it. I'd really like to have a real debate here that's a role and how pension funds can take over, either in privatisation, or in monetization. It's two different procedures, two different concepts. For privatisation, an absolutely special law should be passed and it cannot pass past the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, they were alive and seen. But there are some shifts, we don't have to be happy with them, but there are shifts in attitudes. After all, we will not wait so long for the Constitutional Court's decision and does not guide the Government, but the Croatian Parliament points to the Constitutional Court to an assessment of compliance with the Constitution of these two initiatives and that is the right of the Croatian Parliament, not the Croatian Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101840	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101841	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'm going to answer to you, and this point has come to the agenda, and I think it's 6:00. We discussed the referendum this morning, the referendum law, and this point came at 6:00 and here we have a debate. And as for my colleagues, I think you've made the wrong criticism. Namely, here I am specifically directed on behalf of the club, i.e. the HDZ club was almost three years ago that I had referred to a parliamentary debate of a resolution on road construction. Here's exactly what we're discussing right now, and we're not quite up to it yet. And today's agenda is 54th or 55th, which means by the end of the term, we won't discuss it. Therefore, so much for how stimulating it is for us at the HDZ Club to write anything, although you know that we have also written a Law on the Maritime Good that has been discussed and immediately and rejected, etc. But when you say that today's government, and the previous opposition, was more betraying in writing certain drafts of the law, it is true. However, what they wrote as an opposition when they came to power did not implement anything but were just doing the opposite of what they suggested while they were in opposition. Therefore, it was more so at the time because of its own promotion and it was their right. I don't see the point after the opposition has written some laws and these laws are always somewhere at the end of the agenda to write them at all because the job is becoming redundant and there's no use in such a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101842	Next is the inevitable replica of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101843	Thank God, I was seven hours at the County Assembly of Brod-Posavina County, this morning from 9 to 4 and now I came to the Croatian Parliament and I didn't have to but here. And I came here to discuss, not to keep my mouth shut. So that's why I'm unforgivable. And you either right or wrong. Mr. Bačiću PR Minister so does he need the PR when he paid 10m euros for making a study for the monetization of Croatian highways? Couldn't the agency that worked for 10m euros have done something like that to the PR for Mr. Minister for such generous payment of the study on the monetization of Croatian highways. That's one thing. The Minister of Tourism has his own PR and spends money, I'll tell you in private how much and who. The Minister of Health pays the French-Serbian concept to make master plans for Croatian hospitals. The minister pays the second to draw up a plan to sell Croatia's insurance to the domestic bidder. And it's been paid, too. All PR paid. So the income tax was abolished, how much money did it add up to the state's register? If we were to add it all together and what we invested in the so-called information, it's like a fairy tale what the Bosnians would say would have money for those 3 billion, we'd be able to raise without a problem what someone else would give for monetizing Croatian highways. But there's no plan, there's no sense in doing it, no desire, no will. Nor do they want to give up their luxury by this government. Furthermore, the Peljeski Bridge is an ordinary dried carrot to which Mr. Minister Doncic offered us a carrot you will receive the Pelješki bridge if you do not sign the referendum. Well, when it's not signed, you won't even get the Peles bridge anymore. Now you need it. That's what some people think. And panic is because there's really no money because they couldn't make money in the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101844	Time. The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101845	Energy, telecommunications, banks are all in hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101846	Comrade Grubisic, time, for the fifth time I've told you. The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you can see that resolute ministers don't respect their Prime Minister too much. Namely, you remember counterpart Grubisic that two years ago, the president ordered ministers not to use the PR agency and there was a storm in the Croatian public, especially the agencies opposed that they were denied the right to work. I think they were thinking about the constitutional lawsuit against the government because the Prime Minister banned the use of the PR agency services, so that in the end what you said would end up with every minister having his own PR agency. And when you mentioned Minister Doncic, didn't he find an agency that was supposed to write a concession agreement so he wasn't satisfied, the money was spent, as it ended, the epilogue I really don't know. And as for the credibility of Minister Doncic right on the Peljesk Bridge, he showed how credible he is. First, the bridge was an illusion for fools, and then there was a ferry solution between Komarna and Briesta, and then there was a tunnel solution under Neum, and then there was some coupling through Neum, and now we finally have to ask the EU whether we needed bridges or not. In fact, we still in Croatia, according to Minister Doncic, don't know if the bridge is the best solution, so maybe as you said, we'll put on a ponton to solve this traffic connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101848	And in 23.25 sugar at the end, the replica of HDZ's HDZ, Franjo Lucic Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101849	With pride, Mr. Vice President, and leave your scruples to yourselves tonight and sleep with them at home when you can answer nicely. My colleague Bačić, I would not be surprised if this government signed this decision with one of the concessionaries who came forward because, as you can see, they don't get over anything, they just don't hesitate as much as they did in 2001 when they were in power and they have annulled all the collective agreements and these worse people know, where HDZ was coming back in billions of kunas, billions of kunas. So they don't have a vision, if they had a vision, they'd already speed up the highway issue, the issue of building the Peljev Bridge, and they just wouldn't find themselves in this situation where we are today. Several times I spoke this government repressively implementing something that was not allowed by law. So as the Constitutional Court annulled their decisions, replaced the ministers, spent 140 billion in 3.5 years without making any highways, railways, or any capital investment of vital importance for the Croatian people. What are we talking about? Here's an example of the government in the Republic of Croatia. The Vice-President of the Parliament is mocking the MPs, with his incursions and so, it is the face of this government, it is the image of this government, the vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Imagine 23 hours, but we have to stay until morning because you don't give in this government, you don't let the people hear, so at 7:00, this law is put in place, just like around a few days ago, the Law on the Sale of Agricultural Land. People are not being heard but put here you see in a deaf time in 24 hours to discuss the monetization of highways, and so is the Law on Agriculture, the shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101850	First of all, I didn't make fun of anyone. I called your replica sugar at the end, so I don't think it should be dirty. And that sugar will be answered by Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101851	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's to the end, fellow Lucic, a rare project, a major project this government announced did not end in an affair or give up. Be assured that this project with monetization even in negative for us and for the initiative do not give our highway decisions of the Constitutional Court will not end that way, it will not. I am convinced that the government will not have the courage and go at this moment to monetize the highways because so many in the Croatian public have asked open questions that delegate them that they can bring this process to an end and that is why I am not saying that this is a buy of time, but would still be the happiest it seems to me that now the Constitutional Court says that the issue is unconstitutional that I can get myself out of this elegantly. Similar to this project will happen to you also with the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, in the same way the same schlamperaj was shown by the Government, again going past the Croatian Parliament in one procedure very risky, against the law, against all the strategic documents it has brought, and this Croatian Parliament is going to go into one project that will eventually come around your head. And that's where I fully agree with you, the government has had ways, had the opportunity to do it right, but I'm afraid the government doesn't know that, and that many of its attempts to start with the announcement of a tsunami of investments, of this project, of what I mentioned earlier and of many others, and even of the outsorcing, have shown that something is going on when in the Croatian public the climate is slowly retreating and trying to smooth it out through the Parliament. And not to say that citizens through their initiatives are mostly stopping at this job through a referendum that happens or this way through the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101852	I'm closing this agenda. I thank the Honorable Chairman of the Constitution Committee, thank all those who participated in the debate. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 A report on HRT's business, followed by the report on the work and implementation of the control of the legality of HRT's work, and by the time we work, it will depend on the number of replicas. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101853	Let's move on to a new decision. Proposal for a decision in the context of a request for a referendum on the adoption of a Law on the implementation of accompanying and non-basic activities in the public sector. The debate on the text of the decision is over. The amendment was submitted by MP Boro Grubisic. I would like to ask the honourable representative, Pejo Grbin, on behalf of the motioner, to be shown about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101854	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment in question shall be rejected for the same reason, since all documents which have arrived in connection with this referendum will be forwarded to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101855	An indication of the applicant for the amendment of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101856	The same is the response of the amendment promoters as the last amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-25-0.u101857	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The debate is closed. I'm putting it to the vote... Excuse me, thank you very much. We have the same situation with the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Laburists because they have not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so we do not decide, we do not declare. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I set out by a majority of 79 votes in favour of, no abstentions, 37 votes against a decision on the basis of a request for a referendum on the adoption of the Law on the implementation of follow-up non-basic activities in the public sector in the text as proposed by the Proposer, Proposer, Committee to.
