ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110266	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs to the earlier announcement before the start of the debate on the final proposal of the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, we will look at the documentary film "Sunčica" by director and producer Nikola Knez on the earthquake testimony of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War. I believe that showing this film will contribute to a better understanding and quality of the debate and legal arrangement of the status and rights of victims of sexual violence. Let's watch this movie.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110267	(CONTINUES AFTER VIEW OF THE FILM "SUNCICA" AT 9,43 HOURS ) Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the film has caused of course emotions strong but before we move to a regular session, I must say that we have a past, I will repeat what I have already said these days, we have what we have and we cannot change it. But we can, we have to work to make the future better for us and for future generations. We must act towards Croatia's future in democratic standards, in a democratic world. It's a guarantee that evil won't happen again. Regardless of emotion, I ask that the debate take into account the sensitivity of the subject and not fall under the impressions that the film has caused. And now we're going to cross over to work on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, second reading, P.Z. No. 685; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. These are the provisions of Rules 194 to 202. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You have received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. Does the Government of the Proposer want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Defence Minister Predrag Matic, please welcome the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110268	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here's after this impressive movie I can only tell you that, you know, I'm from Vukovar, personally I know almost all of these people who were in the movie. I've seen the film several times, I've talked to the victims many times, and the impression is always the same, just as it is safe now and with you and it will be longer. So now, after almost 24 years, we are certainly aware of how late we are with this law, with this legal arrangement of this problem, but let us be comforted by that people's "Better Ever" so here we are today to fix, to hear more legal provisions, to try to fix them even more if there is a possibility. Here, I'll take out this opening part and we'll hear about it later. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War. Some suggestions from the session of parliamentary committees and plenary sessions were adopted in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, the debate and the harmonisation of legal provisions in the working group on lawmaking and consultations with the interested public were held again. Important changes after the first reading in the Assembly, in addition to technical improvements in the text are as follows: the definition of sexual violence is complemented by adding an expression during the armed aggression on the Republic of Croatia and by calling for a Declaration on the Homeland War. The definition of sexual violence has been arranged by calling for the International Legislative Framework of the Geneva Convention to address the problem of protecting the civilian population in war operations. The definition is extended by sexual slavery as a form of sexual violence and is open by adding other forms of sexual violence comparable to weight. The definition of the perpetrator as unnecessary has been deleted, but Article 3 defines the victim of the alleged military characteristics of the perpetrator. The focus of the law as we have always pointed out is on the victim, without emphasising and detailing the person who committed it. However, it is necessary to highlight the military characteristics of the perpetrator in order to make a distinction from a civilian perpetrator who cases are not the subject of this law. A provision on citizenship has been amended as a condition for the status of the victim at the time of sexual violence, and instead the nationality of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed as a condition for the party at the time of application. Members of the enemy military and paramilitary troops have been excluded from the exercise of their rights under this law. The rights of the heir to the first inheritance order to the cash compensation and for the victim who proved sexual violence to life by means of a judicial judgment or any other formal evidence have been regulated. Money fees are prescribed and implemented by this law and not by special law, so there is no longer a need for the adoption of a special law governing this matter or the need to set up a foundation. A one-time cash fee of 100 000 kuna or an increased cash fee of 150 000 kuna for a qualified form, or more severe consequences of surviving sexual violence, as well as a monthly payment of 73% of the budget base currently amounting to 2427.98 kuna. Deleting is a deadline for applying for the exercise of the right under this law, all costs of the procedure fall on the burden of the state budget, not only when the party demonstrates its status and succeeds in the procedure. The text of the law has been nomotechnically improved and proposed and has been quality completed. After more than 20 years of sexual violence in the Homeland War, the victim of the sexual violence of a woman, but also men will finally be entitled to treatment with respect and the right to acknowledge her suffering. The comparisons of this legal solution with existing legal solutions in the region indicate that its adoption will improve the standards of achieving the rights of surviving sexual abuse not only in Croatia but also in other countries of the region. For the first time in the region, and should be noted that such solutions are rare in the world, victims of surviving sexual violence are granted a dignified amount of one-time material compensation in response to the failure of the state and society in their protection and exercise of rights over the past 20 years. At the same time, the corresponding amount of monthly material compensation corresponds to their basic life needs. The right to additional health care, medical rehabilitation, targeted specialist reviews, annual systematic review, participation in psycho-social programs answers the question of their impaired physical and mental health as a result of surviving sexual violence and other war trauma but from the absence of systematic care of society over a long 20-year period. The exercise of the right under this law will be an expression of social solidarity and justice. A special law that applies only to victims of sexual violence on the one hand strengthens social awareness through empathy for victims of sexual violence and on the other hand is a clear condemnation of the culture of impunity of sexual violence during wartimes. It should be pointed out that, as rarely so far, this legislative proposal also satisfies NGOs dealing with this problem. We are sure that these legal solutions will be copied and copied to other countries of our environment or around the world. And for the end of two weeks ago, we were in the UN and the UN Women's organisation dealing with this issue is extremely pleased with this legislative proposal and invited us to participate as representatives of Croatia and with this law in their conferences, which will be held in Istanbul and Beijing by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110269	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We've reported two replicas, so we'll do it in a row. Dear Representative Zvonko Milas replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, of course this is all you said that every one of us and I mean everyone who looks and listens to this is supportive and supportive. But I'm sure the law will definitely not be the one that will give the victims respect and dignity. Victims can only gain respect and dignity because of us, because of the environment, so because of the support of their families first, the community of all of us who live here and who are here today, and some of us are aware of everything they've been through, both they and all the victims of the Homeland War. However, that is not the way we see it also by the fact that none of the members of the minority communities today found time or space to look at this film and to witness what happened to them and everyone in the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110271	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110272	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, it's a good thing that this law has come into the parliamentary procedure, but to say that the associations and victims of sexual violence are perfectly satisfied. It is not true because they have put their comments which some are respected and some are not. I would only refer to the one in Article 2 which reads "The war crime was committed in the circumstances of direct aggression against the Republic of Croatia" as "that they committed military and regular forces in the operations carried out". It's that controversial part of this law that's been brought to a great deal of attention. Otherwise, I would say that this law should be called the final proposal of the Law on the rights of victims of the beastly actions of those aggressors who were storming the Republic of Croatia. That's what you should call yourself because only beasts can do this. This is unnecessary in Article 2 and think more, and the HDZ Club will probably want to fix the amendments too, so try to appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110273	Thank you very much. Please do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the committees want? Yeah. Dear Representative Furio Radin on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Here's your colleague, Radin. Join, engage, however you wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110274	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed this law as an interested working body at its 64th session held on 22 and 29 April 2015. The Committee was presented with proposals for amendments to the Ross War Victims Center. In the debate, the committee members specifically referred to the provision of Article 14 governing the conditions to be met in order to determine the status of victims of sexual violence. The opinion is expressed that there are insufficient reasons why reasons remain on the condition that a person at the time of sexual violence was a citizen of the Republic of Croatia since a large number of people did not have regulated citizenship at the time of the violence. It is also highly likely that many victims did not have a neatly regulated residence or residence especially when it comes to refugee and exile populations. It is therefore proposed to remove this formal obstacle which would prevent the recognition of the victim's status in such a way as to allow for the application of other evidence which could confirm that the person was in the Republic of Croatia at that time. The questionable solution referred to in paragraph 4 may also be members and assistants and associates of enemy military and paramilitary troops, members of international forces, EU citizens and third countries. In particular, although one part of the understandable restriction given the budgetary potential for compensation of victims to all victims of sexual delinquency was committed during a certain period and by the perpetrators defined by this law should be allowed to determine the status of the victim, which is within the jurisdiction of the Committee for Victims of Sexual Violence. An additional explanation of paragraph 3 of Article 10 has been requested, which regulates the appointment of a graduate lawyer, i.e. the magistrate of the ministry's rights. The opinion is expressed that there are no well-founded reasons why only one profile would be performed. It is also requested to clarify the provision of Article 27 which regulates the right of the heir to the victim of sexual violence that passed before the entry into force of this law, or to whom all of the order of the heirs may be covered by that provision. It is also suspected of implementing the provision of Article 37(7) which regulates that the Republic of Croatia has the right to regress from pests or from legally convicted persons for sexual violence committed to the amount of cash compensation paid after the debate has been carried out, the committee has decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by 5 votes to, 1 against, 3 abstentions, to adopt the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, with the following amendment, in Article 2 paragraph 1, the word is deleted directly, and to add to subparagraphs 6 and 7 which vote, fornication, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, torture and other acts of sexual violence that offend human dignity, particularly humiliating and degrading acts, all serious abuses of sexual nature which are applied to the physical and moral integrity of persons and 2nd paragraph of marriage. Sub-paragraph 6 becomes sub-paragraph 8. In paragraph 2 of this article, words or threats are added either because of fear of violence, coercion, captivity, psychological oppression or abuse of power against that person or another person by exploiting a forced environment as well as by a person who is unable to give real consent. The amendment proposes extending the definition of sexual violence in a way that extends the list of illegal actions so that the provisions of the proposed law go as far as possible in favour of victims of violence. Despite the fact that fornication and sexual harassment do not have the same weight as part of the sexual violence already listed in paragraph 1, Article 2 of this proposal of the law has been assessed to include the law in order to ensure the right for those persons who, according to these grounds, could receive permanent trauma in view of the war conditions of the action committed. Finally, it is also proposed that sexual violence be prescribed and coerced into marriage in accordance with international humanitarian and war law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110275	Thank you, too. Honored Josip Djakic, chairman of the War Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110276	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, esteemed representatives of associations, colleagues and colleagues. On 24 April 2015, the Council of War Veterans Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal for the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government by the Act of 2 April 2015. The Committee held the discussion as a parent body in accordance with Article 91(1) of the basic Regulation. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The proposer's representative introduced that the intensities of this law are the approximation and alignment of the Republic of Croatia with international practice in the obligation to prevent the sexual violence committed in the war. It allows victims of sexual violence to rehabilitate and satisfaction through the recognition of their suffering in the Homeland War. Victims are provided with psychosocial assistance, legal assistance in the exercise of rights, health care, accommodation in institutions for providing support and services to defenders and victims, as well as other persons, providing them with monetary reparation and compensation for transport costs in the exercise of law rights. The law will enable the establishment of a unique record of victims of sexual violence and the collection and pooling of data on perpetrators to sanction them. The final draft of the law completes and extends the definition of sexual violence, excludes the possibility of exercising the right under this law to members and associates of military and paramilitary units of aggressors, the deadline for the exercise of rights is deleted, the exercise of the law on the burden of the state budget, the right to cash compensation, one time and monthly, and therefore there is no need for the adoption of a specific law or for the establishment of a foundation to ensure the means for the exercise of law rights. The victim was placed in focus, the emphasis and detailed person of the perpetrator was avoided. The provisions prescribed by the composition and the number of members of the Committee for the Determination of Sexual Violence have also been amended in accordance with the observations set out in the debate on the draft law. In the discussion, the committee members stressed the satisfaction of respecting and including the observations made in the first reading of the law. In particular, the provision of financial resources for the exercise of the right under the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia and the establishment of a focus of the law itself on the victim. The remarks are addressed to all the name of the law where the Homeland War should be replaced by the term "In the Aggression to the Republic of Croatia.". The term "redarative" should also be thrown out because it implies members of the Croatian police, i.e. the Liberation Operation "Storm" and "Blash" as well as others. The time period set out in Article 1 shall be brought into line with the time prescribed by the Declaration in the Homeland War when it is already being invoked. The opinion is expressed that it will be difficult to prevent the exercise of rights to the members and associates of the aggressor army because we do not have such a register. It is necessary to sanction the perpetrators, identify the exact number of victims and to establish the necessary financial resources. It is proposed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia consider the observations made and, if possible, install them through its amendments in the text of the final draft law. After the debate was held, the committee mostly voted, 6 votes for and 3 abstentions came to the conclusion of the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, is supported, yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110277	Thank you, too. There are no other presidents on the labour reports. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the club of Independent Leftists and the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110278	Dear President, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues. It is difficult, although President of the Parliament said that we are trying not to lead this debate under the emotions that are connected to this film, it is very difficult to shut down completely and let's say now cold heads. The fact that justice that is slow is not justice. On the other hand, it's better than never. After 23 or 24 years, someone took the courage to go there at all. It's not an observation to anyone why someone hasn't done it before, but the fact is that justice loses its meaning if it's waiting so long for the good part to not even welcome it. As far as the law itself is concerned, I agree with the minister that this is an improved version of that first reading, that a good part of the remarks that came from the opposition lines that it was accepted and incorporated into this bill but there are also some things that probably no colleagues had ever seen before, and neither have I, I must admit, from Article 18 of the Law to Article 26. In each article, the user "can exercise the right". And why doesn't "user realizes the right" stand? You know that in our laws when it says, it can mean it won't. When it's usually written, it means none of it. The user, in my opinion, is exercising his right and cannot exercise his right. For example, Article 26, the user may make a monthly fee in respect of this and that. Which means that it is on someone's good faith whether it will allow, will not allow, as soon as the user has already acquired certain rights, some preconditions exist and I see no reason to stand there "can achieve the right" but should stand "the user is exercising the right". That is perhaps, this formulation may be used precisely for the reason that in Chapter IV. The evaluation and sources of financial resources for the implementation of this law shall be subject to further implementation of the law or the means of payment of cash compensation, in accordance with the budget available under the allowed budgetary limit of the Ministry of Defence. So what now? We come to the realization that in essence this law could be a list of good wishes, good intentions accepted even from opposition, but it simply does not implement them with an explanation of the situation is such a, financial, excessive deficit, anything that can be used to justify why someone or something will not be satisfied. We now had a few days ago, last week we had the same similar situation where we had to fix something for the money so we didn't do it because it was a simple political decision. I also hope that the Proposer, i.e. that the minister will have the understanding and listen, will consider it if he does not respect it, but at least look closely at all those remarks that have come from the associations. And what colleagues read as the board's conclusions, I think that if we don't adopt it, we should respect it, but at least consider it one more time. But now I'm going to do a little bit more about something else. All these rights that are here days and be realized in a 100% amount and be all realised. If we haven't solved something else, then we're all out of this. Then it turns out that we're actually washing our own conscience and that through some financial conditional terms I'm not going to say we're buying broken souls, because if it's normal for someone 23, 24 years of still walking around their town and still being forced to look their eyes in the eye with someone who's done such evil to him, then we haven't done anything but try to really wash their own conscience. I think it's primarily, but I also agree that it's not the subject of this law and it can't be in this law, but it doesn't make sense for us to have our judiciary in every one, we haven't had a law or topic that we've discussed here without looking back at the problem of our judiciary, but here it might be the most pronounced one. And if we don't fix it, we don't change something, then it's real, I don't know what to say. And the question arises which I think is that even two, three associations have asked the question of compensation for damages. The damage compensation is paid by the Republic of Croatia, meaning all taxpayers all together, and in which way and when and how the Republic of Croatia will settle down from those who caused it, if we have that solution. I know it can't be the subject of this law, it's clear to me, but do we have a solution at all, does anyone do anything about it at all? To me, this is some sort of Solomonian solution where we take responsibility for the settlement of people who have been killed, and on the other hand, the vistas, I don't know what we're coping with from doing what's normal. It's not a reflection of any hatred, it's not a reflection of impatience, but it's normal, it's perfectly normal to ask someone to do you any harm if he did that to you. I don't see what's going on here. But obviously in the minds of our politicians, those who make a decision is a lot of it disputed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110279	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got a few replicas, so we'll do it one by one. Honorable representative Drazenko Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110280	Thank you. Dear colleague, you have embarked upon the beginning of your presentation in the nomotechnical interpretation of certain provisions of this law which I think you have misread. In fact, when you talked about the user being able to use some right, so the public might have gotten the wrong impression that if it was prescribed that someone could then depend on volunteerism, on some discretionary basis of someone who decides whether to give a right. It's not like that. So if it is written in the law and it can exercise its right under certain conditions, if it submits and fulfils those conditions, it simply exercises that right regardless of what an official who has to decide on it, regardless of his will. So if it fulfils the conditions and submits a request, it shall exercise its right. He may or may not have to apply. So if the different formula that you've proposed was used, that he's doing the right would actually come to the same thing, but I think this is still a better formulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110281	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110282	I'm not a lawyer, I think you are. The fact is, as soon as someone is a user, it means they've started some procedure, that something's already been done. On the other hand, the experience that we have with our laws gives me the right to have a reserve, and I have pointed out that, especially because of chapter 4 of the evaluations of the sources of financial resources for the implementation of this law, where it seems to you that it doesn't have to be cut out, but it says here. I'm deliberately banalizing now, but it really says that it depends on the financial situation of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Defence in that context. And what does it mean to be entitled, and you can't achieve it, what does that mean to you? Nothing at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110283	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110284	Dear colleague Novak, you're quite right to say that sentence that you're going to say something that doesn't appear in the law, and it's very much about the law. Here in the movie, we saw a sentence when a lady who's been committed to a crime said that the rapist has been working in the headship for 12 years. We are taught in the film that the US Constitution says that those who have sinned against the state have no right to be in public office. That's what you can imagine when we're terrified of how terrible the victims are. It has to be solved once and for all. These people can't do public work. First they need to be convicted, they need to get a proper sentence and then there's a punishment for not committing public affairs. And it would just, rather, be said that this law should be named by beastly law, in fact by the Law of the Beasts, but it is entirely wrong. If you declare these men beasts, then you amnesty. First, the beastly act is instinctive, this is a planned crime. This was done by the people who planned, who have sinned against the laws, who are criminals, who are criminals and who must be responsible for these crimes. Therefore, we must weigh our words and not amnesty for criminals who deserve not only punishment in courts but also the condemnation of society, and one of the condemnations in society is that they cannot be dealt with. We often talked about it here in the Parliament. The worst is when criminals walk free, not just walk around. It's even when they're headed by some communities. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110285	Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110286	Thank you very much. I won't even comment on this part of the name of the law, I agree with you. The part that you just mentioned about the movie about a month ago I was at the promotion of a book, a book that he wrote I don't know now the exact name isn't at the end of the story, a book he didn't write but was published by the Colonel of the Croatian Army by retired Ivica Panje Orkan. There are some 200 documents in that book if I'm not mistaken, documents collected during the time, or after the Storm, but all dating back to the time of occupation of that territory. There is countless evidence of crimes, of the crimes of people who are in the institutions of the Croatian authorities today. The state's attorney's office isn't responding to that. We have a situation that a few years ago, this same person to a former minister at least says, claims to be a former minister who today has brought two travel bags of evidence of war crimes from the area, from the Banovina area. Nothing ever happened. So it's not just the responsibility of people who, let's say in these today's institutions, but for many years, it's repeated, nothing happens. Nothing's going on. It's sad that someone gets so much evidence and doesn't react at all. And then what can we say?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110287	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zvonko Milas, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Novak, you said it was hard to rule out emotions from a debate that refers to such a sad subject. Well, here may be the time, but I can't resist, just one little digression try to put yourself in the position of these people and all those victims at a time when they showed their feelings and emotions in such a way as to introduce Cyrillic as the official language in the area of the city of Vukovar. I don't mean anything bad, I just want to say, let's try to figure out their emotions for real. And what I wanted to say in the replica is, you said in your last sentence, the funds will be out of the budget, the deficit, this, that. You're absolutely right. As long as we're all wrapped up in conversation and once we're done with politics, they're going to ask those who are responsible for the aggression, so for everything that's been done and for this, everything we're talking about today. Once we ask for reparation of the damages for all those human victims, for all the damages, for all the horrors that have been done in the Republic of Croatia. And therefore we do not make it clear and loud to the Republic of Serbia we issue an account for everything that has been done on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110289	Thank you, Your Honor. We also have a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110290	I don't know when we're going to look and why we're not up until now, and if it's about the incompetence of our legal teams that we always agree on on a political basis and not probably on some kind of professional basis. I don't know if that's the case, but it's what I'm concerned about and when we're gonna ask for the responsibility of our personnel who don't carry out what they have to do? Well, here's DORH's primary responsibility. Where is he in that story? But all those years and then finally what do we have? We even have a candidate for a constitutional judge. Oh, we really do have some moral values that we're fat-assed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110291	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110292	My dear colleague, you spoke of this law as a law which resolves damages. That's not how I experienced it. Therefore, this law does not regulate compensation for victims, this is humanitarian law and should be interpreted as helping the Croatian state to facilitate life. The damage compensation is something else, and this law cannot prevent a single victim from seeking compensation from the state or representatives or from one, a country that has practically committed aggression against Croatia, which is Serbia both in front of the International Court and in general that it can seek damages against Serbia. This is an important difference to me, because, in practice, if we take this law as compensation for damage paid by the Republic of Croatia, then it is completely wrong, completely wrong, and I think we should make one more difference or clearly define that this is not the Law on damages and that any victim over whom the war crimes were committed has the right to seek compensation from Serbia or the International Court of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110293	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110294	Dear colleagues, you are a lawyer, I am not, perhaps I have succumbed to media writings, so I've been overly based on that part. However, that is the part. It's not like that part isn't an integral part of this law. But as far as this second part is concerned, damages from the Republic of Serbia. Well, maybe that question would have been more appropriate if you'd asked yourself than I did, since you were part of a government. And on the other hand, I didn't get the impression from the perspective of an ordinary citizen I didn't get the impression that any government has ever shown any real desire and will to solve this issue and that 20 and a few years after the end of the war to bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110295	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The Club of Representatives of the Independent List and Honored Representatives Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin, share the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110296	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I consider this to be a difficult topic, but it needs to be said about something. I don't know, I didn't deal with it, whether there was a war in the history of humanity or wars that didn't commit a crime against exploiting the weaker sex, or sexual abuse. And it was simply accepted as a rule, not an exception, that's how it was done. However, today’s media communication and today’s sensitivity to certain rights of persons have conditioned this demonstration of rape and testimony. I'm sorry I haven't been to that presentation since the beginning, but it puts us all in front of a very difficult and responsible task because how do you compensate for the human dignity injury? Can you do that in cash? I doubt it, I doubt it can. And if there's anything to be done, I'm also convinced it should be done. If a person feels that this would contribute to the mitigation of certain consequences that these individuals suffer. However, we do not need to be exclusive. If it is accepted as a rule that this has been the case, then those who have committed these crimes on behalf of other nationalities should not be avoided, and if someone reports and has been in the Republic of Croatia, it should also be sanctioned. Equally, the victim is a victim, and the crime is a crime, and everyone needs to answer. There are no innocents here. But it seems to me that we are put to a dilemma very difficult, that we need to correct the wrong drin. And Ivo Andric said that no one could, and no one would fix them. If that's so metaphorically said for the wrong drins that are deep in the canyon between rocks and that it's impossible to correct them then it looks the same to me as correcting the wrong drins and we need to be careful not to cross the line of objectivity and the limit of universality of this process. So much, and I'd only mention one thing as a believer and a Christian. You need to know and forgive, it's human size and it's a human dimension and a Christian speciality. And for those who crucified the righteous on the cross, he says, "Forgive them, Father, they do not know what they are doing." Maybe they knew what they were doing, but he forgives. So forgiveness is kind of a solution to this difficult problem, so to speak, correcting the wrong Drins. There's so much for this introduction, and now he's going to continue his colleague, Damir Cain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110297	Thank you, too. Damir Cain, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110298	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, as the minister said earlier, I saw this film on several occasions and always the same shock. And I guess once upon a time these monsters will be caught, I guess they'll be tried, and I guess they'll be punished. Or to paraphrasise one former representative will probably be located, identified, arrested and transferred to either Croatian or other prisons. These behaviors must not be abolized in any way. This must also not be justified. You can't get past this. As someone, I think Mr. Vuksic asked the same question, can work in the bodies of the state government, how someone can work in the police, how someone can work in the mayor's office and know that he was involved in these monstrous crimes. What's also the fact that we've had the opportunity to hear that over 10,000 or several tens of thousands of people have been raped, men and women, in these unfortunate Balkan spaces since the beginning of '91. '95. A year. We've only got 12 convictions, or with that information, they're dealing with this movie. It's clearly a crime against humanity, it's not going over it, it's not going to get old in any way. Together with Serbia, together with Bosnia and Herzegovina, criminals should be brought to justice both in Croatia and Serbia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And governments must absolutely cooperate, exchange information, judge the perpetrators. I will first quote a part of this law, better said explanations where it is otherwise said: "That since it is a specific issue with a very large dark number, especially in relation to male victims of sexual violence, the total estimated number of victims that occurred during the process of assessing the effects of the rules of the concrete law is about 1800 victims, or 1600, if it is considered that a certain number of victims died as a result of sexual violence, which as a time-out from the Homeland War." If this is about that 2,500 circulatory fee here is about the amount or should be secured somewhere around 50 million kuna. However, I further quote, "As far as reparations seekers are concerned, and given the small number of sexual violence reported so far, the number of persons was estimated to be about 300 and primarily due to the time shift and the great stigma that followed these victims, etc." It's a 120 number. If it's about 120 it's somewhere the equivalent should provide 4 million kuna otherwise about 9 million kuna. There is no dilemma, and there we all agree that these people should be helped, silence should be interrupted, and the victims should be compensated if possible in any way. Whatever victim it is, the victim as he spoke and Don Grubisic must be compensated. Is it women, whether it's men, whether it's Croats, whether it's Serbs, whether it's Bosniaks or not. One of the most perfidious, fiercest forms of violence is this very sexual violence. Now I've listed the same thing on the tablet and I'm looking at the numbers of the raped Germans after World War II, it's about 2 million or up to 2 million raped women there. It is said that some 400,000 children were born out of it, it is said that about 200 thousand, or that 200 thousand Germans committed suicide after what was happening to them. To be clear, fascists have committed terrible crimes, crimes that cannot be described in any way, crimes that human mind can hardly understand but what happened after the war is also one of those crimes that it shouldn't and must not have gone through. That was also in Croatia, which was far more on Bosnia and Herzegovina's soil. Both the fact and as it is said in the explanation that the black numbers of this or this type of violence are absolutely the greatest. It's hard to talk about, and without talking about it, I think those to whom it happened will be even harder to live. When I read Article 2 is difficult to say, it must be clearly specified, the law requires it, but I will quote here an explanation on page 16, i.e. Article 24 on page 7 of which Mr Novak was also saying "The user can claim a single amount of cash compensation of 100 000 or an increased cash fee of 150 000 kuna". I want to believe that all victims, regardless of nationality, will come forward, that we are obliged to make it possible for everyone, the victim is a victim of gentlemen, everything else would be a new injustice and another discrimination. The only thing that may be disputed in this law is Article 14 paragraph 1 4 if I am not mistaken where it is said "that the party was not a member, assistant or associate of enemy military and paramilitary troops or legally convicted for participation in enemy military and paramilitary troops or for endangering the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Croatia." If anyone is legally sentenced by our or any other court clearly does not have the right to this status of the victim of sexual violence, but what about those, what about those who are victims of sexual violence and were, say, co-workers of the enemy of these paramilitary forces? Does this mean that in that case, that they could be raped, that a woman could be raped, that a man would rape who was on the other side? Careful with that. That's why I mentioned what happened to Germany after World War II, what the Red Army did in defeated Germany. If it's someone, I'll say it one more time, and there's nothing to expect any kind of compensation. And here I agree with the Committee on National Minorities. Finally this fifth month when we mark the victims and the Jasenovac, and cross paths literally teaches us that the victim is the victim. Every authority must punish one who lived on anyone. That's what these international declarations or conventions make us bound to do, whether it's Geneva. Just before in the film, I heard that the year 2001 was mentioned, and it seems to me that the Helsinki Convention is talking about a crime against humanity that can't be out of date. What am I saying? The law must be fair, the law must be fair, for all things equal. If not, I do not know in our uniform mobilized by the Croatian authorities committed such a crime, for example. in BiH, for some time, Croatia should take responsibility for itself and tolerate these victims under this law as well as its victims. Those who have done so are simply unsatisfactory and in court proceedings should then be asked to make a fee, satisfactory, compensation, one word that they will be the ones to settle the RH damage, and it will provide for a budget of funds to compensate for the necessary or requested amount of the victim. I look at it that way means the victims don't share because then a good law could become an injustice, and the intention of the promoter, all those who worked on this law was absolutely correct and through that form corrects one long-standing injustice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110299	Thank you very much. We now have the replicas of the presentation of the respected representative Ivan Grubisic, first of all. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110300	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives Grubisic really surprised me, but here I came to some conclusion that you really had a priest's interest, that it wasn't your call because how else do you say when you came out here for a pay phone and you say that today under the influence of the media we watched this movie "Sunica". We are not under the influence of the media, but we have watched this film in the name of the truth, a respected representative in the name of the truth. How can you say that there isn't in reality that everyone's guilty, you've shared the blame on everything, how can you easily talk about how to correct Drina's guilt today? So how can you say that we should accept this way, this savagery, this atrocities, this way not only of rape but of destroying the human spirit and people as an accepted rule, it's already happened, so what are we going to do now to correct the wrong Drina? So what do you say, counselor, about what it means when the Croats had to put white sheets and white ribbons on their houses to know what their houses were meant to be coming there. Today we watched a film in the name of the truth and today we speak for the truth. We will not share in the Homeland War any guilt against Croatians and those who attacked Croatians and Croatia, we cannot share and we cannot talk about that there are in some way not only innocent but they are guilty. You've really surprised me here. I'm sorry for hearing this first part of your debate today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110301	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110302	I had no intention of attacking the media, but I'm sure the messiahs are helping to update things and set up different things. Here's the first time I've heard what my colleague Cain said that in World War II about 2 million were raped in Germany and that's a large number. If one of them had been raped, it would have been a big number. So I didn't go after reducing those victims and accusing the media, but they did contribute to better looking at and seeing things. I also didn't want to relativize the victims from any side because crime is a crime and every crime should be treated as such, so when it comes to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110303	Thank you, too. Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110304	Dear Don Ivana Grubisic, a colleague, you said in your debate that it is also necessary to make sure that this bill does not cross the limits of universality. Sure, but it needs to be touched, and that's the respect of every human being. And what we all often say can't be seen here, not with this crime, this for me, one of the ugliest who's the perpetrator, who's the victim. Crime is a crime. But here we are witnessing that many still don't think that way. And we must not make new injustices that you have also said. Many have been searching for the truth all these years, but with this bill proposed by the government through Resolute Minister Matic, the truth should live. It's easy to talk about the truth, and many have been looking for it. I think this proposal wants to bring that truth back to life and give the victims such satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110305	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110306	Surely I am behind this observation of yours and that I support it and that I feel so personally, and that nothing needs to be related today that has been proved true or that the court will prove it and that it needs to be sanctioned for it. But it will not be a solution to this problem at either personal or collective level. You should count on time of forgetfulness and time of forgiveness, because without that dimension of forgiveness there is no human history, there is no morals, no ethics.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110307	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110308	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative Grubisic, you said in your debate that you do not know, in fact, that you do not know whether there were wars in history where there was no sexual abuse of the weaker sex. That's what you said. So first I want to believe that you don't think that sexual abuse in war is meant. And the other. You used the term weaker sex. So I do not agree to use the term "female" for women, especially not here in the Croatian Parliament, so we will not advance in promoting gender equality if we use such expressions. So MPs must be promoters of gender equality and it would be good to take care of that. In addition, the movie "Sun" that we were just watching was very clear that it wasn't just the abuse of members as you say the weaker sex, but that they were abused and members of the stronger sex.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110309	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110310	I didn't consider women to be weaker in the official appearance than in the coloquial speech used in the people. And if anyone finds themselves for that offended, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110311	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110312	Dear colleague Grubisic, you spoke in your presentation of a major part of forgiveness. In the movie, one of the ladies who suffered terrible crimes wonders who I should forgive. And the question... I say, we can't even imagine how to forgive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Women were raped 15, 16, 20 times. That man who suffered terrible crimes, went into a camp with 75 kilos, went out with 27, was raped, harassed, how can he forgive? The easiest thing to say is sorry, forget it. How to forgive those who watch the streets of criminals who raped them every day. I don't know if you can, I honestly say I couldn't. I couldn't, and I feel for those who can't. And that's a terrible injustice. There is no such injustice. And all those who advocate it, for some forgiveness of such men, I do not support them. First I am not God to forgive, there is a sentence in one film that says, "I am not God to forgive," and I find it very difficult to imagine that this can be forgiven especially to people who are not punished, to people whom the system treats as equal citizens of the Republic of Croatia or any other Republic, it does not matter. Therefore, these crimes are difficult to forget and must never be forgotten, and we must feel for our victims in full respect and compassion for what they have suffered.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110313	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110314	Dear colleague Vuksic, I understand that it is difficult to forgive and it cannot be only human logic or human thinking. And there it takes the strength of will and the strength of ethics to forgive itself, although it is extremely difficult, extremely difficult, but I said that crimes should be punished, proved and individualized, and I stand behind it. And that it's hard to forgive that I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110315	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the replicas of Honorable Representative Damir Kajin. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Cain, you said you saw this movie several times, "Sun," then if you watched that movie so many times you could see it, so these women's statements to speak along with everything else are saying that their wish and goal is to punish the criminals who committed those acts. Almost every one of these, to say the witness to this terrible crime, spoke of punishing criminals. Unfortunately, neither this law nor the bill of this law speaks for itself. Next, you spoke of Germany and 2 million raped women, Germany by the Red Army and then compensation. It's nothing, there's no cash that can make up for those broken souls, there's no cash that can be compensated, there's no compensation. And in the end, it's not clear to me that you and your clubmate were saying the exact opposite. He speaks of forgiveness and oblivion and at the same time should be said no matter what he is a priest and I am not that after, before forgiveness and oblivion should occur should be given truth, recognition, and true repentance, and only then can forgiveness come. And when it's gone and it's gone, then there's no forgiveness. It's only when someone repents, when they say I am, I'm sorry, I was wrong, then you can think about forgiveness, without it there's no forgiveness, let alone forgetting.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110317	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110318	Well, Don Grubisic may have, I'm sorry, Mr Grubisic may have misunderstood Don Grubisic. I'll do the same as one MP said earlier, and in the movie, we also heard a sentence that a lady roughly said, "Let my dear God forgive me," but I can't forgive you. I couldn't either, Mr. Representative, I could never have gone over it if it had happened to me or to someone of mine, and I wouldn't have reconciled until someone was punished. And I think we can all agree on that. And so I appeal to the institutions of the Croatian state, from the DORH further, to simply do something and finally to ease the pain to the real victims of this disgusting crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110319	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Cain, I don't object, and don't take it as an objection, but you mentioned the numbers of 1600, possibly 1800, in the light of the law, there's a possible 2200 victims. However, I don't think we should talk about numbers, figures or money in the context of this law's debate. Nevertheless, one sacrifice is too much, and only dear God knows how many were there because experience shows that many victims, especially women, did not want to testify but many did not want to speak, so as you can see in this film, you are reminded of moments that are so traumatic that they are too sick. So, in this debate, what I'm saying is, devoting every kind of politicization, every kind of demagogy, and of course they're not looking for in any way, it would be completely hypocritical to ask victims of that kind of worst humiliation to forgive anyone. The state is second, but individuals, victims, humiliated for the rest of their lives and offended, we do not have to and must not ask any kind of forgiveness for criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110321	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110322	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Cain, don't take it as a criticism, but I had to answer because in your discussions, the words of money, compensation, compensation were often mentioned. Yes, it is true that it stands in the law but I think more should be said of the words pride, dignity, laws of Croatia, ultimately and punishment. I think we've all been horrified here watching this movie. I thought I was as strong as a rock, but my eye was a little wet. I think that here as the Croatian Parliament and all the MPs, regardless of the color of the uniforms today, we must send a strong message, a strong message that all crimes and these, and also those who remain unpunished, all those who have committed it come to the hands of justice. I'll mention a detail. Col. Grubisic Boro knows very well that 182 civilians died in Slavonski Brod, 28 children under 18. No one, my dear friends, was responsible for that. That's why my modest participation in this debate is so that those who have committed these crimes are finally brought to justice, and those institutions that need to do this job of fat, fat punishment, but are late. But it's not too late, so let's get into their work, which they get paid for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110323	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110324	We, Your Honor, speak the same language and number, I agree with you, is absolutely irrelevant, as your predecessor, Mrs. Kosor, said. Whether it's 1600 people, whether it's 1800, whether it's 2200 people, it's absolutely irrelevant. And I get the amount of whether 46 million, 48 million, 50 million kuna that might need to be provided on an annual basis and that's absolutely irrelevant. We all agree here that the victim is a victim, and I guess the institutions of this state under quotes will drive out at least one small segment of justice, and I guess this law is also a little pebble in correcting that injustice that was done to these victims. I think it was Mr. Matic's assignment, and he's on his way to correct that small part of the injustice against the victims. He, his ministry, this home, the Croatian Government, the Croatian community as a whole, which must also provide the necessary funds through the budget. And I want to put an emphasis on who, on the institutions of repression, the police, the DORH, the rule of law, and let them finally start to act and do what they're paid for, to paraphrasise you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110325	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDZ advocates' club and respected representative Nada Murganic. Here you go, fellow Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110326	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, I would like to thank you, and those who have made it possible for us to look at this film, and just as you said, we need to contain our emotions, but we need to look the truth in the eye. During the aggression against the Republic of Croatia, numerous destructions were carried out by the aggressors, many human victims fell, burned houses were destroyed, other property was destroyed, property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were expelled, taken to camps both in Croatia and outside Croatia. In addition to all this, sexual violence was committed which was part of the planned genocide action in almost a quarter of occupied territory and in camps, and the camp was in Knin, Glina, Begejci, Negoslavci, Šid, Velepromet, Dalje, Dardi and everywhere and elsewhere. Where the camps were, there was also sexual abuse. And it's always been a unique pattern of conduct, commanded either by soldiers or members of an armed enemy army to behave like that. Sexual abuse was part of the enslavement tactics. It was necessary to humiliate members or members of the defeated people because rape is a murder weapon of war that has been working for decades and after the war is over. It's a crime that hit the victim most and we can only assume what horrors they experienced in occupied areas, prisons and camps. Once such a crime has been committed, it has been repeated for years as a permanent trauma that does not fade. Victims are mentally and physically disabled, unable to live a family life, to give birth and work. Basic principles of international and humanitarian law have been implemented in Croatian legislation and our country is obliged to protect the human rights and freedoms of its citizens and citizens. Many international documents do not now list them, the United Nations Declaration, the Council of Europe Resolution, the Convention and the Security Council Resolution and others say that the victim should be given justice, that the victim should have his own compensation, respect and recognition of suffering. Likewise, the perpetrator should certainly be punished and persecuted, and the Council of Europe says that there has been no adequate prosecution for the perpetrators. The UNDP office is therefore also responsible for the recognition of sexual crime as a war strategy and means of enslavement and destruction of the occupied population, to whom this law will certainly contribute along with efforts by both domestic, ministry and all those responsible. The Croatian Democratic Community Club during the debates of all the discussions that are still pending on this law supported and during the public debate when drawing up draft laws and during the debate in the first reading of the bill gives victims the necessary recognition of status and that they should receive material compensation cash as compensation for their sufferings. We therefore stress the satisfaction of respecting and including the remarks made in this first reading in which, with the recognition of the status of the victim of sexual violence, the right to health and psychosocial assistance and legal assistance, health care, rehabilitation, housing in social institutions, veterinary centres are recognised and the right to a one-time fee of 100 thousand kuna, i.e. 150 increased thousand kuna, increased and regular monthly fees. The Croatian Democratic Community Club then proposed this and considered it necessary to recognise, pay and provide funding in the state budget. And we express once again the satisfaction that has been adopted and introduced into the final draft of the law. But the Croatian Democratic Community Club held other objections in its first reading debate, which are not included in the final draft law, and we therefore propose to amend the final proposal by adopting the amendments that I will now describe, and they will be up until the end of the debate and proposed. The very name of the law in which, in a negative context, it puts the concept of the Homeland War itself, which was defensive, just, legitimate and liberating. Aggression is the cause. Homeland war is the answer to that aggression. And this is how the proposed name discriminates against the Homeland War and the defenders, and in the name of the law, we propose an amendment that will read: "The final bill on the rights of victims of sexual violence during the armed aggression on the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War." And in this context, for the sake of clear and precise determination of the cause, place and time of war crime, we propose that Article 1 be amended to say: "This law defines sexual violence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia during the armed aggression of Serbia, Montenegro and JNA with the armed rebellion of part of the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia was established by the Declaration of Homeland War or during captivity in an enemy camp or prison outside the Republic of Croatia, and the status of the victims of sexual violence. So, if time is linked to the duration of the Homeland War, according to the Homeland War Declaration, and the time is stated from 1991 to '95. in that sense, and we will submit the amendment for proper alignment with the text of the Homeland War Declaration. We also propose to amend Article 2 which states what sexual violence is, to state that it is defined by the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and its associated character of criminal acts, because we also see that we have different clubs of different interpretations, and this document has been adopted by us. We propose an amendment to the article, which lists the term "redative" in a variety of contexts, because it implies members of the Croatian police, i.e. the Liberation Actions "Blash" and "Storm". Article 11 is proposed to the Commission to add, in 6 paragraphs, paragraph 7 to the need for a security check in accordance with the law governing the area of security verification. This is also necessary in order to comply with Article 35, which states that the members of the commission are obliged to ensure the protection of the identity of the victims and the confidentiality of the collected data. Article 12(1) states that members of the commission are elected from the ranks of experts. We therefore add an amendment to this article, or paragraph 1, to leave out experts who have experience in the field of human rights and that paragraph 4 of the same article is amended and it is said that under the conditions set out in paragraph 3 they shall have an advantage in the appointment of persons who have experience in working with victims or victims of sexual violence. Article 14 sets out the conditions to be met in order to recognise the status of the victim. What about volunteers from BiH, from some European countries, humanitarians who were on the side of the defence against aggression against the Republic of Croatia and could at that time be victims of sexual violence? It is therefore proposed to add, in Article 14(2), the right to both volunteers and participants in humanitarian activities. In Article 18, it is also necessary to add some items with two, one and two, three, four that would refer to secondary legal aid in accordance with the Law on Free Legal Assistance. This would further confirm the importance of protecting these victims, and we see that the funds for free legal aid are provided and that they can be used. Article 32 provides for the cooperation of the Ministry of Defence and other institutions in terms of obtaining evidence. Unfortunately, we don't have war criminals' records, we don't have war criminals' registers, we don't even have processes to bring them to justice. And proving a crime, committing a crime should also contribute to bringing justice to the perpetrator. Only then, with the recognition of the victim's status, the damage to the victims, the clear definition of who is the aggressor, and who can be satisfied and say that we have passed a good law. In any event, we believe that all the material assets that the Republic of Serbia has for compensation should also be included in the request to the Republic of Serbia as war damages to those who have done such damages. So we appreciate the efforts of all who have contributed to this bill, express respect for the victims who have had the courage to talk about their casualties. We are pleased with the changes we have proposed, which are related to monetary compensation. We claimed that recognition of status without compensation was a dead letter on paper. We insisted that the deadline for submission be abolished and all of this was put into effect in the final draft of the law. But we suggest that the amendments we are going to make in the form of amendments that I have highlighted in the debate in order for the law to be fair, meet the truth and achieve the objective. And that is, with all that we have stated that sexual violence in aggression against the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War was part of the military strategy of enslavement of the local population and not of individual controversial events. Therefore, these testimonies from this film also confirm this debate, and we think that these changes are very important in order to pass one really good law, and by adopting these amendments, we will all have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110327	Thank you very much. Just the last replica of Bora Grubisic is the tenth. Let's go in order, the respected representative Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110328	Dear colleague Murganić, you started with the same sentence and you finished and I completely agree with you. This was planned, it's actually a war strategy, and if it's something genocide, then it's certainly genocide everything that's happened and what we're talking about today. We just don't need to forget one thing that needs to be acknowledged by a minister who dared after 20 years, and more than 20 years, 25 years from these events, to propose a law that triggered the debate, which he put on the agenda, and we're all saying it's all too late. So it came, but someone dared, and it is courage. The worst part is, what I was about to say was, there's no prosthetics for the soul. Everything can be fixed, but this can't be fixed. And what you were saying about punishing the perpetrator is the basic point. There's a punishment to be done. But we also need to remember why you weren't punished in time, why we're not punishing them. Remember the Abolition Act, at the time I was a journalist and then I wrote a column that it was a cardinal mistake that was made under the pressure of the International Community, but it was a cardinal mistake. It's one of the biggest mistakes we've ever made, the very law of abolization. And there's a lot of criminals sneaking in, although crime doesn't get old, but as a state, we put it aside. That's where DORH carries a great responsibility because he has a lot of documents and keeps them in the drawer. I don't think the name discriminates against the Homeland War. It's literally an interpretation, and I totally disagree. This law is not discriminated against, and the victim's status is recognised and pointed to the criminal. But it's the other laws again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110329	Replicate response, respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110330	I thank my colleague. Here's a lot from my debate, so I'll try and replicate. Yes, there really is no prosthesis for suffering, but when we pointed out that these material fees were needed we clearly thought that they would not ease and erase the trauma but would allow for raising the quality of life for the people who suffered these traumas and here in this way the state would give maybe some help and an apology for what happened to them. I'm not one of those MPs, for this short time that I've noticed you're back in time. We are now talking specifically about this law, and I think it is the task of all of us to do a little while longer during this debate until the vote we try to improve it and correct the injustices. And I think I said both in this debate and in the first reading because I've always looked at what I once said, expressed both respect and praise to all those who have made an effort to reach this law. But neither can we from the HDZ Club accept some classifications and some definitions that might create additional injustices and additional different interpretations. And I don't think we ever need unity like this now, a unique interpretation of the truth about the Homeland War, and I think we could really do this right now in this debate on this law and show it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110331	The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110332	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Murganić, with your discussion I agree, and now and in the first reading you are the same, here I will quote, you gave all the praises in the first reading, but you also insisted in front of the HDZ Club that victims of sexual violence receive a fair fee. To make it one-time, and you also pointed out that regular rent should be recognised. Then, we're witnesses not to go back in time, but we're witnessing that first reading when not all MPs agree with it. What I will support again and it is good that this fee has entered, but agreeing with you should clearly determine who the perpetrator is and who the victim is, should clearly do so through this law equally so that it is evident that you know who it is. There's nothing to hide, this is the truth, and the truth is what it is, it was horrible, it was horrible. Because how, in any way, to explain such actions and then to have been targeted and that it was simply with will done by Serb aggressors was that they were marked by Croatian families and Croatian houses, and in this way one people who was thought to demean him to the point where he would disappear. Thank God that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110333	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110334	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade twilight, we remember to discuss you. The first proposal did not exclude this material compensation, however, it went in a different way to provide funds with the foundation, at least here I remember now, but this change clearly defined how much of these amounts, for which forms of trauma are given which amount and certainly the obligation to secure funds from the state budget was created. We, too, should stress from the HDZ Club, are reading this law that this law has been passed for the compensation of victims who have been victims of sexual violence as part of a military, war strategy of slavery. So it's not about any individual and controversial case. And I think that's why all these other changes to the Ministers are important, which will then clearly lead to a proper interpretation of who and how they can achieve the right for these and these fees provided for in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110335	Dear Representative Ivan Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110336	So I must commend the first part of your presentation where you presented international conventions on the right to peace and against war. Despite these conventions and today there's a war going on, and today we get raped in Iraq, and unfortunately it won't get us out of the crisis I don't know what regulations we've come up with. If we look back on the New Testament, then Jesus asks his contemporaries to turn to us, and I set an example for you to do so. So without personal conversion and without fixing things in itself, no law on the outside will be able to help us overcome the difficulties in which we find ourselves unwarranted. So, you couldn't agree as a believer with the attitude of exclusiveness towards the victims because it also writes, but that applies to everything on the left and on the right, "If you don't forgive each other of all hearts and the father of heaven won't forgive you. That's what the Bible says," that's the law for me, and that's what I stick to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110337	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110338	Well, I agree with you that everything is in us, right? That if we're doing well and we're on the right track, and that's why I call for unique attitudes in the adoption of this law, we have amendments, we adopt these amendments and we show that we're on this path right now. As far as forgiveness goes, we'll let each and every one of us do it. We need to go after it to achieve righteous relations and to say what is not good and to show who is not doing well clearly and to punish him, and only then can we forgive him and all of this be forgiven.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110339	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zvonko Milas replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Murganic, I will support a part of your debate that tells me to be plastic about the terminology of this law. So I really cannot go a certain way over the fact that this law is called the Law on Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War. What was the Homeland War even like? We claim it was a defensive, liberating war where an independent Republic of Croatia was born. He was led by Croatian defenders. Were the Serbs who attacked Croatia, Montenegro and Chetniks involved in the Homeland War or were they involved in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia? And the Homeland War was the answer to that aggression and the context of the crime can't push the Homeland War? As one smart person said, it is not just a mere term in which we can chronically push all the events that occurred during the aggression on Croatia. Homeland war is honorable and fair. Finally, we published a defence register on the grounds that defenders could be honorable and honest, so that they could walk proudly in Croatia. And the problem is that this law is called the law on the rights of victims of sexual violence committed during an aggression against the Republic of Croatia. What do we lose and what do we get? We can't set up the Homeland War and I won't allow it, at the end of what do you think the Vietnamese attack on Vietnam is called the Vietnam War? In the end, as those who attacked Croatia call it, do they call war in Croatia or aggression, do they call it the Homeland War? And we haven't even seen in the movie who it's really about. Nothing costs us anything, and we'll do a lot of...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110341	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110342	I can agree with you, too, given that one and the other are talking about the same concept, in the same way of understanding it is the attitude of our club, and you have had the opportunity in this replica to explain it in detail if in any way anyone has remained a questionnaire in the air why it is very, very important to all of us. And I think it is also good to say, perhaps because of those who listen to us, watch from the gallery that many associations of our Croatian association, the Croatian Defence Association were in favour of supporting this law, but they also insisted on this very termology. And I repeat once again, it is very important for us to have the same terminology and same interpretation of the truth and the facts that are related to our Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110343	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110344	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, dear colleague Murganic, I'm not going to talk about these things that you've been talking about, and other colleagues, of course, I agree with what you said and of course there's not a word or any compensation that these people can get. What bothers me a little is the concept of the commission because the commission is actually a single political body, the commission appointed by the minister. And it doesn't matter now he's one minister, he'll be the second minister in six months, but the minister has appointed a commission as part of the government. The commission consists of different experts, but what is the role of the commission? It will look at the facts and evidence found in criminal proceedings, so the documents, will look at the powerful judgments, possibly other evidence, and bring its own justice. Wouldn't it be simpler to make a solution to carry out administrative proceedings at the ministry and then in case there was a need to eventually make some art, which I don't think should be simplified in principle. This way, we will have a massive body completely diversified to discuss the documents, thank God we no longer listen to the victims because in the previous version there was such a variant, but it seems to me that it would be more efficient and simple when it was already a political body, and, to do so in the ministry in the form of a administrative procedure, it would be much faster and much more going on in the hands of these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110345	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110346	So in the debate, and I mentioned the commission might be a little bit of a modification of the composition of the commission just for the sake of better identification and professional determination of the facts and determination of the status of the victim, I thought that the commission would be persons who have, in some way, speciality or already experience related to the victims who were injured, injured, wounded in war aggression and rape victims that this would exclude the second-degree procedure and after the decision of the minister could only go to trial. Well, that might be a real contribution to the debate, or one of the opportunities to improve and make it easier to come to a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110347	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110348	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Murganic, I agree with your debate especially in the part where you spoke in the introduction in fact that nothing in the Homeland War happened by accident or rape, that it was part of a script or strategy of the Serbs. And, of course, there is a clear and loud condemnation to be made. I agree with you that it is a good thing that the final draft of the law is included in the financing provision because even then we pointed out that the fund cannot be a way to address this issue systematically, that the only solution is to ensure that finance is provided in the state budget and it is good that it is included in this law. But I have to say it's not good that there's no one calculation here, no matter what we've heard here, he doesn't even have to say because, of course, some things can't be made up of money, but we're seriously hoping that the state and behind every law should stand and a financial assessment of how much the law will cost, there isn't. And the other thing, which is stated here, and it is not true, the money is not secured in the state budget and is not on the stand as the Croatian Defence Ministry but will have to be subsequently provided either by redistributing funds or by rebalancing the budget that additional funds will be granted to the Croatian Defence Ministry. So the job wasn't done the way it was supposed to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110349	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the respected Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110350	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Ivić, yes, the funds are not secured in the state budget and if the law is adopted and I believe that they will then have to work and rebalancing at least for what is now known and there is established evidence and confirmation that there are persons who are victims of such sexual violence. That is, as the commission is being established, as it begins to work, I guess in this year these many funds may not even be needed, so I guess the ministers will be able to rebalance it easily and in the coming years we'll see how and so much. The fact that there are no accurate estimates of how much money would be needed, the dynamics of which will be used to perform these skills, or the dynamics of which the commission will work. I would point out again that the value of this law is precisely in what it points out that rape was a war crime and part of a war strategy. So I repeat, it's not about individual cases. But I also want to point out, even if it was one person's rape, whoever it was, and one victim whose member or member of it should be punished, but for that, there are laws of another. This law speaks of the victims we've now seen in this film.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110351	A new replica of the esteemed Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110352	Dear counterpart Murganic, I will replicate your two findings to me quite vaguely and you said at one point that we do not have a war criminal register and that war crimes are not being prosecuted. You've come to realize that. So I'm not very clear on the practice of what legal systems are that have a register, especially a register of war criminals. I've never seen that before in practice. And regarding the finding that there is no processing of war criminals and war crimes I will remind you only of the report of the DORH which we have since 2013 which we have accepted here and this DORH report very clearly says that so far has been accused of war crimes 3 thousand 436 people. Of this 557 has been convicted of war crimes, 706 have been suspended, i.e. a withdrawing indictment for lack of evidence and still thousands of 221 people are awaiting a verdict on war crimes. Therefore, it is not your finding that war crimes in the Republic of Croatia are not being prosecuted. I'm sorry there's no fellow Vuksic here to tell him I just don't need to manipulate the fact that he's ablimate. Abolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110353	Even though he has no colleagues, and you regret that he is gone, there is nothing you can say to him right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110354	Yeah, but I'm just going to figure out what ablation is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110355	Read the Rules of Procedure. Either way, call the hearing and you'll tell Vuksic or whoever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110356	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110357	New replica Josip Djakic. ... You've got to take this. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And then go ahead, answer the line. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110358	I'm sorry if I didn't lift this bat high enough. So, colleague Horvat, this part where you say there's no state with a war crimes register. We can have it, we should have it. We need to have the same because of what the victims have been telling us war criminals, maybe, I don't know if this is but the women say that they are doing it in public administration bodies, in the state government, in local units, walking around. Why don't we have that register? Why do we have a defense register, maybe a few states that have that? A few states have laws like this. We were proud and in the debate in the first reading and now what we're going to pass this law. This is absolutely necessary, such a register of war criminals. And as for the processing of war crimes, the committing of war crimes and perpetrators, there is. There are, you have numbers, I may have specifically failed to perceive them now, but there's very little for a crime like this. Women say themselves, you watched a movie, I don't know if you were in the hall?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110359	New replica Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Murganić, you have well concluded that it is necessary and necessary to define the aggressor, define the criminal, define these beasts that have committed such crimes. Define them as an aggression against Serbia, Montenegro's Yugoslav People's Army, paramilitary troops and civilians who committed these crimes. This is necessary since it is seen in this law that those associations that opposed the adoption of this law have acted and opposed the document, the Centre for Facing the Past, the Civil Committee and a number of others who have been associated in Platform 112 by means of an open letter to the Ministry of Defence. And now we see that there are things in this law that they have managed to put in order to re-emerge or almost even the victim and the aggressor. And it needs to be fixed and changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110361	The answer to the replica Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110362	So here I will just confirm this part where we should clearly count who were from the ranks and members of which the states were aggressors in the Republic of Croatia were those beasts, perpetrators of major or minor war crimes but they were the ones who attacked the Republic of Croatia and they were the aggressors. And I'm really repeating it at a time when we're passing a law that is in any way time-detectable for the duration of '91. '95. and it still needs to be made clear because I repeat the unique views, the unique terminology, the unique interpretation of all the concepts that relate to the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110363	Replica, dear Sonja König, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110364	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Dear counterpart Murganic, you spoke among other things about members of the peace force in the context of the victim, only in the context of the victim. But I also want to warn you of the opposite cases, proven and shown in the historical documents of various conflicts in the world, because in the war women and men rape both members of the enemy army and members of the friendly army and civilians, as well as members of the peace forces, and therefore guilt must be individualised, no matter where it comes from, no matter where it comes from, and that as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110365	Replication response, Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110366	It's not a questionable investigation of the guilty party, no matter who it was, it's not a dispute or punishment of the guilty party, no matter who it was. I was merely stressing that in defence therefore on the side of the defence forces were members of BiH and various humanitarians who could have been victims, and I also did not stress that all of them and others could be perpetrators of crime, but this law is somehow the most dedicated to the victim, so it was not so specific. But now let's not make it sound like a phrase, it's always a crime, and it should be punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110367	Last line, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110368	Thank you very much. My colleague Murganić, I agree with you that these crimes of sexual violence were indeed a war strategy of the Serb army that committed an aggression against Croatia, that it was done systematically, ferociously, beastly, objectively, plannedly, however you wish and I agree with you and I will support your amendment even though I meant to write it myself, to change Article 2 in which it would be said that like a lex specialis, so on the crimes committed in aggression and in the Republic of Croatia, so only in this sense and in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So I'll fully support that one of yours. But what keeps repeating here, and what doesn't show in a little bit that the state budget currently lacks funds in the defence ministry's position, that a rebalancing should be done. But the notion of compensation, the damages should not be spoken in this way because it turns out that the state of Croatia is doing damages, and should be done by the one who has done the damage, which is the Republic of Serbia, or individually who has done the damage. So that's how we kind of accept it as a state actually. I am not against this aid in terms of cash compensation, but by no means should the state of Croatia accept the concept of compensation for damages or damages. This is achieved at other instances, but this law also exculpates the DORH which has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that damages can also be realised at international courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110369	The reply to the replica, respected Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110370	Here's a respected colleague, Grubisic, we're talking about synchronising terminology and it's really important. I repeat, and I don't think that by proposing there should be any doubt that such a change in the name and later definition of who is the possible perpetrator of the war crime as we propose in the debates, I see that you and others agree with this, is being introduced and that is certainly something that can contribute to the quality and I repeat to unity regarding this law. As far as the damages are concerned, so is the law and we deal with it. We believe and have always felt that we need in some way materially to help our victims. This criterion, we had this principle at the time of the Homeland War, when young boys were killed and many families were left unsupervised by family fosterers, so the state gave compensation that these families, different in different laws, could survive. The children were educated, and we should have done it well, and it's obviously an emergency now according to the victims and in this law. And all together, along with that material damage, with those costs of building houses, the property that was destroyed, which was restored by the Republic of Croatia, ask for compensation from whoever caused and did that damage but at the state level, not individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110371	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the DC, New Wave and the People's Party of Reformists, the respected Vesna Skare-Ozbolt will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110372	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Our club will support this law for the reason that it has been significantly improved since the first reading and we think that it needs to be adopted as soon as possible in order to approach the realisation of all those provisions that it foresees. The laws are never perfect, and we know it best, and we don't make perfect laws. Of course, until the vote, we need to make it the best of it, but we need to bring it in and start applying it. Our history, especially that wartime, will also enter international criminal law that served to identify rape in international law as a war crime for the first time. The rape occurred among various forms of torture, in a series of trials before The Hague court. Those who followed the trials could see that most of the trials against Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where it was proven that there was no Serbian camp without sexual violence, so the Hague court for the first time characterised the crimes of rape in international law not as a war crime but even more as a crime against humanity. In doing so, for the first time, sexual crimes are treated as serious crimes in themselves, not as the accompanying phenomenon of war. It's perfectly legally explained, which means sexual slavery that we could see in this film. So, the fact that women were either captured or limited to their ability to move, that whatever they were ordered to do, that the aggressors, soldiers, or paramilitary troops were entitled exclusively to certain women who were constantly at their disposal and that these men, women had no control over their lives. This was clearly defined by The Hague court as a criminal offence against humanity. And the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security prescribes that rape in war must not become obsolete or be worth amnesty to them, or cannot be adjudicated by perpetrators, and perhaps it should also be very clear. Now, what we want to stress is two things in this law. With all these suggestions coming from clubs, it seems to me that two things should be particularly highlighted. This law is a de facto humanitarian law, so it is the assistance of the Croatian state with the aim of facilitating the lives of victims and it is not compensation, it is not compensation for suffering suffered because this dissintion needs to be very emphasized, because compensation is paid by the state aggressor. Croatia is not a state aggressor, Croatia is a victim. Therefore, it cannot pay compensation for damages and I think that if you need to correct the government's amendment, explain that there would be no confusion. And as far as we can see in these discussions, damages are often used. The damages are something else. Therefore, the aid that is subject to this law will be paid to victims is not harmful and does not reduce the right of victims to initiate individual or collective lawsuits one day. I think that should also be pointed out in particular. So I think that such a provision should be incorporated into the law, thus clearly defining that this is a humanitarian law, and, on the other hand, encouraging victims to decide on that step unless the state makes a different decision to file a collective suit. I think even these individual lawsuits that would be filed could help, because at least this law will help to heal in some way acute trauma if you can even think about such options. The other dilemma is another thing, and it's about the commission. We have a situation, for example, that the victim of sexual violence reported a crime in '91, '92. A year. That information has been lost somewhere like in this country often, the victim has been completely traumatized, now coming before the Committee, amounts to everything that's happened. The commission's helping her, but what about her application to commit a crime? Does the Committee of Automatism report a rape offence, does it do so with the victim's consent, does it not do so unless there is a victim's consent? For example, this is a serious dilemma that this law does not regulate, and you will obviously have to regulate it by regulation. Not reporting a crime is also a criminal offence. So these are very sensitive and serious things that need to be done here, we point this way. We also think that a 90-day deadline is too long. This means that practically when everything is looked at by the time the law is passed, it starts to apply, and then 90 days won't even come to life this year. Therefore, we think that there was enough time for the parallel to the second reading to begin to see the outlines of the Regulation and that the Regulation can be made and entered into force within 30 days. So here's the two basics, the key dilemmas that our club represents. Of course it's never too late for justice, it's just a question of whether it's satisfactory. And that is why it is absolutely necessary to support all those who are and should continue to investigate and reveal the perpetrators of war crimes especially because these are acts that do not go out of date, they need to be processed because without truth and justice there is no normalisation of life. We also think that the more appropriate name of the law itself is the victim of sexual violence during the armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110373	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110374	That fellow you said loudly and clearly what I think we should all agree on, which is that this law should be passed. That's what a lot of people here say and criticise, unlike you but some criticise, are being brought here late, why? They were MPs, they never talked about it, they didn't even remember it. So once again I commend you, Mr. Minister, who knows about it, many envy you for it, but any right or disagree with you fellow Members, this law should be passed. Rape as a form of war, violent acts, part of a strategy. You also mentioned a whole series of international conventions. I would only add here the statute of the International Criminal Court which identifies special protection of women as a birth crime. And that's something that this law particularly recognizes as opposed to the very criminal classic rape act. So those who did this, you really made a deal with the devil. And this isn't where the contract broke, I think this law is what we do now, that the guilty, the perpetrators are brought to justice. It was the way and strategy of war, and the body of women as their battlefield. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110375	Thank you. Replication response, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues absolutely if we are serious and if we really want to implement what this law predicted then the law should be passed as soon as possible, especially because it comes extremely late. However, I will warn that in 2013, the G8 member states adopted a Declaration on the Prevention of Sexual Violence in the War Conflict against which victims in all national legislation are to be granted status in society. This law is practically on the trail. And indeed we can all say why this law was not passed in 2000, and only now. But I already said here is justice not only slow but it has somehow arrived. But the question is, will it be satisfactory? It will not be satisfactory until the perpetrators of the crime are punished and, in practice, compensation from the state of aggressors is achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110377	Thank you. Second replica, dear Mille Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110378	Thank you. Dear colleague Ozbolt, you have concluded that no one can be absolved for the crime of sexual abuse. Of course no one can be absolved for that or for any other crime and you as a former justice minister know it. And for the sake of the public, it is necessary to say that the act of ablation itself has not abolized anyone for any crime. You know for a fact that ablation was only about participating in an armed rebellion and nothing more. For anyone who has proven a higher degree of responsibility for any war crime or sexual abuse, everyone has been processed or will be prosecuted and punished. Therefore, not to manipulate the fact of abolism should clearly state its character.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110379	Thank you. Replication response, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, you're right. The abolition, or forgiveness of President Tudjman several times declared during the war, did not refer to any murder, not to any rape, but only to participation in the armed rebellion. If it was determined that someone committed the murder, driving people through minefields, burning houses, rape could not have been the subject of forgiveness. The problem is that there is a very easy and simplified interpretation of forgiveness or abolism. She had her intention and her purpose. Maybe from this perspective of 2015 it might look different, but then it made sense. But not for any murderers, not for any rapists, to be clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110381	And the last replica, the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues of Ozbolt, by analysing all the information and data collected this year, found that there was a suspicion that during the Homeland War an act of rape would have been committed over 187 women. The state's attorney's office found out about these victims by reporting war crimes against 38 victims. 30 victims only reported a felony. Other persons provided data on the works, 8 victims, and 7 victims were received from those associations. As far as the procession is concerned, there are 43 victims under way to conduct a reconnaissance against 5 people. 18 people are being investigated. And 18 people have been charged. 10 persons are convicted, 2 persons are suspended, and 1 person has been sentenced. After so many years of sociological research, they say that up to 2200 victims in the Republic of Croatia are really bored, I would say very little or nothing. I believe that this law too, if it is well defined and there is no legal failure, will further encourage the establishment of criminals and victims to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110383	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110384	Dear colleague, we are obviously in a great disrepair between those assessments that the ministry has made in the light of the law and what the legal state or the State's attorney or court gives us as an answer. And when you see these numbers that have fallen to two, three cases legally completed, completed, then you can see that this issue has not been fully addressed. In my presentation, I deliberately spoke about The Hague Court and the way the Hague Court treats rape as a crime against humanity precisely by deliberately sending a message to all those who are still reluctant to report it because it is a crime that does not go out of date, it is a crime that can be reported at any time, regardless of the years, and these are the crimes that the state's attorney's office in this case and our law enforcement bodies must absolutely prosecute and treat them as well as any crime that may be even more, which is being prosecuted today. Unfortunately from that state's attorney's report we recently had, there's too little information, there's a hole, there's empty holes involved in the processing of just war crimes rapes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110385	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. And the name of the SDSS club will be spoken by the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110386	Dear Mr Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, as well as in the first reading and in the second reading of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS welcomes the debate on this matter and welcomes this legislative initiative because we consider significant progress that the international judiciary and our national judiciary are beginning to engage in rape of women in war and war activities. Because it has as much rape as it is terrible and in peacetime conditions, but in war circumstances it has an additional dimension, not only debauchery, but also a special dimension of savagery and a special dimension of collective humiliation, as we could see and see in wars in the former Yugoslavia, starting first and foremost from the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in that sense, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party has no dilemma about this law as an initiative. However, there is a dilemma about some of the provisions of this law, and there is more than a dilemma with discussions that could be heard here in the Assembly and in front of the text for this debate. It's a shame there's no President of the Parliament, and you told the vice president that no one should be discussed with him, but I guess there'll be a chance to discuss it. First, let's start with two key articles, 13 and 14. Therefore, proving that both in peacetime conditions and in conditions in which it can be done immediately after starting with medical and any other assistance is, of course, something that is difficult very often, primarily burdened by the horrors of suffering and humiliation suffered by victims, on the other hand, by the indemnity of people when on Wednesday the struggle for their own rights and the protection of this kind of right. I hope that the commission will be composed of people who will allow it to work in the right way. In other words, I hope it doesn't end by the system of two witnesses as it used to end. That according to a system of two witnesses such as a colleague of Skare-Ozbolt it is the basis for a criminal application as the conversation we hear here is used as an argument that someone committed a rape because there's a view of people walking around the city and they're rapists. If we're going to take this as healthy for granted, then we're going to get a condition that will be far from the state of order and the state of justice. The second thing I would like to say about Article 14(4) is that the party was not a member of the aide or associate of the enemy military and paramilitary forces and was legally convicted of participation in enemy military and paramilitary forces. So those in Lori could have been raped, and they were, uh, men, Serbs? One form of relationship with them was rape, as you described in this law. Forced penetration, not necessarily by male sexual organs, but by various other means in the human anus or in the mouth. Under this provision of yours it is not, these people wouldn't be covered by this even though it's a war crime. They're not in the film, of course, because no one's working on them, but that's what happened, and we know about it, and there are testimonies, records and evidence about it. Was the person from Virovitica 91st year of age identified by someone as an associate, I know the name and last name, and I know the place, and I know the date, and if this person was marked together with his wife and his underage child as an associate and a helper, then the soldiers of the persons in the uniforms of the Croatian army could enter the house rape in front of the child and kill the wife and wife afterwards, whether this person Mr. Minister with such presumption included among the victims to whom the war crimes were committed, or was it rape in a war such as the murder of two families in Novska by uniformed persons in the uniforms of the Croatian army act of abile was interpreted as not a war crime but a crime in war? There's not one of our colleagues who justified this act of abolization by that kind of argument. And are we going to apply this law to everything equally? And do you expect me now to be the one in the Obrovec area who raped her in '95, and '96 came to me with a story about it and asking for my rights, do I now have to hire people after the Obrovec and ask who those people who raped that woman are? And will this conversation be enough for a campaign like it is heard today from some colleagues and colleagues with an predecessor who is presented here who wants to endanger everything that has been done in Croatia since '96 and '97? And the occasion is what? The cause is as right as it says in the law and the reason is, of course, sanctions to ask me, and where am I during this debate. And I'm like most people who have to take care of their health in a place where health needs to be taken care of. Is that what we've come to? My colleagues and colleagues have been in this House for a long time, and I understand very well the language of certain people. And I'm going to conclude with one, of those who want to use the suffering of people who don't have much to do with them, make another kind of rudeness, violence, and actually inhumaneness. There is no kind of crime against humanity when someone abuses a crime committed against someone to commit a new crime against other people. But there is such a practice, and with this practice, if true, with the deepest moral inner feeling that should be universal to us as members of the human race, regardless of which religion or which policy we have confessed, which is that nothing can be taken by force from another, and the least physical honor and physical intimacy, that someone today and here turns it into a means of political campaign, for the stegmatisation of certain ethnic groups is a serious sin against that moral feeling and a serious sin towards the experience of the people who have gone through it. And I call upon you not to enter deeper into this sin than you have entered. From day to day colleagues and colleagues, our people experience, our daughters and mothers experience that they are tempted to sell because they do not have to live on, to lose the basic feelings that we have as people or that we share. From day to day we see and witness how our country too is raped by those who have power, who have capital and who have unscrupulous power to rule and dominate. What are we doing? Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this law with these remarks that we have made. We hope that there will also be people in the commission who will be able to reason in the way that I have made arguments and counterarguments in this debate. And the SDSS Representatives' Club will join all those who will strengthen the legislative practice national and international when it comes to marking war crimes in wartime circumstances. The Single Democratic Serb Party's club, even though it was itself but fortunately will not oppose those who will abuse that kind of experience, this type of crime for another type of sin, and it is rare and criminal, which is to conceal a crime, not to raise awareness of how the crime was committed and at the same time to insult and humiliate other people who did not deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110387	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first to appear for the replica was the esteemed Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110388	Dear fellow Pupovac, it's really very interesting this theatre performance of yours especially when you're talking about victims. All the victims you mentioned were victims but some have a judicial epilogue like Dubravka Jagodic, the case of "Lore" and many victims do not have a judicial epilogue. And that's what this is about. If the victims of this law had a judicial epilogue here, then this law shouldn't, then it would become the Institute for damages. But he's gone. Indeed, I am surprised at your appearance, and I am more surprised how many witnesses you need to determine a crime. Two? What if there's only one? And what if there's not one more because they all died or ran away, what in that case? Then what are we going to do, Mr. Pupovci?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110389	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110390	Dear colleagues, I can't say for your stand that he's theatrical, but I can't even say he's honest. When you mentioned a person by name and last name, you should have mentioned other facts about that verdict and the practice of the trial. But you didn't. ... Yes, it's nothing to you when the debate is opened and of course it's not the subject of the law but you mentioned the abolization and you didn't mention that the abolization was applied to those people who raped the person you mentioned. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as for the witness, as for my moral feeling as for Mrs. Scare-Ozbolt, I don't need any witnesses. Not one. I've had enough of my moral sense. And for these things that have happened that you call theater in my speech, as you will probably call this replica thematical of these things, of course, I could testify just as much as you do. Not just a moral feeling I didn't compromise with. I'm not sure about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110391	Second replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110392	Dear fellow Pupovac, one sentence asked me to answer the line, and that's that sentence that either you didn't understand me or your colleagues who said it or I misunderstood you, I don't know if it was right to write down whether the rapists were the ones who were walking around town or just walking around town. First of all, I don't know any rapists, and I don't think people who walk around town are rapists, but women who are raped or men have said they're seen in the city and raped, I believe them. I trust those women. So that's what those words mean. Not everyone who walks. At first, it never occurred to me that any ethnic group I'm stagmatizing, and I think the crime is individual, but that there were systems in these crimes, as there were systems and in other armies, there were systems. Those involved in this system need to be held accountable. I fully agree with you, rape is rape. It also bothers me in the 14th article of the last indent. Because if someone who's convicted of a crime is raped in prison, do we have to let that happen, it's the same crime against him. I'm talking now to someone who's convicted, even convicted, proven guilty, and when he's raped to him, a crime has been committed. And this article is certainly controversial. That's controversial. Either someone was raped or not raped, it wasn't equalizing guilt, rape was an individual act with what we said, with the intention that it was because it was encouraged, it was allowed, and it was part of the plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110393	The replica matches Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110394	My dear colleague, if I were to manage what I hear from the people who say we meet those who beat us and who killed us, I would take on myself powers that don't belong to me, which means I'm investigating and judging. I believed some people countless times, so I burned myself. And in this matter, as in any other claim, they must have evidence and must be supported by evidence. If they turn into a public campaign, then there's no trial, then there's no need to prove it, and there's a problem. If I were the Serbs in Vukovar who talk to me, or in Karlovec or in any other person, and you know, you and you did it, so I don't keep counting who did what in the war, no. It's the job of those we have to trust, which means investigative authorities and judicial authorities. And it's just that there's a problem, not that anyone can say or should say. Absolutely can and should be said, but not as part of a campaign, but as part of a true devotion to justice and to determine who did it and who did it find evidence that it was done. It's my point of view, and if my own brother were born or if I were alone, I couldn't make an exception.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110395	Time. Replica, dear Dujomir Marasovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110396	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Comrade Pupovac, I've seen your speech here at the pay phone as a rape. Yes, you raped me, I publicly declare it, and I think you raped all of Croatia, especially the Croatian people. And this speech turned you into an ordinary defender, perhaps a strong word for a speaker, those rapists and those who committed these heinous crimes. I don't accept any other explanation on your part in replying to the replica for the reason you said two witnesses weren't enough. So someone came into Bor's neighborhood, raped one woman, two men raped, two children saw either husband or son, no other evidence because it's been 5, 10, 25 years, so that's not enough for you, and... there's enough evidence... from Belgrade or direct evidence in one man's court. According to that testimony was convicted someone in.... So double... double criteria. And for rape in peace, no witnesses are asked for, but only evidence and a woman's application after 20 years in America, after 40 years, but there's no evidence because it's been so many years. So you're aboliating, you're advocating to cultivate these crimes. It's a shame to hear in a council like this. Whoever raped a woman is a criminal regardless of faith, a nation should be convicted, arrested, sentenced, punished and paid. It's a sad feeling on your part and you're a university professor now, and I'm a popper. My logic is nothing, and you are all-knowing. This is rape in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110397	The reply to the replica, Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110398	Comrade Marasovic, you know before you rape anyone when you speak or when you say a word, the first thing you do is rape a healthy mind if you have it. But God wasn't too generous to some people, so then their health with brains isn't constant. You're a doctor, you may not be of the profession that is necessary for that, but that's where the thing comes from. As far as witnesses are concerned, it's not in the law that it's going to be a practice, but it's possible as a practice. And he doesn't say anywhere that one or two witnesses won't be credible and enough to prove themselves anywhere, nor would anyone of sound mind dispute that kind of witness or that kind of testimony. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110399	Peace. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110400	Thank you. In other words, we only express the reserve according to the possibility of witnessing in the way we know it was being witnessed, and it was being witnessed not by credibility but by purpose, by purpose. And if you think that by accusing me of raping a nation, you're going to stop me from saying that you're hardly wrong. They used to accuse on behalf of the party, today they accuse on behalf of the nation. There is always some higher reason why they want to silence those who think differently and who are leading their vice president for a deep moral reason want to speak in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110401	Thank you very much. We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor Schooker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110402	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you who otherwise react very zealously when it comes to HDZ representatives have violated the Rules of Procedure, Article 238(5), where it says: demeaning or insulting the president or other MPs. I think Mr. Pupovac went far below his intellectual level to address a fellow representative. That's how people usually talk when they have no arguments, and I don't think he has any argument for his debate today, and unfortunately with his replicas and answers to the replicas he's sinking deeper and deeper and deeper. And I therefore consider Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament that, in accordance with your practice and your way of conducting the session in the Croatian Parliament, you should have interrupted Mr. Pupovac's speech and given him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110403	Interpreting from the president's desk. If I let my colleague Marasovic call Pupovac a rapist, and I let him, I did not interrupt him, then I was obliged to allow this replica to be answered by Dujomir Marasovic, telling him that God had not given him too much of his mind. It is the same attitude toward MPs, which would be good otherwise to keep heavy words, especially to avoid insulting one another. I did not interrupt Dujomir Marasovic, because you would at the same time raise this breach of the Rules of Procedure and claim that I have an unfair relationship with Croatian Democratic Union representatives. I don't! But every time someone tells a representative of the Croatian Democratic Community what's going on, it's not the injured Rules of Procedure of fellow Schuker. If you have any problems with this interpretation, please contact the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. ... Now I give you my word again because you've re-injured the Rules of Procedure, so tell me what I am, because I was the only one who could have hurt the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear it.]] With what, which provision of the Rules of Procedure and in what way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110404	That's right. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, you said when he said, when he told him what was going on. So, you completely agree with what Mr. Pupovac said. Therefore, you need to give yourself a warning, for you have no right to offend. And secondly, you run this session. You can't go on your own terms. You, if you thought that colleague Dujomir Marasovic violated the provisions and rules of our Rules of Procedure, then you should have warned him. But I say you said when someone says what they're going to say. So, you fully agree with the findings of your colleague, Pupovac, and therefore you have violated Article 238, paragraph 5, and you need to give yourself a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110405	You or I did not listen well or have a problem understanding what I said. I didn't say in this particular case, but every time anyone says something that HDZ doesn't like, you're picking up a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Or when anyone tells you anything in any case you're going to do what you're doing, you're raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I am telling you about this relevant Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. ... Then it means you don't believe what you're saying. [[You can't hear it.]] If you won't take it. And then don't put up with it. That means you've rated this statement yourself. We continue the debate, and that will be the continuation of the replica. Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110406	I understand part of your positions that you have presented and they are in some way understandable, but I don't understand since you've been in the Croatian Parliament for many years, for many years in fact why in this way you're actually further heating up those passions that you are calling on to calm them down. It's just that being honest isn't the most understandable thing. I can understand and that is one burden that you certainly carry and representatives from your party the fact that a part of the national minority in Croatia to which you belong participated in an armed rebellion against the Republic of Croatia. And that's the circumstance that was the way it was, the war ended and that we're actually the side that won. It was the very ones who took part in that armed rebellion. And that's one historic circumstance that you must accept. I also think that you must accept the fact as we all have before the law the same and as for the prosecution and prosecution of all those who committed crimes independently of the party in which they participate that also the state who defended itself and who won the Homeland War and who was on the side of the defense has the right to determine how and how, by what means and to what extent those who took part in that war, who created the country, who were victims on that defensive side, etc. And that's exactly what this is about. So I think that's the individual mention of certain events, each of us can mention them. I have experienced them all by myself, but I never mention them, because I think the mention of these events and those that I have seen, and not those about which someone has spoken, would not in any way contribute to the constructiveity of the debate in the Croatian Parliament, nor our view of the past. So I think it would be good if we actually tried constructively and talked about this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110407	Replication response, Your Honor, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110408	Dear colleague, I am of course in order to discuss as much as possible. If discussed then it is actually always constructive to exchange arguments, evidence, claims of any kind. So, I'm really into it. It was not my intention to argue, but unfortunately very often when I mention things or when I talk about things that are not talked about enough in our public in the Assembly, which is the experience of Serbs in Croatia in the war, then it is rarely seen as a distraction of negative feelings. It's unfortunately the price that goes with that debate. I don't intend to insult anyone, especially the victims, especially the victims. And when it comes to winners, '93. For years, we passed the Law on the Rights of Civil and Military Victims of War. Among them, it is also possible for members of the Ustasha army, namely the defeated army, the international criminal army that organised the state to commit genocide recognised by the right to the foundation of social rights. No one today...... Mr. Vice President, there are 14 seconds left. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[/Intruder Stazic: Please peace in the assembly. Don't throw it away!]] Let your colleague Shuker speak and give him the power to put in my mouth what he thinks I should say. [[/Intruder Stazic: Here I try to calm them down, but it is a matter of home education. Go ahead, you go ahead.]] Because obviously he doesn't have that power and it's the only power that rains on him that he can put in my mouth when he can't control my mind, so he can put in my mouth the words I'm supposed to say. [[You have the right to say what you think.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110409	A new replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Pupovac, I already thought we'd agree on something, it's about the victims, the victims committed by the aggressor and the definitions that were the aggressors. However, when you go so far as to say that some of you are stigmatizing minority communities as a whole with allegations that should be within the law that the aggression has been committed by Serbia, JNA, militia and Chetnik militias, then it is clear that I don't know who we represent? When you mention Virovitica, Novska, that the processes last, they are visible, no one hides them, no one escapes from them. The movie, if you'd watched the movie, would have seen clear testimony and Peter Galbright. I don't know why you avoided him. There is a book, everything is written, at least part of those confessions with the clear names of those perpetrators who are allowed to sell houses and flee to Serbia. What's that? What is this way of working state bodies? I'd wonder when you're calling on state bodies. When you say where's the movie about that family from Virovitica, the team from Novska and the team from Lora, I think enough from the state budget and your community is receiving money, you could have financed it. You could have been that promoter and those crimes as we call them all together. But these testimonies certainly cannot be ignored by your appearance or by your request to amend those items in the law proposed by those who were the most injured and the victims of the rape.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110411	Replication response, Your Honor, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110412	No one, a colleague, common sense and any knowledge of a minimum, could have come from the assumption that no crimes of rape were committed. And knowing the atmosphere and knowing those who had then had a capital word among Serbs since '91. '95. I wouldn't be surprised if it was worse than it was heard. Because they relieved themselves of any moral obligation and moral responsibility and as if a mad dog had been released from the chain. You don't have to tell me that. But you and I both know that my mention of these three places is not a sequence followed by a point but only three of a possible long series, unfortunately. Therefore, my and my discussion of my club, which, as you have heard, supports this law, is only in the direction that the law applies to all who were victims of rape. And if you're going to go to a different formulation then you're going to come to a state that after 20, 30, 40 years you're going to be as we have today and that's to discover the victims after World War II, so we're going to discover them even after this war. Except it'll be some other actors. And we, you and me, will be remembered for how we treated the opportunity and the time to discuss it when it was time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110413	Thank you. A new replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110414	Thank you very much. Comrade Pupovac, colleagues and colleagues, that before we all decided to speak in this House, we asked the question of how much courage it took for these women to stand in front of the cameras and say what they said would probably speak differently here. You, unfortunately, missed with your argument. You may have had a good intention, but your debate offended the very women who had the courage to talk about some casualties. Why am I saying that? If each of us were to pick up individual cases then the debate would take place on-ho-ho and then if we were to measure the time the crime took place, I don't think it would take us anywhere. So, you unfortunately tried to teach here today even though you were neither you nor any of your club but no one from the minority club was present at the screening of the film and no one called you for it, no one called you. But if we'd all looked at that movie, we'd have discussed it differently, differently. Because today is not a topic of political muscle strengthening, this is a topic to help those who unfortunately cannot be helped. For the pain of their soul and their heart is so deep that no material compensation can cover it. And instead of showing today this amount of humanity and that if anyone has any objections to the technical provisions of the law to correct it and to pass this law, your debate has gone unfortunately wrong, unfortunately. You may have had an honest intention but you misread it. And I think it's just that what you said later through some replicas isn't at the level of a man of your intellectual abilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110415	Now I'm gonna give you an answer for this? So I ask you, should I warn you about this? ... Replication response, Milorad Pupovac. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110416	I've been a colleague of Shuker in this House for a long time and one of the things I've learned, and now you remind me of her, but I'm telling you I've learned that and I'm going to give a public witness. I know that my intellectual abilities especially in this House are very, very small, small and modest. So, I agree, I agree with you, and thank you for reminding me of that, but I just want to tell you that I have a lot of consciousness about it when I don't seem to have it. And now to get back to the very thing, the SDSS Representatives Club wasn't on film screening. And why do you ask only the SDSS Representatives' Club? Why don't you ask your party president where he was and where he is? Or do you think Milorad Pupovac and the others have a special obligation to watch some movies, and some don't? I know this is going to sound below my intellectual level as you say, but that's exactly what you're getting at that intellectual level, but that's not exactly how you measured it. So I'm starting to assume that this is what the president of your party could hear, and that's what I see, because his mind gives him terrible testimony, as I've heard and seen, and that's how I run myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110417	Time. Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, again Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110418	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238(1) says "A representative must not speak about a subject that is not subject to discussion during the debate." It was just done by Mr. Pupovac. The other thing is, I was saying the diametric opposite of what he said about his intellectual capacities. So, the diametric opposite of what he was saying. So, he was talking about a topic that I never spoke about in my replica, and that is why he injured the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Article 238, paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110419	He didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you know it very well, because now I'm going to explain why he didn't hurt you. This wasn't a debate, it was an answer to a replica. In your replica, you could replicate whatever you wanted, regardless of what you did. In response to the replica, one who responds to the replica can answer whatever you want and you know it as well or you don't know it. If you don't know, read the Rules of Procedure again. If you think I'm misreading it, I urge you again to contact the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system he is the best arbitration between you and me. Are you gonna do it or not? I'm asking you, are you gonna do it or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110420	I won't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110421	That means you're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110422	Because that request of mine can't cover your extraordinary anxiety today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110423	I'm not nervous at all, I'm a little tired of constantly interpreting the Rules of Procedure on your continuing injuries to the Rules of Procedure. But I'll take it well. Let's move on. Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110424	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Pupovac, first of all, we should start as they say, how did this all start, why are we here today, and why are we talking about this law today? You know it well, because the Serbian, Chetnik, Yugoslav, Montenegrin army crossed Croatia's borders with a desire and a war strategy to destroy, burn, undo, shut down Croatia and join Croatia. It wasn't the other way around. Shall we agree to that? We have to because it's true. And fellow Pupovac in Vukovar, I'm sorry that you may not have read or watched this film, you couldn't have been, it wasn't just you, it was the Croatian houses of Croatian families with white tapes, does that remind you of Nazism, does that remind you of the Jewish people who wore the yellow star? You mentioned in the context of all of our president's fellow buds, so he was a defense attorney, who had to resist those who attacked. What are we talking about today? We're talking about women. And what are you talking about when you talk about these women who were part of the war strategy of these attackers? You say it's one name and you say it's a campaign. Well, that's very sad. You're here in Croatia and you know exactly what's been going on. Virovitica, Laura processed, processes are still going on, nobody's keeping quiet about it, we're all aware of it, we're aware of a fellow Pupovac. I'm sorry to hear that from your mouth, your debate, see what caused it? Is that what you wanted? You mention the Ustashas and you didn't mention Draža Mihajlovic's rehabilitation and you didn't say you were against it and it's not right. That's the answer to all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110425	Time. I have to interrupt you because my colleague Shuker is going to tell me that I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, since I'm letting you speak out of time. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110426	First of all, as far as Draža Mihajlovic is concerned, that's what I was talking about in this Parliament in a replica of my colleague Marasovic, telling him "Far be it for him and for those who are his sympathisers." And in terms of rehabilitation, I also said what I had to say, you could hear it, not very wide but at least on Croatian television. I can tell you that again, but unfortunately, you're using the usual strategy of hitting and diphasing the one you're arguing with. Now let me get back to the thing. I repeat once again, if I didn't have a deep sense of respect for the horrors that women who were raped both in Vukovar and elsewhere, I wouldn't answer for a word. From that same moral feeling, I decided to mention others that had passed the rape and mentioned some, and you replied that the houses in Vukovar had been marked. They did. Did I tell you they didn't? I didn't. I said they did. And now I'm going to tell you that apartments in Osijek were marked as well as those in Zagreb. And now you're going to say that I'm opening up the stuff that I'm harassing the public with, which makes it impossible to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110427	Comrade twilight, no throwing, so we could learn that by the end of our term. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110428	And you know what I'm going to tell you in the end, somewhere around where you're sitting in my first term, after a debate that wasn't so rich in replicas. One MP on that side is when I approached him and told him I'm sorry, but what's the problem, why... [[Intruder Nenad Stazic: Time.]] He told me why you stayed here, that you didn't go to Serbia where you belong. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110429	Thank you. It's a new replica, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So this is really going far from the road to which it should go. We're talking here today about a law whose essence, content, I don't think there's an obstacle, I think that we all need to get legal protection to regulate rights and all that law, we're arguing today about the terminology that is very important to me, but I don't think it's crucial. You're saying that ethnic groups are being stigmatized, so no one mentioned it today. The fact is that everything we're talking about today is caused by aggression on the Republic of Croatia, and that doesn't mean that we should run away, and we all know who was involved in this aggression, but that someone's being petrified. How could I stegmatize my friend who was my soldier of another nationality? Why would he do that? You mention Laura's speeches don't need to be thrown on this side, you mention Laura, Virovitica, so what if you start hitting on me and you say there's still a string there's still no end. So where would those strings end if each one of them were to carry out its sequence? You mention the Vukovar that this gentleman over there and I can talk a hundred times more because we were born there and we lived through it all. Saying something about something where you haven't been at least isn't polite because you have to be aware that you won't always tell the truth. And going back to the past again through the Ustashas and the Partisans, so look, there's a lot more to it. Everyone here must know this independent sovereign Croatia did not create either partisans or Ustasha but Croatian defenders with their blood and at the will of the Croatian people and hold on to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110431	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac. Here you go. No, I don't. No answer. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS will speak to the respected representative Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110432	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I hope the rape victims didn't watch the transfer of one part of today's debate because I think one part of this debate in some segments has further humiliated the idea of law, but also humiliated all rape victims. Let's go back to the law that is before us, which I believe will be passed. Mr. Minister, I suggest you listen well to the proposals, there have been some proposals and amendments to the government that can still be put in place. It would be good for you to accept that, it would be good if it were really a law for which most MPs and MPs would raise their hand, because it was an extremely sensitive law. I agree it's actually a humanitarian attempt at a law that needs to close one book, one part of a book better said. But the damages we can't talk about would be illusory and that would be even dared to say senseless. There have been many issues here about the past, about the abolization, about the Abolization Act. Of course, anyone who understands the laws and can read knows that even '96 when we passed here we didn't really talk about the last law of forgiveness to those who committed a crime of rape. Therefore, all these questions that we have heard today and through the film and in these discussions and often in inappropriate, unmistakable, rather speaking parts of some debates, it is not a question for the Parliament because Parliament is not a courtroom, Parliament is not the State's Attorney's Office, Parliament is not the police and the Parliament could not, in any period, except that it could pass laws, of course could not process. The question remains why so few cases have been processed, but the answer cannot be given by any of us because politics has passed laws, and the Parliament has always been politicians, governments have always been policies for which all state attorneys, all interior ministers, all those who were part of the repressive apparatus did not seem to have done enough, it's another topic. But let's get back to the law. So rape as a way of fighting the most terrible crime. This is the way of war, it was a way of war through history, but unfortunately it was a way of particularly perfiduous during the aggression against the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War. And it's really a crime, especially a serious crime against humanity, and there's no doubt about it. What's certain is that neither of these laws will actually be able to remove any consequence and that should be acknowledged. Because neither of us, nor the law that will enter into force next year, can bring back killed pride, killed dignity, very often until the end and completely destroyed dignity, human humiliation, feeling often times and shame and guilt. I, on two occasions, spoke to women who were victims of multiple torture and rape through all that, who didn't want to talk about it publicly. One of them told me that she didn't want her family, so her husband, kids, she started a family after the war, she kept living with all those nightmares that kept her down, but she didn't want anything that was part of that past she was trying to bury to know anyone. And people are different builders, some want to speak, some at no cost want to speak, and this law must also respect and respect it. So this law must be focused on those to whom it is intended and these are victims of both men and women. So the law won't fix much, the law will just be another hand provided over, a message to all of us that the victims were not forgotten, that they weren't left alone, that we're with them because no 100,000 or 120 thousand kunas of course can return what was actually done during those crimes and that's that it's completely destroyed what's most important and that's the personal integrity of these people. So I understand that, and that's why I said in one replica before noon that it would be completely wrong to say how many of them we don't have, so we don't know exactly. I'm sure we'll never know exactly and never end up finding the number of victims of sexual violence during aggression, ever. But it would be completely wrong to talk about numbers at all. So like I said, there's only one person, it's too much. But it is certain that this government and all other governments will also find funds for this species, I repeat hand-handling and help to live something more dignified. I'd like them to say their opinions and associations about it, especially the associations that have here initiated and recorded this earthquake film. And now I'd like to make it quite concrete. Therefore, Article 3 states that one question is left, and some NGOs who are fighting for women's rights have also warned that this right cannot apply only to those who were victims of rape during captivity, so I think that Article 3 should be further explained, further clarified and further specified. And Article 12, which speaks of the commission. A commission which will have, in my court, a very difficult, sensitive, extremely sensitive job and a task where, among other things, it is said that members of the commission cannot be those persons who are not convicted of what is right and who are not subject to criminal proceedings for the offences for which the proceedings are initiated under official duty. I think that under official duty it should be omitted, so anyone convicted of any crime, any crime should not have the possibility of being a member of such a committee that will have an extremely, extremely sensitive task. And what I think will open up a lot of the Minister's controversy is the fact that, according to the draft law, the minister, whoever appointed it is members of the commission. So the minister will personally appoint members of the commission. This could open up a series of re-regreement, anxiety, debate, unnecessary accusations, regardless of who the minister is, yes, it should in some way further strengthen so as to avoid in the end that one good intention to bring her down on charges of who appointed who she was to, who she is to whom she is a friend and whether they are real experts etc.... I'll see, I might try to articulate some amendments in that sense. Here's a colleague and colleagues on this subject could be both long and short and wide and very simple because we're talking about a topic that is time-consuming, which hurts us all, regardless of whether we've ever met any victim, none of us except the minister, I suppose, were the very victim of such a serious crime. So it would be good to just through this debate and ask ourselves, and why, even with such sensitive subjects, we know how to share so badly and so deeply, we are incredibly masters. Why so deep and often and irreparably we succeed and politicize and use unbearable, often demagogy. And that's what I'm saying because I know what I'm about to say is going to cause some laughs and probably comments. Namely, many of us are, and that's said in the debate, watching this movie had tears in their eyes and it's normal and man could actually cry all day when he looks at only one fate, let alone all of what we saw, so I hope that at least one of these tears today was directed to Predrag Matic, Minister, Defence Minister of Vukovar from Trpinja Road, a man who was trapped in a Serbian camp, who was exposed to the tortures and humiliations we speak of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110433	Thank you. We're moving on to two replicas. First, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110434	When the allies freed the camp in Auschwitz, one ally, the liberator, met with a writer who later won the Nobel Prize, he may have weighed only 47 kg, said I didn't say anything, I just cried. That's what the prisoner of Auschwitz told the young man, tears don't help, but it's good for the government to show that he has a soul, that he's doing something. And I agree entirely with you for saying that this topic, so we can and Parliament serve to make discussions lively and so on, but when it comes to some topics, then all of us, regardless of any differences and diversity of view and in order to improve the law, all of which you have talked about and all of the speakers so far, that the victims finally find their satisfaction, but they have to talk to the drink precisely because of what this law applies to. You're very good at saying that it takes this bill, except for this material satisfaction to show these victims, the biggest victims that they're not alone. They didn't talk about it for a long time, they asked for someone else to talk, silence was here. So once again congratulations to you, Mr. Matić, who recognized this and now we're all talking about it. And then they joined themselves in every honor and association that talked about this problem, about a difficult, difficult one problem that we've been silent about for many years. And this is a special problem. Unlike those who have lost a leg, so let someone in the war lose a finger, a deep bowing to everyone, but this is a special weight, here is a wounded heart and will never heal but it is our duty to do everything on our part to recognize and confess.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110435	Time. Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110436	Thank you very much. Well, of course, and that's why there are discussions and discussions, there are topics and topics, there are topics that should really always be with a sense of respect, first of all, that's exactly the one with a sense of respect for those who are victims we talk about. Unfortunately, I don't think it's been said yet. Many of the victims of sexual abuse are unfortunately no longer alive because their health in every sense has been so and so disrupted that they have suffered further from severe diseases, unfortunately mostly cancers and there are no more of them among us and this debate means anything to them anymore. But for those who are alive and still want to live with their families, we should do so even if their sacrifice must not be in vain, absolutely in vain. So what they've endured, all those victims and women and men, has suffered this terrible sacrifice unbearable to democratic Croatia, however pathetic that sounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110437	New replica, Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110438	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Kosor, in your discussion, you said that from talking to the victims you actually found out that the victim doesn't want to know precisely because of the problem of social stegmatization of victims of sexual abuse. This is why this law, or this second reading, does not accept the proposal given, which is the proposal to introduce a secondary procedure. However, because of this, it is not because the party is being obstructed, which obstructs the victim’s right to a legal remedy, but we are just holding that the procedure should be carried out precisely because of the victim outside her usual environment because of the prevention of such further Stigmatisation because, in this way, by passing such a law, we are actually allowing victims to say that the whole procedure is actually taking place in one place, that it is not actually in the places of their living environment, that there is no further stigmatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110439	Replica response, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110440	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I told some victims, so my experience in talking to a person, it was mostly women who said they didn't want to talk about it publicly. He probably won't contact this committee either, or it's been years, maybe he will. But we agree for sure in one thing, that all these remarks that have been made, I also see in that light that this procedure is made as easy as possible, that it is simplified because every appearance in front of unknown people, which will be members of the commission and members, will certainly be further trauma. So this procedure must be extremely simple and absolutely at any moment in support of that person, that woman, or that man who smiles and comes and none of them will come for 100,000 kunas but will come for a part of that painful book to close. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110441	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the esteemed Drazen Djurovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110442	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, the promoter made significant changes between the first and second readings until the final draft of the law, and when the first reading was very clear we made several elements of the bill that we thought were not acceptable in the first reading and we asked that they change and supplement what we actually saw in this final proposal that it was done. Three things were very important that we felt should be complemented and changed. So the first was to define in a very clear way who was the victim, who was the aggressor and to prevent possible manipulations about the perpetrator and about the victims. We think it's clearly defined in this final bill of law. The other thing was that, in fact, the victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War were guaranteed a clear fee or some amount of money that was concrete, which would be obtained in line with the possibilities of the Croatian state budget, not that it would be at the expense of some imaginary foundation that we also find in this final bill. The third thing was that the whole procedure to be implemented under this law was made available and the data of this were actually available to the competent state authorities and were in some way bound by criminal proceedings against the perpetrators, which was also introduced by the legislator in Article 36(3). With this way, the agreed law for us is acceptable as the HDSSB Representatives' Club. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, they made several proposals before amending and supplementing certain articles of the law. We also agree that it would be much better to have a special Article 2 that defines sexual violence in the Homeland War to redefine in accordance with some standards of how sexual violence is defined in wars and otherwise. So there are a whole series of documents, guidelines, statutes, charters that have very clearly defined what sexual violence is in war, in all wars, which are its elements. We should not specifically invent some of our definitions, definitions as they are here you will forgive me but in a slightly vulgar way defined and almost unworthy of a Croatian law. Therefore, I would agree, in fact, with the proposal to amend and supplement Article 2 as well as to propose associations and colleagues from the club or if there is any other proposal, so that simply the notion of this sexual violence, sexual violence in the war, is an international and legal concept that is very clear and strictly defined today. All its elements are known. Therefore, there is no need for us now in this article to invent any additional elements, and in particular to personify or focus that part of paragraph 2 relating to specific circumstances of beginning when the perpetrator is actually the victim. These are very vague and very problematic circumstances. So I think it would be much better if, in the definition of sexual violence, we actually adhere to those norms and those standards that international law has made very clear and that we apply them in the same way in Article 2. So either this amendment or the Proposer if he has, I think we could actually do it much better and in accordance with international law standards. When it comes to Article 1 this article is not so bad, it may still be possible to add the elements mentioned here. If they are added or not, it is quite clear in fact, it is quite clear, given that it refers to a declaration of the Homeland War which is thought of, what is it, who is the victim, who is the aggressor. So, I don't think that's something that's particularly crucial. The fact is that sexual violence today is very recognized in fact in all the wars that happen today, the wars that are currently being fought, sexual violence is one of the very powerful and very often applied instruments of war and at this point, and therefore it is actually in focus and international law as far as I can see and international law is dealing with this problem a lot, this topic. It's quite elaborate and I think that we just need to implement it and that practice itself, actually, if we implement it in the right way, then we're actually going to implement all of that, the whole gain actually that comes from it. It would also certainly agree with the proposal to carry out a certain security check for members of the Committee. I think that we have had countless examples at all possible levels and in all possible state bodies and public bodies where it has been shown that a certain security check would avoid a number of failures and numerous human errors that occurred in the selection of members of different state bodies, commissions, commissions and others, and in particular given this sensitive problem and since it is actually about the acts resulting from criminal acts. Therefore, according to the perpetrators, there will also be criminal persecution to the extent to which it is feasible. I honestly don't like the concept of the article of the 14th party used. So, the victim of sexual violence is referred to as a party, so the party is this and that, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, the party had a residence, the party was a member or was not an aide. I think that the party's notion is quite inappropriate and I believe that some concept could be found much closer in fact to the victim of sexual violence than to be called a party as it is called in Article 14. It is a good thing that the right to psychosocial and legal assistance for victims of sexual violence is also put in place. A good proposal is also to add elements of free legal assistance. The regional centres for psychotraume, the national centres for psychotraum, I think that without greater difficulty, they can take on actually help as they have already actually been involved in helping victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War. Medical systematic examination is also good. As a doctor, I'm a little confused by article 20 and the right to medical rehabilitation, which is my personal concern. Because we know that medical rehabilitation in spas is being conducted for specific medical indications, and I do not see exactly what indications the promoter in Article 20 aimed at when he talked about the implementation of medical rehabilitation in victims of sexual violence. So, psychosocial, health care, and so on, but medical rehabilitation, there are no proposing representatives here, but I don't know if he knows how rehabilitations are done in spas and what exactly a rehabilitation program would be for victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War. I think it's been prescribed, perhaps, from some models that referred to other groups, but I think we need to be serious and responsible both to people and to the state budget and to the facts and see what that should include. I really don't know, and I'm almost certain that none of the colleagues from the same profession here know in what way medical rehabilitation would be conducted in these specific cases. Also, what am I saying? We must be, no matter how we pass the laws, responsible both for the Croatian budget and for Croatian interests and for righteousness and for patriotism and in this case to the victims of sexual war. Therefore, none of us should look for the best-quality solutions in line with our financial opportunities and our condition and Croatia's concrete reality. So, as I was against the first proposal, so I think that here, too, we need to determine exactly what is really, which can be fixed, which makes sense, and if something doesn't make sense and if we can't determine it then it doesn't make sense. When it comes to cash compensation, no cash compensation that we all agree is not and cannot be sufficient in any way for those who have suffered a crime of violence, sexual violence in the war. This determined fee is obviously as defined in accordance with some of the possibilities of the Croatian State budget. I also find Article 27 a little vague about the rights of an heir. I hope it works in practice and that's something that's doable. I'm afraid that in fact, in this article 27, only a number of problems will arise, and that it will be realised in fact very few of these requirements. And in the end, however you turn those funds into the right legacy in Article 27, they will never come to the victim. I'm not sure I'm being honest with you, and I'm being honest with you, and I am, in total, as much as that article 27 makes sense to itself in the first place. But there it is, so it's set and good. But I think I'm saying that the victims of him will certainly have no use, and the heirs, the state, the commission and all those who will deal with it will only have a lot more procedures, problems and so on than we will in any way balance our desire and the need to in some way reciprocate to those who were victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War. And finally, this bill is good. He's good. So these changes I suggested are good. It's good for Croatia, it's good for us and there's no need for us to actually share ethnically or set any definitions about it. This is what the Republic of Croatia has done all it has done in recent years for all the victims' groups in financial terms and for the victims and for the disabled and for all those who have participated in the war now in some way trying to make financial compensation to people, primarily women and men who have experienced different forms of sexual abuse or violence in the Homeland War by aggressor. This is the act that the Republic of Croatia takes on its own without any demand, pressure, consent or in the context of a balance with any European gain. And it's worth it to the Republic of Croatia that in this way we're responsible enough, emancipated enough as a society to recognize these problems and to treat them this way and in this way we actually try at least, given that it's already a great passage of time, with some small fee still damage those who are victims. Of course, the question was raised by those who did not come from Croatia, so they talked about observers. This is, you will forgive me, but this is the Republic of Croatia, which is funded by Croatian taxpayers, those who pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia, have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and we are in the first row when it comes to financial rights, and afterwards we are responsible for the Croatian people beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia no matter where they live. And finally after that, we are responsible for everyone else. So I would, however, focus here on the Croatian citizens who were victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War by Serb aggressors and not, for example, if such an act happened to European observers and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110443	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Dear Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110444	Thank you very much. Comrade Djurovic, here in the last sentence you just corrected what I wanted to replicate. Namely, it is about that, and remember that debate at the first reading, that we were just talking about this law involving victims of aggression, so Serbian aggression on the Republic of Croatia. In Article 2, which you have quoted but not in this sense in which I speak, it says this way, "The acts committed under the circumstances are directly related to the Homeland War in connection with military and regular operations." So that's what we talked about in the debate, you might not have been at the beginning, that's not how you define it, but that's how you define it in the aggression of the Republic of Croatia. So that's what I wanted to tell you, but here's the last sentence you just fixed yourself. Otherwise, I agree with you that the law is good except that they are unclear in what and how physical rehabilitation will be carried out in some kind of spas, and it is vaguely foggy written and article 27 in connection with the succession of the rights acquired by the application of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110445	Answer Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110446	Thank you. Well, I said, as far as I'm concerned, I don't think there's any reason why I shouldn't support an amendment to the HDZ Club that very then descriptively described who is who in Article 1, but wrote it descriptively or incriminatingly, so there's a declaration about the Homeland War that very clearly defined who is the victim and who is the aggressor and all the elements of that war. That is why I wanted to say that this will not change the essential relations that will result from the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110447	Second replica Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110448	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Djurović, you mentioned Article 2 and the terms used in relation to Article 2. Therefore, in the very reason of the law, the definition of sexual violence committed in the Homeland War is defined and the definition is consistent with the newer international practice, in particular the European Council Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the 2012 Family, also includes Croatian Criminal Legislative Solutions. The definition also includes acts covering the Geneva Convention. Look, here's the thing, first we'll all agree that this is one very vulgar act at all, this act to me as a man is both unacceptable and unimaginable. Unfortunately, there are no apparently nice words to describe the act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110449	Replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110450	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Djurovic, I'm not going to spread, because I really agree with your debate, but in the part where you mentioned the very specific thing, I think it's very important, and you said that those who know something about making a statement in some way, and in that sense, I want to get back to you about the future I know something and about it, about medical rehabilitation. I think that this matter should be clarified since Mr. Minister also came in the meantime, that the problem should be highlighted because simply rehabilitating it is subject to certain rules, rules, and the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act. And in that sense, if it were to be put in this way if it were to go into implementation, it must again be the commission that approves such a kind of rehabilitation of the sea, it could certainly become entangled in the implementation, and in that sense it certainly needs to clear this problem so that it doesn't turn out to be seen we've now put it into law and there would be nothing from the implementation. And in that sense, I wanted to certainly support this endeavor of yours to make it quite clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110451	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110452	Well, yes, we all know how rehabilitation is conducted, we know that in the Republic of the victims of rape, therefore not in the Homeland War but in any rape victim, a person who has been committed, for example, total hysterectomy or any major gynological surgery or anything in that area, in fact, there is no medical indication for the implementation of medical rehabilitation because it is simple because medical rehabilitation is carried out in institutions for some entirely other diagnosis and cases. And here we have in law defined means psychosocial aid, aid in veteran hospitals and others. So, the part where you can really help people. So I just wanted to, maybe the minister doesn't know, that I just don't see what would really be the medical indication for the medical rehabilitation? Maybe that's how it came by some default, but I think if we sent one person, the victim of sexual violence to the Krapina spa, I mean rehab, I don't know what kind of rehabilitation could be conducted. So it's just a suggestion here to think and see if there's a need there, if there isn't one, nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110453	The last replica of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110454	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Djurovic, I'd only be tied around these doubts of yours to article 27 of the heir's right to receive a cash fee if in the meantime, until we pass this bill, the victim has passed away. I don't have any doubts, I support this right. And I would say that in some way it was a late justice or a late satisfaction and family members who lost their member or member because we have heard from everyone today during the debate that they said that this law is good that it comes very late. So many years have passed, many victims of sexual violence during the aggression, during the Homeland War they did not live to see even the judgments of power, let alone that they had welcomed this law, which in a certain way brings compensation for what they suffered. Well, I certainly advocate that this rightful heir and when it comes to victims of sexual violence during armed aggression, family members have the right to this financial compensation. I say, it seems to me in some way a certain satisfaction for the inaction of many and unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia over the past 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110455	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110456	Well, I agree on that, I just mentioned it because it seems to me like something that's going to create a problem, but I don't doubt it, and I don't know about it, and I'd say something about it, but it just seems like there's going to be a lot of problems in the implementation, just in the implementation. And as for the dynamics of compensation or the speed of something happening, unfortunately, I don't think the Republic of Croatia could have done much more damage, given that, as you know, the Republic of Croatia as an independent and sovereign state has compensated all those groups, and that whoever did the damage has never received a single kuna or a euro of war damage. So the Republic of Serbia deprives the victims of the Yugoslav army, JNA, Chetnik and others, and the Republic of Croatia has never won for it. So all this compensation in all forms goes from the Croatian state budget to the burden of Croatian taxpayers and the responsibility of the Croatian state. What I would ask myself is why the Republic of Croatia has never done more and may not have been able to ask those who have done all this evil to the Croatian state to pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110457	Thank you. I am now interrupting the debate and setting a break until 3:00 p.m. when my views will be presented by the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110458	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate. On behalf of HNS Representative Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110459	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament, dear fellow Members, dear Minister. Here's the law, the important law we're discussing today, which is very important for everyone, and we're actually correcting what in the testimony of those over whom this crime was committed, the crime of sexual violence in the Homeland War states that the most terrifying thing we're correcting is that those who have suffered the victim of a war crime did not get the status of the victim. And we are correcting that they are not being addressed by the state, we are correcting that they are not being addressed by society or state institutions. These laws recognise their suffering, and state institutions commit to psycho-social, legal, medical and other assistance to victims. The aim of the law is to restore dignity to victims of sexual violence, raise the quality of their lives, raise social awareness, promote truth and act in order never to repeat such crimes. If we're going to make it, it's hard to know if we're really going to make it 100% as hard as we'd like to know. But the least we can do is try and do it today. And that's why the HNS club will vote to join those who support this bill. Repeating the issue of why, except for representatives and representatives of NGOs, this issue has not been approached, does not contribute to any solution to this problem. Nor is the defence ministry’s praise for its efforts and respect for a whole series of objections and proposals in the adoption of this legislative proposal nor are they the essence of the subject. But what we will do through the institutions and through our human actions and efforts, what messages and speeches I do not mean only by making public references to the generations to come can have a significant impact on the terrible crimes we have heard about today and on the documentary of the Sun never again. Because this rape crime is equally terrible if not more terrible than other crimes cannot go without conviction, it must not happen again, and unfortunately this has happened in almost all war conflicts. And although rape in many military regulations has been banned for centuries, it was considered a normal and inevitable consequence of war. It was considered and is still considered an important war tactics. Raping in a war as a matter of fact, and everyone else isn't a matter of chance. It's a matter of power and control, and everyone's suffering and degradation of the victim, and often their social isolation. And in that, the worst of all is often incredibly completely distorted, but the profoundly rooted realization that this crime is in some way a disgrace and a stigma for the victim himself. This is why sexual violence in war is such an effective instrument and that despite the fact that, as a means of war and ethnic cleansing, sexual violence is not only destroying the victim and her family but the whole community, society is most often silent about it both in war and in peace. And that is why this issue should not only be approached in the context of war and conflict, but primarily through the impact on social awareness of unacceptableness and intolerance towards sexual violence in any form. Therefore, as a society, we need to develop much faster awareness that sexual violence is in war, that sexual violence is in peace unacceptable, inhumane, and that it must never be repeated. It is also quoted by the UN Secretary-General from a conference just over a year ago as being able to pull together and stop. A declaration on the obligation to prevent sexual violence in conflicts was adopted in the framework of the conference from the end of 2013. The declaration has so far been supported by 148 states that have committed themselves to political and practical action aimed at ending sexual violence in conflicts, and is precisely our country in the group of leading countries and initiatives. In a series of meetings within the group, it has been concluded that Croatia as the only EU member with a recent experience of war and direct face-to-face with this type of crime can also make a concrete and visible contribution to the international community's efforts to combat sexual violence in conflict, and to create a suitable model of reparation to victims. A particular model of reparation offers victims also the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War that we are talking about today. Will he give the victims their health back? Probably not. Will this law significantly reduce the suffering of the victims? Probably not. But will passing this law allow victims to recognise the status of the victim? Will it increase health care standards and allow certain rights to be exercised? Will it encourage victims to talk about crime and promote truth? Will it help raise social awareness of the harmfulness and condemnation of violence? The answer is yes. And that's why the HNS club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110460	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Franco Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110461	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with a quote from the esteemed Mahatma Ghandi: "Man is so much less patriot if he's weak as a supporter of human rights.". In front of us is the Final Proposal for the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War. The passing of this law has unfortunately come 20 years too late. The Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, which is ahead of us, will grant the status of survivors, provide additional psychosocial assistance to them and their families and grant financial compensation for the terrible abuse they have suffered. The aim of the law is to overcome the isolation and neglect that victims have experienced, to help them reintegrate into society and to restore their trust in the system while changing social perception in order to alleviate the stigma and indifference of the society they face. Realising the right of this law is an expression of social solidarity and justice. It is true that existing legal regulations in the Republic of Croatia allow only a few victims of sexual violence to protect their rights. I am referring to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families which allows for the reparation or conditionality of the defence status, the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War on the basis of which all deadlines for the application for reparation, the Law on Responsibility for the damage suffered by terrorist acts and public demonstrations, the Law on the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for damage caused by members of the Croatian Armed and Red Armed Forces during the Homeland War, or the Law on the Determination of War Damage. I note that there is also a law on financial compensation for victims of crime, but according to the same victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, they cannot exercise the right. The passing of this law is the recognition of the suffering and the existence of the victims. The victims are confirmed that society has recognized them, understood their suffering, and are willing to provide every form of assistance requested. A special law that applies only to victims of sexual violence on the one hand strengthens social awareness through empathy for such victims, and on the other, it is a clear condemnation of the culture of impunity of sexual violence during wartimes. In relation to the proposal for a law in the first reading, some suggestions from the meeting of the Assembly Committees and plenary sessions have been respected and are set out in this proposal. The important changes are that the definition of sexual violence is complete by adding an expression during armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia and by calling for a Declaration of the Homeland War. The definition of sexual violence is regulated by calling for an international legislative framework, particularly the Geneva Convention, which regulates the problem of protecting the civilian population in war operations and is extended by the notion of sexual slavery as a form of sexual violence. It is open by adding other forms of sexual violence comparable to weight. The definition of the perpetrator as unnecessary has been deleted but Article 3 which defines the victim has highlighted the military characteristics of the perpetrator. It is important to highlight the military characteristics of the perpetrator in order to make a distinction from a civilian perpetrator who is not the case and subject of this law. Nationality of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed as a condition for the party at the time of the application of the law. They are excluded, and it is important to point out, members of the enemy military and paramilitary forces as well as those who have collaborated with the enemy from the exercise of the rights under this law. It has given up establishing a foundation, and cash compensations are prescribed and implemented by this law. A one-time payment of 100 thousand kuna, i.e. an increased cash compensation for the severe consequences of surviving sexual violence of 150 thousand kuna. Also, the monthly fee of 73% of the budget base currently stands at 2427 kuna and 98 limes. The deadline for the application for the exercise of the right under this law has been deleted, and all costs of the procedure fall under the burden of the state budget. My colleagues and colleagues took a look at the earthquake testimony together this morning, the documentary "Sun". I appeal to your solidarity, to empathy to victims who in many cases were not only women but also men. Men most of whom are afraid to speak publicly are afraid to think about it. It lies buried somewhere deep inside them. Except for the homosexual rape itself, there were all other preconceived and unimaginable forms of sexual violence against men. Given that this is about our laws of anti-natural fornication, which in a psychological sense means that the victims were exposed to the most traumatic experience that, in a psychological sense, destroys the foundations of a man's personality, that explains their need to not talk about their experience. Dear colleagues and colleagues and I heard in the debates this morning support this law regardless of party and political belongings. He represents the recognition of the terrible suffering and represents the confession of the victim. Under peaceful conditions, all victims of sexual violence do not report a crime. Research has been done saying that only 100 victims testify to their war experience, and this is an explanation why institutions do not have the exact data on the number of raped women and men. That is why the ministry cannot assume with certainty how financially difficult this law is. The reason is also the fact that under wartime conditions, the minimum chance of finding the perpetrator is also punishment, while at the same time testifying to the victims exposes themselves to the risk of the stigma of the environment in which he lives. In particular, it is expressed in men who have survived sexual violence for the first reason that nothing or rape has been said about it except women as victims. Men as victims were ashamed and at the same time imposed on them the feeling that they were same - sex orientations, or that they would be further stegmatized in society. This law is also a step forward when it comes to valorising the Homeland War, which unquestionably was a fair and liberating war, a war that freed our country, which allowed us to freely decide our fate. The Homeland War was imposed on Croatia and was imposed by the then Serbian leadership supported by JNA and the work of the Serb national minority in Croatia. It should always be pointed out clearly. And I don't see who in these places and in this country is it clear anymore? There's no equality between the victim and the criminal. Croatia was exposed to the most primitive form of propaganda and violence, and the Croatian people were forced to fight for their survival. But there are equating victims of such terrible crimes, there are equating these victims to the right to respect and that's how it should be, and that's civilization's achievement. This is a law on victims, and the focus of the law is on victims, not on those who committed those horrors. After all, I now speak as a former member of the Croatian Army, I do not want my participation in the war to be equal with the human scum that resorted to such types of violence. I want people like that prosecuted, gossiped about what they did because they didn't do it in the interest of my country. Those who used it no matter what side they came from are nothing but human scum and scum of the worst kind. There is some respect in war for the enemy, not in that romantic sense, but for those human to those beasts who resorted to these forms of violence I have no respect for were they accidentally dressed in the uniform of an army which I belonged to and to which I am immensely proud or uniform of an enemy army of such qualities I mean all the worst. If by some miracle they were in the uniform of the Croatian Army team up for them, then I condemn them more for such actions. By such actions they cast a stain upon all of us who fought with honor. A team is up for them because the Croatian Army has fought honorably and respected all international legal norms and is ultimately a winning army. A team up there for them because it's really about individual isolated, isolated cases. For the aggressor army, they can't say that there were isolated cases, they had a elaborate system of ethnic reading, and part of that scenario was sexual violence and abuse. This law is certainly a step forward because those who spent nights in the silence of the room in cramps and wages, those who do not want to remember what happened to them, those who may think in their suffering that they are themselves guilty of them now have the opportunity to show them the respect of the Croatian society and to confess their sacrifice, the sacrifice that is precisely the victim. I am the victim's status and the name that someone victim is causing victims to feel humiliated and feel that they are recognized by trauma and an act of abuse. By taking testimony, the victim turns his traumatic experience into a testimony and ceases to be an object already becomes an entity in the process of proving the crime. At that moment, she becomes the person who survived the crime of sexual violence. It was this process, which was precisely the process recognized by the United Nations and recommended that people who survived sexual violence should not benefit from the term of the victims but rather survive. I'm not an expert, and I can't rank the type of victim, but I think that when a person is exposed to sexual violence that it's the most cruel form of humiliation, it's a waste of dignity, it's an attack on the most intimate part of a person and I honestly don't know how those people who've been exposed to it deal with it. Those persons who were exposed to such tortures had no right so far, could not even exercise the fundamental right to treat with respect and the right to acknowledge suffering. For the first time, we have the opportunity to admit to these people that they were indeed killed in a war that led to Croatia's independence, that they suffered terribly, and that they were also civilians, whether military victims of war. And this law is exactly what he says the name of the Victims Act. Not about the perpetrators because they are dealt with and should deal with other laws, in accordance with the order Penal Code and do not need victims and perpetrators to be in the same law, this law should not sell camps as some have proposed because the names of these camps are infamous, the truth about them and about what was happening in them is a familiar thing. This law should only be acknowledged that the state of Croatia at that time of war was unable to protect its citizens from violence, and this subject of this law would be called by violence of the worst kind, violence that slowly kills its victim, kills her psychologically, kills him with terrible memories and traumas that remain behind such violence. And that is why Croatia is obliged to these people as well as to all the victims of the Homeland War to treat them with respect and to acknowledge their sacrifice. That's what this law is all about. At the very end, as at the first reading, I must quote again to Mrs. Maria Sliskovic, president of the Association of Women in the Homeland War, "These women have been dealing with injustice for more than 20 years, their thoughts are aimed at establishing justice and ending this war trauma where they know well who the victim is and who the criminal is." It's never too late to protect the interests of individuals, people, states. The nation of Israel is still persecuting criminals even though decades have passed. Learn from others, believe in yourself, and never be discouraged in protecting the truth about your people and your country. It's not nationalism, it's a duty." We will uphold this law on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110462	Thank you. We have one replica, Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110463	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Vidovic, in most of your content debate, I fully agree. What I repeat to you, you have said that this law is too late, I am convinced that this assembly of the Croatian Parliament from left to right will be proud of this law is it will be proof that the Croatian state and victims who suffered sexual violence in the war deserve this law. Sometimes the justice that comes too late is wrong, but I am convinced that this law will correct one injustice and that these women who have suffered and men are the worst forms of sexual violence in the war that they will be a little more content because this law will determine that they are victims. And the trauma of those who have suffered such crimes will carry for the rest of their lives. What we can do as persons in public political life is that these people must have a full understanding of society and the environment, and we must work to strengthen the awareness that these women have done something of their own free will because they still experience in society that these women seem to have done something wrong. They didn't do anything wrong, they're victims of violence, and this law makes it clear. Congratulations to the Ministry of Defense on this law, and he came at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110464	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110465	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, look, buddy, justice is slow, but I believe it's available. Why did I say it was 20 years late? I guess the Croatian society in the '95s, the seventh, the eighth didn't have enough power to face something like that. We know for ourselves, and here from my presentation from what I read in the literature of the victim of such crimes, they usually keep silent and very difficult to talk about. It would have been much better if we had been a society by then, and we had the knowledge that such things were happening that we had already formed psychosocial assistance teams and everything else so that we tried to regulate their status in some way. That's why I believe this law came 20 years too late. It's hard to treat after 20 years, but in any case he is an expression of respect for the victims, he is an expression of recognition, suffering, and he is ultimately recognition of the victims and these women and these men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110466	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110467	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. As my predecessor said on behalf of the club, that's after more than 20 years since the end of the Homeland War, the victims of sexual violence committed in wartime conditions are finally getting their own law. A law that recognized their problem, their suffering and incredible humiliation. Unfortunately, a number of victims, precisely because of this great time-out from the Homeland War, will unfortunately not have satisfactory for the horrors of life. Many victims have taken these horrors with them to their graves, and many today suffer their torment, alone or with their families, and it is especially terrible for those who meet their rapist free and without a shred of regret for the horror done. I don't really know what's scarier, dying once or dying every day watching a criminal laugh in your face. All of this should go to the heart of those who have not had political will, nor strength, nor the courage to face this problem and finally solve it. I'm going to say a few sentences about this problem through the aspect of gender equality. Namely, what am I saying? It is no accident that this law is passed only now, and it is certainly not an accident that this coalition government is passing it. It took many years for victims of war rape to be encouraged enough to even talk about this problem, and it took so many years for society to know and recognize this problem. A law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families was passed in 2000, and the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War was passed in the early 1990s. When it comes to women because this is primarily their law, although it is clear that men were also raped, it was more than 20 years before the law was passed. as if systematic rape of women as part of war tactics for the pursuit of aggressor war goals does not have the same weight as killing or massacre. All of this shows how patriarchal and domestically unfair society we are. I also said that it's no accident that this law is passed by this particular government. Obviously, she was more conscious, more naturally sensitive to this problem. She should have had the courage and the will to take that lump of crane, I'm going to say, face something so painful and sensitive and put it all into a concrete legislative proposal. Only someone who has experienced war horrors, tortures, and torture alone could do so in this quality. So Minister Matić, you have proposed a law that recognises life-threatening suffering to raped persons, determines the status of victims of sexual violence and gives them actually the most that Croatia as a state can give them right now. So rehabilitation through psychosocial, health and legal assistance, cash reparation and transport costs related to the exercise of repatriation rights. What is extremely important and valuable for all the rights under this law will be provided from the state budget, therefore from the position of the Ministry of Defence and not from the Foundation for Victims of Sexual Violence or from some other sources that were referred to in the first reading of this legislative proposal. Of course, this law cannot compensate for the horrors of victims of sexual violence but it will still raise the quality of their lives and that is what we can do for victims right now. However, it is equally important that the creation of a unique record of victims of sexual violence, so it is not a register of criminals but a record of victims of sexual violence, so data will be provided on the perpetrators, indirectly and will facilitate their identification and punishment, and so it will be determined by satisfaction for the victims. Finally, this law will bring Croatia into line with international standards and practices in the area of protection of victims of war crimes. Thus, the United Nations Declaration on the obligation to prevent sexual violence in war as well as the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of minimum standards of law, support and protection of victims. So to conclude, through this law, Croatia's perception will change, and I want to believe that the world will no longer experience the rapes of white women from the rape of Croats and Muslims as less valuable women from the Balkans as it is sadly said in the film "Sunica". I don't think on this bill we should demonstrate who the larger Croats are, but uniquely support him because the victim of the raped women and men is woven into a country that we all eat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110468	Thank you. We have a replica of Zvonko Milas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelash, of course we all support the content of how I said the essence of the law before and of course we are all for these victims to receive well-deserved legal protection. A colleague who currently doesn't have Franco has just said he needs to get his policy out of this law and under the quotes of "the credit." Surely it is necessary to take off the hat of all who have contributed to this law to see the light of day but first of all, it is for those to whom this law will concern tomorrow. And not because of this law and this respect and recognition, we will not give them the law, but rather give them that recognition, or respect, we should give them a whole relationship with them as people who are part of our community, the letter written on paper certainly is not, definitely it will not give them back neither dignity nor respect. The truth works, is there any... The laws that victims of sexual violence could ever achieve before a certain law of law, they weren't enough, they weren't good, they had limitations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here's how this is gonna make up for it, how those victims are gonna get the satisfaction they deserve if she can ever be enough. But I'm saying, the first thing this law sees is the light of day goes to those who will be users of this law tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110470	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Jelish.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110471	Dear colleague Milas, I fully agree with you that this law, or in the debate on it, should certainly be thrown out of politics. I also agree with you that the confession of victims of sexual violence should be manifested through one relationship with them. But I'm also convinced that this law has been a dying need, so all these years it's been obvious that this law needs to be done. And here's the government, headed primarily by Minister Matic, is the weave and courage and will to pass this law and to regulate the status of victims of sexual violence and to provide them with a certain and material satisfaction but above all, as you said and that one ratio of recognition to the victim they submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110472	Thank you. Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, this morning, we all witnessed that film, which, with the terrible confession of women raped in the Homeland War, has certainly moved us all together, and especially those who took part in those horrors and the minister who probably heard in those camps very often screams and women and men who were raped. So there are thousands of unspeakable stories and, of course, the exact number of victims is unknown and the question of when will they be known at all. According to the data reported, the youngest was raped by a 6-year-old girl and the oldest is an 80-year-old grandmother. That's why, Mr. Minister, I welcome you and all those who have been working on the law for the passing of this law. It's been many years since the war, we've heard this and there's actually a lot of talk about sexual abuse, more of course about women than men. I will remember here and the Resolution adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe which actually determines that sexual abuse or various other forms of sexual violence committed during the war in the countries of the former Yugoslavia are not properly resolved. And that, in fact, the victims were denied both the right to justice and the right to compensation. Of course, this bill actually makes us take the initiative to help, i.e. to correct mistakes from the past. We as a society therefore need to concentrate on aid and public support for victims in order of course to minimise these kinds of behaviors and therefore once again I welcome all those who have worked on this law. This law was also meant to combat the problem of smogmatizing victims of sexual abuse. In fact, victims often deny being sexually abused. You saw this morning by the expressions of women being abused in what way, by which pain they convince today. The victims have not had any support so far, therefore no victim has received any compensation, but the status of a civilian victim of war has not been recognised. Therefore, both this law and the abused women and the abused men should be told that they are not guilty of what happened to them. Namely, this humiliating act of inflows and fear and anxiety, and that is how that moral is actually broken, and that is why this is also part of the war strategy of the aggressor. The goal of the torturer is to cause as much trauma as possible, and psychiatrists know how much time it actually takes, or how much therapy it takes to get out of a simple trauma, let alone this deep. So it's a very specific problem with very questionable numbers. I'm going to stress here and the UNDP research, he's done research on victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, and based on the results that they've reported to be estimated to have been in the Homeland War around, violence that has suffered more than 2,200 people. This final proposal of the Law on the Rights of Victims allows for rehabilitation. Today there was a speech that was rehabilitation. In fact, we're going to take one broader term here, so since the victims are actually suffering from trauma, they need all kinds of rehabilitation, not just the psychosocial one. So this final proposal actually enables rehabilitation, and thus actually satisfaction through the recognition of their suffering, or ensuring that they are all helped, that I do not now count, that I do not repeat what my colleagues have said before me. I also express the satisfaction of respecting and including the remarks made during the first reading because this is a law that, of course, I think is in everyone's interest to make. Therefore, it is good that all those suggestions that could have been classified have actually been included. The law will also enable the establishment of records of victims of sexual violence, hence the segment will be satisfied when victims of this morning's film are actually looking for penalties for perpetrators. Thus, even in this way, if we have a record of victims of sexual violence, we may get to the perpetrator more quickly. I support that the deadline for the exercise of rights is deleted because, of course, it is necessary to enable victims to ask for that right when they feel ready because in this way we sensitize, open up opportunities for them, show them that they are not guilty, hence, and that they are actually looking for help for themselves. Here's to the commission or actually this law is, we've heard before, I'll repeat, that the focus is the victim. Now I'd like to compare the legislative systems of other countries, so here's the most where Slovenia came from, but they have that fund that we proposed in our first reading. However, when you look at how much praise this law and from those countries have been given, then it is evident that they may have gone within some legislative framework, but that the law is not being implemented. At the end of the day, I will also say thank you on behalf of all the victims and, in the name of all of us, in the name of society, for correcting the mistake of history and also thanking the broad working group because as you have stated yourself, you have received recognition from other countries as well. This law means we recognize suffering and, of course, it has to be compensated. I'm running out of time, and I'm going to say in the end that the Secretary General of the United Nations sent a message that sexual violence is the oldest and least convicted crime. It's time to actually reject the excuse that rape in war is inevitable. If we remain silent, of course, we support it, and that is why the ministers and this law show that we do not support it, and I hope that in the term of our government, that you will soon work or pass a civil sacrifice law in order to actually correct some mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110474	Thank you. Miss twilight replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110475	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bonačić, here I felt the need after your debate, and I did not answer the debates of your colleagues before, the need to say thank you but thank you and the Association of Women of the Homeland War, thank you for meeting the International Community, for meeting with this book of the Sun and collecting all these testimonies and sensitizing the public and the International Community. And of course you here, I understand, praise your minister. The Minister was only wise enough to accept what the Association of Women of the Homeland War has also proposed, but thank you and all the associations of the Homeland War who participated in all their remarks, amendments and I hope that the remarks and amendments that will come from the club, and not only ours, but those amendments of the other Associations of the Homeland War will accept that it will be a very good law that will not be a lot of objections. So I think here I felt the need to thank these women especially those who gained courage, and this Homeland War Women's Association gave them a special incentive, provided them with special programs to strengthen them. It wasn't easy to talk, today we saw it ourselves in this movie.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110476	Thank you. Answer, here's my colleague Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110477	You colleagues are absolutely right when you mentioned the Association of Women of the Homeland War and surely they have cried before. However, of course this has now come, our minister has heard it and thank you very much to everyone and to all the associations and working groups and to all of this law. So no one here has ever said anything about one man. It is clear, however, that this minister passed this law and we cannot run from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110478	Thank you. Next up for debate, Vice President Nenad Stazic. He's gone? He's losing his right to debate. Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So I'm just going to say something else that I haven't succeeded today about this law that certainly has its own good side and comes now that it's really clear to everyone that the victims of sexual violence by JNA, by the paramilitary, militia and all those who and as civilians have done it is necessary that satisfaction be experienced, that compensation be made, that criminals are also punished. All this might not have been the case if it hadn't been for Mrs. Vinton's initiative as head of the UNDP Office in Zagreb, which, with the funds collected, directed them towards supporting victims of sexual abuse, and then the UN High Representative had a special meeting with the victims and heard the testimony for the first time. This is what has not been said in today’s debate and is often unknown. What can be read, and in the amendments it is presented, would be good to adopt and define as the title, as well as the facts that are visible in today's film, which is that who were the aggressors, who were those beasts who committed such crimes against the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who were those who gave themselves the right to act as aggressors in the Republic of Croatia and such atrocities. It is regrettable that from the reports that have arrived on my request at the Croatian Parliament it is not too visible. So, on February 17, 2015, the State's Attorney's Office sent an answer to my question about where it came from and what it did. But beyond all collected information and data, the Ministry of the Interior has found that there is a suspicion that during the Homeland War over 187 women war crimes of rape or other forms of sexual abuse could be committed. For the time being, it has been found with certainty that a war crime has been committed against 83 victims. The state's attorney's office found out about these victims by reporting war crimes against 38 victims. 30 victims only reported a felony. Other witnesses, eyewitnesses, listed data on the work for 8 victims, and 7 victims were received from NGOs. Of the 83 victims, 60 victims testified about their rape during the Homeland War in various stages before the pre-trial and criminal proceedings either in front of the police, state attorney or court. Ten victims refused to testify or denied that during the war they were raped, and 13 victims died or are still missing. As regards the data on the processing against 43 victims, the conduct of the investigation is under way, 5 people are under investigation, 18 persons have been charged, 10 people have been convicted, 2 persons have been suspended, and 1 person has been sentenced. These figures, as well as the response that follows on media allegations as criminals, are free to walk. Under quotes, the State Attorney's Office called on persons who provided such knowledge to make statements and verify such allegations in the State's Attorney's Office. But so far, no evidence has been collected to indicate that the persons to whom those offences were referred have committed. And that's what regardless of this law, regardless of today's day-long debate, this is what's most discreet and critical in the answer I've received. This is really hard to believe. But as we have heard today various attempts to turn away from this law, as well as the convictions of such phenomena and acts, it is clear that there is not too much will in the institutions of the state government to bring the perpetrators to justice, adequately prosecute and punish. We've seen this from a lot of examples, and these are the most obvious. And the freshest answers to what must not happen. What can I say? The law is necessary. We were restrained only because of those things put in it as alleged so that regular forces and military-redhartic operations of the Croatian military and police would be placed in the context of the doing of these acts. Instead of realising the aggressors, the real perpetrators, all those who did this for our potential perpetrators, the processes are well under way, some of them endure punishment, and they ended a long time ago. That's what we also have insight through criminal records and through all the demands in the current course. He can't make up for anything that's suffered the victims, either male or female. Nothing can be returned or charged for all that has happened through this brutality and atrocities. It is thanks to all those who have done everything to make these testimonies available to the public today as well as to Croatian representatives. It is thanks to all those who continue to strive and encourage victims to be witnesses and to be satisfied through time as well as through this law. It is clear that if these amendments are to be adopted in this law that will further improve them, it is necessary for all of us to bring together what is necessary, so that there are no abstentions or doubts about whether it is done in order for someone from the NGO to again to put a sign of equality between the victim and the aggressor, although for all the same legal regulations in this law that should be special and in the title to stand in what is in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia as well as in the further text and Articles 1 and 2 of this Law. These are important assumptions that really I, as the man who welcomes this law, could vote for him in the next row. But I think that all other reasonable advocates also accept that here with these little improvements in the way of the amendments we can significantly fix and bring together what is really necessary and for which there are relevant reasons. I believe that according to the estimates that have been made that there will be no so many victims, 2200 people as assessed through sociological research, and I would like that assessment never to be correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110480	We have one replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110481	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djakic, in the vast majority of what you've brought out, everyone in their right mind will agree. I would especially like to stress that I also personally agree with your view that it is necessary to stress in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia. It should be acknowledged that this reading of the law compared to that original proposal is a major shift. That's what I don't think anyone's slowing down. But with a little more work done, we can get what we'd all like, and that's a consensus. So there should be no one who, for any reason, will have any doubts about the adoption of this law. But I'd say one more thing, we're going to pass this law that will regulate the rights of the victims. But this Croatian Parliament should think very carefully about changing the penalties for the perpetrators of such difficult ones at all, let alone legitimate crimes. For the perpetrators of rape, the death penalty should be returned to the Republic of Croatia. And I honestly tell you and my personal opinion does not want to offend anyone by introducing Sharia law to them. For every one who commits rape there is no mercy and there should be no mercy. So just try to ask any of these victims and what punishment is enough for them? If there's any reason to return this most severe death penalty, then it's rape.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110482	Thank you. Answer, colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Buric, we found ourselves on the same trail so that it would really be good to bring this law into force and that's what we're trying to call who the aggressor was, as it says in the Homeland War Declaration. In this death penalty initiative of yours, I hope those who write the laws will talk about it if they are looking for Hungary today, then the Hungarian prime minister, probably called for neighbors, and so will you. I wouldn't want to say anything about it. But that's worse than murder, that suffering must be harder than anything else I believe it is. And it's hard to find a punishment that could narrow it down and that could... The victim. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's really hard to say in any way, but I believe there will be enough reason and that the state institutions will not let them sell houses and go to Serbia because they should have prevented our police forces and the state's attorneys from determining detentions for such, looking for witnesses, finding additional actions that would prove and show that criminals in the territory of the Republic of Croatia are not making fun of walking freely on the streets and that they are not proven to be them. They were probably sitting with us in the Parliament, sitting in the institutions of the Croatian state, and we did not call it at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110484	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Minister Fred Matic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110485	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs thank you at the end of today's theme of passing the Law on Victims of Sexual Abuse. Thank you very much to the great majority of you, I would say almost everyone you hit the topic and for that I am grateful to you, you were very constructive and here, as said after the first reading we appreciated we would say justified reasons to improve the law, there's no reason to even today what we heard, we don't insert some things, we're not going to insert everything but certainly the ones we're talking about. So the vote won't be on Friday, but we'll leave for next week. I've already got the amendments. We'll take a look at it at the government. So, once again to point out this law is not a law on perpetrators and what needs to be done to the perpetrators and what needs to be done to the perpetrators, this is a law of sacrifice, a law of sacrifice, it is a law of good, a law of heart, a law of recognition of suffering and sacrifice, or as a humanitarian law has already been said. Because that's why 23, now almost 24 years from the time of these heinous crimes against our people has been so long and we have everything really on our fingers can be counted by the rightful judgments. To wait for justice, it would probably take at least 1,000 years. So we're going with this law and I can only mention it, so I've already got, I've really got constructive amendments to that term damage compensation because the damage can't be compensated, I accept that that's, that's a good term that's not a fee in that sense. The appointment of members of the commission, Mrs Kosor asked, therefore, not to appoint a minister, or here he also asked Academyman Reiner, not to appoint a minister after his boss, but rather to do so in the course of employment as the minister forms a commission to choose the commission. So I don't mean what you mean. You have a bad imagination, I don't mean that. Rules, we've put into law up to 90 days, but we've already got things prepared and it's going to be simple in that sense we've given ourselves a little luft, it's going to be rules before we're done. So, as of summer or early, we're going to have our first demands clear and we're going to start recognising our status because we've provided at least the starting funds for the first victims to come forward. So, like I said, some amendments we'll respect, they're very constructive. And here is the topic mentioned by Mr. Buric at a major international conference on the prevention of sexual violence in war conflicts in London and our vice president said, Vice President Pusic said a good definition of how to eradicate rape. So the rapist, unfortunately even in our neighborhoods is a guy or what they would say to me in Slavonia, unfortunately, but they need to be done as they did and thank God for that the cannibalism was eradicated. So cannibals were completely rejected by society and certainly not recognized as guys but as the worst thing that could happen. And when we achieve that the rapists are condemned and rejected by society, then, in fact, those in the future will, God forbid, but some future conflict will not occur to them to commit these crimes against the powerless. Here again, I thank everyone very much from the heart for a very constructive debate, and I am sure and I hope, but I am sure that this law will be passed unanimously because this is a sacrifice law, and the victim who has been waiting for her justice for 24 years has earned it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110486	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. Minister, I would like to thank you for your presence at the session. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110487	Can we check the quorum state? We can see the number. We can decide. Thank you very much. Let's first decide the Final Bill on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, second reading, P.Z. No. 685. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline laid down by the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, who's in? You're voting. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 82 votes, we have accepted that we are discussing and deciding the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like the Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Honorable Vesna Nadj. Amendment No. 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110488	Thank you, Mr. President. Amendment No. 1 in Article 2 paragraph 1 is amended and reads: Sexual violence in the Homeland War is what was committed against criminal law or international humanitarian law and Geneva conventions as a crime of war crimes or crimes against humanity and a crime against sexual freedom which is not....
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110489	Dear Deputys, you can read the explanation, all the text of the amendment has been given to MPs otherwise you would not be able to debate. Just an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110490	The amendment nomotechnically amends Article 1(2) and clarifies the link between committed sexual violence and war operations and the action of both conflicted parties. The last indent is separated for the purposes of dissenting these two forms of sexual slavery and other forms of sexual violence, since the second form of sexual violence is comparable to the weight of, for example, humiliating and degrading procedures and all the severe abuses of sexual nature that are applied to the physical and moral integrity of a person not lying down and is not related to sexual slavery but refers to any other form and should be separated in the indent.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110491	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most 90 votes are in favour and 1 abstention, nothing against the accepted amendment No. 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment No. 2nd Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110492	Amendment No. 2. Provisions shall be legally and nomotechnically edited in Article 3 and shall be added in a way that covers all characteristics of the perpetrator, i.e. all perpetrators equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110493	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 2. The vote is over, please result. I find that most of the vote is 83 votes in favour of, 2 abstentions, nothing against the accepted amendment No. 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment No. 3rd Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110494	Amendment No. 3. The provisions of Article 14(1) of subparagraph 1 shall be aligned with the fact that the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union or in the rights of its citizens is aligned.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110495	I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please enter into force on the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 3. Vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 87 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and nothing against the vote is accepted. 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment No. 4th Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110496	Amendment No. The provisions of Article 24(1) and (2) shall be complemented in the sense that it is further pointed out that the cash compensation is not and cannot be compensation for all the consequences suffered, in particular because this is a administrative procedure which does not determine the damage suffered in accordance with the court criteria for the compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110497	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 4. The Government of the Republic of Croatia because we have a respected representative, Vesna Škare-Ozbolt. You want to come here, on behalf of the club?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110498	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Minister. You don't consider the word total damage to mean that you've begun to build on the term of damage in the law. I don't think the term is considered a full-scale damage entirely wrong term because this law, as we all have concluded, is not a law that regulates any compensation for damages. So the whole word I suggest you move out of this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110499	Thank you very much. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There is. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, please...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110500	But I wouldn't go out, Mr. President, because my remarks are exactly the same as the ladies' representatives of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. I suggest the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110501	Now we're going to make a statement. Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number four. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 73 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 7 against, have been accepted Amendment No. 4 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We're going to Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110502	Amendment No 5 shall be accompanied by a regulation or regulation to which the minister will prescribe the scope of the right to medical and systematic examination referred to in Article 21. The law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110503	I am opening a debate on Amendment 5 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number 5 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 85 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and nothing against votes, accepted amendment number 5 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We're going to the amendments to the parliamentary clubs and the MPs. Amendment number 1 of the MPs club according to the list you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110504	Amendment number one is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110505	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment number two of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110506	Amendment No 2 is not accepted on the grounds that the law calls for the Declaration of the Homeland War. In addition to the expressions of armed aggression, it is unnecessary to further describe the same concept since the declaration clearly absorbs it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110507	Thank you very much. There is no representative of the applicant for the amendment. Please state who is for Amendment number two of the HDZ Representatives Clubs that the government does not accept? The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment did not receive the required majority, voted 6 in favour, 1 in abstention and 74 against. Amendment number 3 of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110508	Amendment No. 3 is not accepted with reason: it is essential to maintain such a syntax or indirect connection with the circumstances of the Homeland War, since it also points to conflict, arms, fear, intimidation and similar circumstances that cause direct action in the Homeland War, under which circumstances sexual violence has been committed, and that is precisely the meaning of the entire law. The law also does not have a grading of easier and difficult forms of sexual violence, analoguely where there is no grading of the amount of cash compensation, but according to the example of international humanitarian law, protection applies to violence committed under the circumstances of a war where there is no place for easy forms. Furthermore, torture and others here proposed form actions are taken into account and contained in the prescribed forms. In paragraph 2, the argument is that, in the case of a crime against humanity or war crime, rape or other forms of sexual violence, comparable weight, or one that constitutes an infringement of the Geneva Convention as an element of the entity of the same crime, it is not necessary, the existence of coercion and threats such as. a case of a common rape crime. As regards sexual violence within the meaning of this law and in the context of war circumstances, what the amendment indicates is the irrelevant nature of the means of coercion. The weight of determining the absence of consent is almost the same as the weight of establishing the proposed existence of fear of violence, coercion, captivity, psychological oppression as the descriptions of the victim's psychological condition or entering the scope of the perpetrator's oppression, abuse of power. However, the lack of consent sums up all of the above, or indicates that sexual activity was not sufficient to fulfill the purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110509	I am opening a debate on Amendment 3 of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Excuse me. I call upon the board president to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110510	Mr. President, thank you very much. In the hope that in the next session of the Parliament, the Rules of Procedure with which the amendment committees are respected will be adopted, and in hopes that the MPs who voted for the amendment on the committee and here will vote for the amendment, I am giving the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110511	Thank you very much. I ask you to declare Amendment 3 to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which the Government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 21 for, 2 abstentions and 60 against. Amendment number 4 of the HDZ Representatives Club respected deputy ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110512	Amendment No 4 shall not be accepted with reasons. The definition has been developed and prescribed in accordance with national criminal rules and international law or Geneva conventions. The characteristics or forms of sexual violence are further described in accordance with the Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, including practically all the elements listed by the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110513	Please, and there is no representative present of the applicant for the amendment. Please state the amendment number four. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Out of nine votes for, no abstentions, 73 against. Amendment number 5. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110514	Amendment number 5 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110515	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number six of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110516	Amendment 6 is not accepted with the reason that the sole victim is clearly in the focus of the law, and the perpetrator's side is not important at all, so it is not necessary to supplement Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110517	There are no applicants present for the amendment. Please make your statement on Amendment Six. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 8 votes for, 2 abstentions and 73 against. Please amend number 7. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110518	Amendment number 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110519	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 8. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110520	Amendment 8 is not accepted with reason to further verify the members of the Committee, given that they are persons of the order of judges, lawyers and the like, as well as respected other experts who are most likely to have passed certain checks in their work, and only as a condition that they are not to be prosecuted, or prosecuted, and that all knowledge that they are subject to in the proceedings must be kept secret.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110521	Thank you very much. There are no applicants of the amendment. We need to make a statement on Amendment 8. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 6 votes for, 1 abstention and 74 against. Amendment number nine. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110522	Amendment 9 shall not be accepted with reasons. In Article 12, the first paragraph did not purposely close a circle of persons who could be elected to the Commission, so given the sensitivity of the subject matter, and the fact that the professions required to participate in the work of the commission may be an additional experience in the protection of human rights can only be an advantage and there is no valid reason for erasing the same. Similarly, in relation to the second paragraph, additional circumstances are prescribed which may be an advantage in the appointment, so there are no mandatory conditions other than working with victims of sexual violence. Experience in criminal cases in procedures related to the Homeland War is still prescribed. A tendency to protect the rights and interests of victims of every form of violence is expressed, as well as an outstanding expertise in their work. It is therefore not appropriate to delete other indents that may only be additional plus in the experience of a potential member of the Committee, especially if it is taken into account that in the Committee other than psychologists and doctors of medicine, lawyers, judges, lawyers who are important to have any experience with this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110523	There is no representative of the applicant for the amendment. Please vote on an amendment that the government does not accept, seat club number nine. Thank you very much. The vote is over. What's the score? Excuse me. I find that the amendment did not receive the required majority, voted 6 for, no abstentions, 77 against. Amendment number 10 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110524	Amendment No 10 is not accepted with the reason that the first detailed article indicates what all goes into the name Homeland War which is here and shortened and which is used further as such in the text of the entire law. In addition to the time and place of initiation, it is stated that the same happened under circumstances, i.e. during the armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the same must not be repeated repeatedly throughout the law wherever victims or sexual violence are mentioned in the same way unnecessarily burdening the law with literary descriptions. All the law uses the name only Homeland War, or sexual violence. The name is, therefore, shortened in Article 2 where indicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110525	Thank you very much. There is no representative of the applicant for the amendment. Please vote on Amendment 10. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 6 votes for, no abstentions, 75 against. Amendment number 11. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110526	Amendment No 11. is not accepted with reasons, the exercise of the right under this law rests on the principle of equality, i.e. social solidarity. The state is not only in the legal, but also in the moral obligation to protect the integrity of its citizens, and if it fails, it is at least the same to compensate them with compensation. Similarly, the rights of claim from that same country may be excluded from persons who, by their actions, have undermined its sovereignty, or have been prosecuted for it. The provision is in line with other applicable regulations on the civilian victims of the Homeland War, into which category these victims enter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110527	Thank you very much. The applicant for the SDSS and Mile Horvat amendments. My colleague Furio Radin needs to turn off your microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110528	Thank you. Madam Deputy Minister, we at the SDSS Club were fully prepared to support this law because we believe it would be part of the satisfaction of victims of suffering. However, in this explanation of your rejection of our amendment, you have limited our ability to do so. We think that the proposed law should have comprehensively resolved the status of all civilian victims, regardless of their nationality or status. We also believe that no one should be treated as a party to which sexual violence was possible in wartime circumstances, and Article 14 of that law, posteriors, legitimateizes such a possibility. We also believe that this amendment of ours should have removed the restriction on the exercise of the right under this law, which excludes certain victims of sexual violence, especially on the basis of undefined provisions such as associates, assistants, etc. We believe that all victims of sexual violence in the Republic of Croatia should be allowed to determine the status of the victim, especially in this type of crime. We also believe that this proposal is in line with the values of the Geneva Convention and international standards, and that it is most important to the principles of constitutional equality of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110529	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 11 SDSS representatives' clubs that the government doesn't accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 18 for, 7 abstentions and 59 against. The last amendment, and it's not the last, it's not. Yeah? Oh, no? Amendment No. 12 HDZ Representatives' Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110530	Amendment No. 12 is not accepted by reason of the law not seeking citizenship of the Republic of Croatia as a necessity at the time of the act of sexual violence. The Croatian Government's amendment further extends the right to EU citizens, so it is not necessary to add and introduce specific categories of victims such as volunteers and humanitarian workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110531	Thank you very much. No amendment applicants, please vote on Amendment No. 12 that the government doesn't accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 5 votes for, no abstentions and 74 against. Amendment No. 13 respected representatives of Vesna Skara-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110532	Amendment No. 13 is not accepted because we believe it is consummated by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110533	Honorable applicant of the amendment, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110534	Your honor, Madam Deputy Minister, you are very wrong. My amendment and amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia are diametrically contrary. With your amendment, you regulated the article to say that cash compensation is not considered a full benefit for all the consequences of sexual violence suffered and I wrote that cash compensation is not considered damages. You have virtually introduced a great ambiguity into a law that will cause a number of problems by your amendment that has become an integral part of the law. I'm asking you if a woman gets a fee under this law and asks for damages which part of that total damage will be included in this money she gets under this law? So that's the problem I'm talking about. I ask you to accept the amendment that it is not damages, not total damages. The whole word causes serious confusion, causing uncertainty. When this whole word comes to court, it will cause great damage to those women who are really looking for damages one day. You've partially disabled them this way. I'm asking the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110535	Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of the honourable representative of the Vesna Škare-Ozbolt which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 20 votes for, 6 abstentions and 62 votes against. Amendment No. 14 Clubs of HDZ Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110536	Amendment No. 14 shall not be accepted, with reasons, except for representation in court proceedings, through the prescribed primary legal assistance. As regards secondary legal aid for representation in court proceedings, the same possibility is referred to by the Law on Free Legal Assistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110537	Thank you very much. No amendment applicants, please vote on Amendment No. 14 Clubs of HDZ Representatives, which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 5 votes for, no abstentions, 77 against. Amendment No. 15 Legislative Committee. Your Honorary Deputy Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110538	Amendment No. 15 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110539	Thank you very much. It became an integral part. Amendment No. 16 of the same board?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110540	Amendment No. 16 is not accepted because it is consummated by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110541	The board president?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110542	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110543	The board president is pulling, thank you very much. We have resolved amendments to the government and representatives of clubs and committees. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 86 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against the law of P.Z. No. 685 in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110544	We continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act for Human Consumption, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.836. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You've received reports. With us is Deputy Minister of Health Marian Cesarik. Introduce yourself, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the reason for the adoption of the legislative proposal is to comply with the EURAT Directive 2013/51/2013 on the establishment of requirements for the protection of the health of the population from radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption. The essential elements of this legislative proposal are, above all, requirements for the protection of the health of the population against radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption. The Minister of Health is hereby authorised to prescribe the parameters of radioactivity in water for human consumption. The Director of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security shall be empowered to authorise the official laboratory for the examination of radioactivity parameters in water for human consumption. The Minister of Health is hereby authorised to adopt an annual monitoring plan or monitoring parameters for radioactive substances in water for human consumption on a proposal from the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110546	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Representatives Kajin-Grubisic. They're gone. They're losing their right to debate. And the name of the SDP representative Vanja Posavac club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110547	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Water Act for Human Consumption. In fact, water intended for human consumption is extremely important for human health, and it is necessary to maintain high quality and water and ensure that the highest safety standards for the protection of workers' health and the population are applied against the danger of ionising radiation. Further harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU rules on water for human consumption is also needed, and we believe that these amendments and additions are justified and necessary. The Law on Water for Human Consumption regulates the health regularity of water for human consumption, the competent law enforcement body and the manner of reporting, the obligations of legal persons, the way and the treatment, reporting when deviating from the parameters, and all in order to protect human health. The legislative proposal extends the scope of the Water Act for Human Consumption by prescribing requirements for the health of the population against radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption, as well as the values of parameters, frequency and methods for monitoring radioactive substances in water for human consumption. At EU level in November 2013, a Council Directive of 22 June 2013 laying down requirements for the protection of the health of the population from radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption was adopted. Member States are obliged to comply with the provisions of the Directive by 28 November 2015 and to inform the European Commission thereof. It is precisely this proposal that defines the concepts contained in that Directive, such as the radioactive substance, the indicative dose, or the value of the parameters. It also extends the power of the health minister to prescribe, by means of a regulation, parameters relating to radioactivity in water for human consumption. This legislative proposal also provides for the authority of the Director of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security to provide specific regulations governing radiological and nuclear security to the official laboratory for the examination of the parameters of radioactivity in water for human consumption. The provisions of the applicable law on the annual monitoring plan, therefore monitoring the parameters in water for human consumption, are also complemented by the powers of the Minister of Health to adopt the annual monitoring plan for radioactive substances in water. On a proposal from the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Safety no later than 60 days before the start of the calendar year, while the role of the coordinator on the implementation of the monitoring plan is assigned to the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security. This law will only transpose certain key provisions of the Directive and authorise the competent minister to comply within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law with the provisions of the Regulation on compliance parameters and methods of water analysis for human consumption with the provisions of this law and to further ensure transposition into the national legislation of the Council Directive. The implementation of this law does not require additional funding, and since the quality of water is indeed extremely important for the population of the SDP club supports the adoption of this law on the matter by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110548	Thank you too, colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here we have heard how important and important water is at all, and of course special attention is worth water for human consumption. And we always remember that every year, 22nd of February, when the International Water Day is. And we remember again and again that it's important, but we also remember those data that almost a quarter of the world's population doesn't have access to healthy proper water. And there's really one inequality I'd say government. And as far as we're concerned, we're on 4th place in Europe for supplies of water. And in that sense, we're kind of envied by both countries and Italy and Spain and many others, and then I think how nice it would be if GDP were at that level. And not to mention the standards, they lead some of these countries 300 liters a day to use water, and we're in the bottom part. Of course, water for human consumption requirements and a legal framework, but also a certain quality. I was taught as a child that water must be colorless, tasteless, and smellless. Today it is a technology at a far higher level and there are both biochemical analyses and everything else and the legal framework is clear. I think so already in 2007. The Food Act, then by that rule and by this 2013 law, is also a proper obligation and those who distribute water and all that that is spoken of by my colleague Posavac, so there is no need to repeat it. And that was in line with that 1998 directive. However, this Directive 2013/51 was adopted in the meantime and therefore requires radiologically simple safety regarding radiological substances in that water. And I think it's all clear what these are obligations, in which way the Director of the State Department of Radiological, Nuclear Security is authorised, and so what are the powers of the minister, is also clearly stated. But as far as this inequality is concerned, I think it's a number of sentences in that sense to say that there are certain very clear imbalances in our homeland. Although this water supply programme clearly states that by 2015, by the end of 2015. 94% of households should be connected to the proper water for human consumption, which is not the case. And there are big differences, big differences. It's the best I know in the Primorje-Goran County water supply and in Istria as far as I know, and let's say in Bjelovarska it's somewhere below 50%. And in this part, local self - government leaders are making immense efforts to ensure, above all, the quality of water supply. It's important to emphasize, quality water supply. And they've put a lot of work into it. We know that in 2010, 2010 that it was, that municipal companies, some 30 projects were projected, 30 projects were projected and I know that so far only realised how much I know Poreč, Osijek and one more and these others are standing. And now it would be a very important question to ask. Because if we want water quality, correct, so the water supply system that needs it is, there are incidents and so on. So we read a short time ago that Ivanov found arsenic, that there were oil in Sibenik, possible incidents, but if he has a quality water supply system he certainly in some way guarantees that quality water can be obtained, which is not the case mainly in the rural areas I talk about often repeat that it simply does not satisfy that drinking water. Not to mention those nitrates in the water that cause anemia in children, etc... This is a very important issue, and in that part a big problem is being shown. So according to this new Construction Act, the new Construction Act, where many of these people have invested in the project of documentation, in the pursuit of work permits, that they will simply lose and that they will not be able and much is being helped to extract funds from these EU funds. And in that part, I would like to say, with that note, that we will, of course, support this law because it is clear that this radiological security, although it is not responsible for what is with those wells on the Molvahs and the others, will be made of them. It was also a question of what was happening, and it requires special attention. But I think that attention should also be paid to the construction of a water supply system that would allow for quality water supply and therefore I think that it should be continued and, of course, it is constantly said that the possibilities for exploiting these funds are great, which is not the case in practice. Here in this sense we will support this bill but with this note that certainly deserves attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110550	Thank you, too. Miss twilight, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Milinkovic, of course, should support your debate and any law that speaks of even better protection of water quality. And it's important because of that now that one sentence that's always... We repeat, water is the source of life, 80% of the water is on the ground, and according to the fact that we are part of that same country, that 90% of the water is in our body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree with you and with regard to maintaining the water supply system, and I wanted to say, I once said that here in the assembly, what we should use both in tourism and in promoting our tourism is a rare country and in Europe but also in a world that can still release water and drink from the pipe and so on in our hotels as well as in our apartments and houses. And of course quality should be looked after. What we are witnessing now, apart from remembering that water is important to us and the benefits of water is that we remember every month and when we get our water bills, every month they are bigger and bigger bills and so it would be good for the local communities and you are one of the leaders and you are familiar with this problem, to use the European funds that are intended for this. It means that this water supply system is really being arranged and the collectors are being installed and that we keep what we have because as oil is important today and oil wars are being fought because of oil, and it's probably going to be and wars are going to be fought because of drinking water.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110552	Thank you. Answer, colleague Milinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for the replica of my colleague twilight. Well, in any case, I think it's necessary to stress that the availability of both water and quality water for human consumption everywhere needs to be stressed and it's really unacceptable, this is, I'm not speaking in world terms. But with us if in the Bjelovar-Belova County almost 50% of households are connected to the public water supply system, that speaks for itself enough. And in this respect, every head of local self-government deserves what makes immense efforts. And I mention this in 2010 when the project documentation was launched and all the documentation needed to go into the realization of it and from which it was realised by some 30 significant projects for these agglomerations, some three were realised these others are very dangerous, with great danger that they would lose because the new Construction Act came about so that they could simply stop being valid. And in that part, of course, this great effort, this effort, the desire to ensure quality drinking water falls into the water. And the possibilities are great, we are constantly told how many opportunities they are from these European funds, so if they are, let's make it easier for these people in a way that they can access it because they have a great interest, a great desire and I think it's an immeasurable wealth to provide quality and drinking water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110554	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Zlatko Tušak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110555	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Clearly, this small law on water for human consumption and harmonisation with the Council of the European Union Directive 2013/51 is only one major contribution to safety that we have healthy and drinking water and clear that any control in terms of water for human consumption is very welcome and in that part we do not have any objections to the law itself and its application, except for one small remark which is more unambiguous. I expected that part of the amendment would be given by the Legislative Committee. It is article 18, so I would ask you, Deputy Minister, to take care of it, because Article 18 itself says to you this way: The Minister of Health will be in charge within 30 days of the date of entry into this law. It does not appear to be in force, so I ask you that when this law will be published in the People's Journal, that it is not technically corrected because it still has to stand on the basis of what it will be, and that is based on... the application of this law. As for other things, we have no objections to the law itself, but I would like to take this opportunity to perhaps say a few sentences just when it comes to water for human consumption. Then we know that somewhere on planet Earth around 70 makes water. Of those 70% present water 97.5% is saltwater, and only 2.5% is sweet water and most of that drinking water we get from glaciers, and we ourselves need to be aware that because of the global warming resulting from the melting of glaciers and we have one situation that we have less and less drinking water and we are practically in danger that this little bit of drinking water will in some way get lost and that those who warn that drinking water could lead to wars, are quite right. Some when they're talking about it, so we're going to be able to solve this issue, and they say we're going through a certain technology from seawater doing sweet water, but then you're right about this when we say "control" when it comes to radioactivity, because we're aware of what happened, of what was at the nuclear power plant in Hiroshima, and the consequences of that are that we have radioactivity in water, but also of some animals in the sea, and it's clearly a danger that we need to take care of. And God forbid that our Krško Nuclear Power Plant so that there is a certain hoax and that virtually in Sava this radioactivity is poured out, radioactive waste and that practically the Sava River will be radioactive, which would have very big consequences for the very city of Zagreb that gets part of the drinking water from the Sava River. Croatia is largely fortunate, natural wealth is abundant in drinking water and treats it as a common good. But I must also warn here that we remember two years ago that in the German Parliament, the Bundestag was voted upon to abolish water as a fundamental human right. Such a decision paves the way for large corporations to buy practically a source of drinking water, leading to certain and dangerous management of drinking water. Croatia, and here they have indicated, is a country that is among 30 countries in the world and somewhere third, some say the fifth country in Europe with supply of drinking water, which is really good that such a wealth of nature has given us. That is why we must take good care of that wealth, even in the area when decisions are made in the matter of drinking water management. We have about 30 concessions with drinking water sources and they are mostly given in a 10 to 30-year concession, and it is especially necessary to indicate that drinking water is also a very large business. And here I have to say that even though they say that water quality, the one that's in taps is somewhere the same with the one that's being sold in bottles, but part of the company is doing the right business because somewhere the same amount of liters of water as the cube is somewhere. Thousands of times the water sold in bottles. And clearly here we have five corporations or five large companies that are doing a great business. There's Agrokor with Jamnica and Jan, Podravka with Studen, Coca Cola, St. Rock and Bistra and Badell in 1862 that sells Uniq. According to some data, I have come to the annual water consumption per capita of 51 liters of mineral water and 3 liters of spring water, and what I particularly want to highlight is when to get that liter of water that is sold and bottled, it is necessary to spend another three liters of water that is of the same quality as that water from the tap, which we should certainly be warning that from this part when the issue of water bottled water is, and as I said, the quality is the same as that of tap water, and we should certainly take care of the water consumption itself. Because somewhere, it's estimated that by 2030, 47% of people will be living in areas where there won't be enough drinking water. And that is why we must keep our treasures in this Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110556	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110557	Thank you. 20 years ago, when I was in Paris and I saw that they didn't have, they couldn't drink tap water, and everybody was using that water out of the bottle. The whole town drank water from a bottle. I thought God, so we'll never have this one. Imagine how lucky we are to be able to release water from the tap is simply to get drunk. And when a dozen, fifteen years ago, this story started with these bottles of plastic and filled with water, I thought it was impossible that anyone in Croatia would be so stupid or that they would be so rich that they would have money to buy water from a bottle in a country that is so happy that it has public water systems that are healthy from which the whole country can be water. However, I was wrong completely wrong. So we're rich enough and smart enough to spend not knowing how much, but I guess it's millions of gallons of water from the bottle right now and we're paying millions and millions of kuna a year in the same, that water is qualitative in the exact same rank as that water that we can drink from the tap. And certainly this comparative advantage that the Republic of Croatia really needs to be protected by all possible measures, which is an opportunity for everyone in Croatia to release water from any tap and drink water knowing that this water is healthy, sanitary and hygienic and epidemiologically correct. What is certainly ahead of Croatia are ways to make better use of water from the drain. There are great resources to actually be used much better in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110558	And Zlatko Tušak, the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110559	Thank you. So, fellow Djurovic, you are fully justified in warning that part because primarily when it comes to, let's understand that it's convenient to have water in the bottles and somewhere when you're on your way to having it next to you, but it's passed in such a way that it becomes normal to drink that water and to spend it. And according to some of these estimates, about 80 litres of bottled water is spent per capita in Croatia, which is a really large amount, and primarily because of the business being done. But when you're warning, then I totally agree with that because that's what we're talking about. Even this big business is done, and when it comes to humanitarian donations, then we have drinking water that we could certainly spend out of the tap and distribute to a particular area. No, we buy it by the shops and then we give it to the Red Cross or to humanitarian organizations such bottled water, that it is distributed to such an area. And clearly, we could have poured this tap water a thousand times more for a cheaper price to supply certain crisis areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110560	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110561	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your esteemed colleague spoke well and now in response to the replica, the same. I wanted to look back maybe on this last water-saving thing of yours. In fact, we still wash the streets in Croatia, watering the gardens with drinking water. It's a surprise I'd say in some parts of the world, because we're kind of throwing it away with drinking water. As for your colleague when he gave you a replica, water consumption in bottles will never be more hygienically correct than the one in the tap. Because depending on the storage of these vials, these vials are very harmful in themselves. And very often when that water in the bottles stands in plastic for a long time in the sun then it is thrown into the fridge, drinking and drinking better if at all there was a colleague that stood up water that would not surely drink out of the glass. When we stand in a glass of water half a glass we throw it away, so we are still in Croatia acting so nonchalantly towards water and we should really protect all the laws of water, water health, water hygiene, and also protect our quantities of drinking water and in some way educate people to have their gardens, that the streets finally have communal companies washing the streets with drinking water.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110562	Zlatko Tušak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110563	Thank you. Well, I fully agree that we should take good care of the water, and we should keep this very quality water, because in God's day, we have a lot of quality water in Croatia, and clearly if we do not take care of it, and what you say is very well to take care of what water the street washes doesn't have to be drinking water and it has to be drinking water, but there is also some other water that can be used for it. But when you say this part about bottled water, then we don't count on it, because the longer that water stands in plastic bottles, it's not healthy. No one controls her after a long stand or in the sun, indoors, etc. It's people drinking it. And I believe that then she's less healthy and unhealthy than the original we get from the tap. That's why we have to take great care of the water.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110564	On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110565	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Minister. I'm sorry, there's no fellow Milinkovic with us, and probably if he were there then he'd say that another one of these madnesss about water in bottles is that that water costs more or at least the same at best as a liter of milk, a liter of water, and more, which is completely incomprehensible to me. But let's go back to this topic now. So water is one of the things that we in Croatia like to brag about that we have a lot, that it is healthy. Although we must be realistic there, remember a little when we negotiated EU membership then some of their analyses showed that it is not all over Croatia, unfortunately such a situation, that citizens do not have access to as clean and as drinking water as we like to think. We even got some delays by 2020 if I am not wrong to repair the situation in some parts of Croatia. However, what is a fact regardless of this is that water is a very important resource and we, of course, support everything that goes in the direction of protection and our water and our resources on the one hand, but also us citizens who drink this water on the other hand. It's an element that shouldn't be ignored in the whole story. This law is primarily about protection against radioactive substances, and in this sense it is an operationally important part of the law to monitor the parameters in water for human consumption and to adopt a monitoring plan for these parameters that must be adopted under this law 2 months before the beginning of the calendar year, so somewhere by the end of the 10th month. This includes the collection of data on the self-control of potential pollutants as well as the assessment of the risk of the occurrence of water pollutants. This seems to be important parts of this law, or this directive. Water safety, you mentioned some of you, water will be and is already the source of both conflicts and wars and water safety is certainly a topic that needs to be seriously discussed and seriously approached. We support everything that goes in the direction of increased water control. There are a whole series of ways that water pollution can come along with radioactive material, groundwater, surface water, springs, treatment plants, and unfortunately in the times in which we live, neither sabotage nor terrorism are excluded, unfortunately in the times in which we live. Not to mention inadequate waste management. There's a text about it in a daily newspaper today. People come to me a lot, you all know that, you've all met with it. They buy agricultural or any land, they're mostly agricultural land, and then who knows who, without any control, without any rules burying a variety of types of waste, there's no guarantee that there's no radioactive waste in that waste and that it doesn't go directly to groundwater and people in glasses and houses and taps and everywhere. It's particularly dangerous radioactivity because no citizen can recognize it. So you can recognize some water pollution yourself. You can see that there has been a change in color, a change in smell, a change in consistency, a change in density, but you have no chance of radioactivity as a citizen, as a consumer to recognize. And in that sense, it's important for the state to jump in. And that's exactly what the state is for, to jump in where none of us, even with the best will, can help themselves. It's a fundamental task of the state. Because when we drink water from the tap, either from the bottle, we assume that water is healthy. And we don't have a chance to check it out ourselves. That's why the state has to do this for us. That is why we support this law and hope that it will indeed then and in application lead to greater security and greater end of peace for all of us who drink this water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110566	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110567	Thank you. I don't agree with you, I would add to this thesis that you presented on the radioactivity of the data in the city where I live a whole series of water pipes is still salon. It's from the time that Salonita Vranjic worked those water pipes and all over the country in the '70s and '80s they built these pipes of freeway pipelines. A good part of them remained, I don't know where all over Croatia but I know in the city where I live that most of the main waterways are salons. You should see what it looks like when that salon connects, say, to the connection. Then he just rips off, that piece of that dust and everything that just goes into that pipeline to join, say, a second pipe onto that salon line. I have not noticed that in Croatia in general there is neither local self-government nor various states at all any concern that Croatian citizens drink water from these saltwater pipes. No matter what this practice takes decades, I think it's one topic, let's say, that opens up in this context as quite current and worth talking about. I also wanted to mention something else when it came to water use at the 178th session The government decided whether it was about awarding a concession to a private concession company at the source of Cetina, this story was spinning, it was 40,000 kunas of one-off fee and the amount of daily drawback about 172 liters was received by a concession fee company of 200 kuna per day. Now, is that the value ratio that we estimate for our water that we give to a private concessionaire who's bottled it for 30 years, I'm not so sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110568	Igor Coleman's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110569	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Very short. I agree with my colleague Đurović in Zagreb, we also have in many cities and lead pipes and the question of what kind of pipes there are and the water is tested somewhere in a processing facility. What comes to us, those miles and miles until it comes to me in a tentacle of home is a big question of what is coming and what is water, and can we really trust it to the end? In this regard, it is important that these laws are passed and that the Ministry of Health is aware of this and that we take care of each other and all our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. We still drink that water. Thank God we haven't had any serious problems with this in Croatia, but this is something to keep working on and worry about all the time and constantly enhance the quality of how they lead themselves and control the quality of that water.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110570	Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110571	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you spoke well in your debate. I just wanted to add how important it is in real life to take care of the environment, so this very environmental protection that we started to worry about, like, we started taking care of one thing and then 15, 20 years started talking about something. So that's where it belongs, when we're talking about water in particular now, and we're protecting the source, the correct use of pesticides that a lot of people are complaining about, and in reality it's a huge source of pollution, and then dumps of radioactive material, no one's going to be around it and it needs to be stored properly. Now we've seen, in the vicinity of Karlovac, some strange 8 bottles, barrels, we still don't know what was inside. I don't think it was sugar or anything. What is most important is the control of water, so also for us in large cities, you remember very well in Zagreb this incident in Vrbani and then the purchase of new apartments should be with you except for these energy certificates and I would say a certificate of water that these tenants will drink in their apartments. I have to admit that I once asked for it when my son was watching the apartment so they looked at the "hello" you're talking about. But I think that would be very important in the future, because really setting up those pipes, you've talked about them and it's important for the quality of the water. When we realize in reality, and we'll understand maybe not us, but one day when it's not going to be as important as it is, and maybe we should be the ones who are going to encourage that protection and water care.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110572	Igor Coleman's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110573	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the twilight, I agree fully with you. Indeed, I also think that the protection of the environment with a special emphasis on waste management is actually the basis of having clean water because everything that is being taken care of is inadequately raining first and going down into the water streams from which we are then draining water. And it can be nuclear waste or radioactive waste, it's not waste from nuclear power plants, so a whole series of activities produce radioactive waste that can go directly into the water. We're not at all able to see it as citizens... So now you can drink and now there can be radioactive water, we have no idea, so we have no way of knowing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She doesn't even have the smell like that, or the color change, anything. There's no way to know. Not to mention waste oils, various substances that are being taken care of inadequately and which then go directly into the water that we drink.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110574	Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110575	Thank you. Comrade Coleman, I agree more or less on everything that is actually being discussed today by all the MPs. You have raised one question that we are actually rich in water, and in fact that water does not come to the entire population, at least not to those water systems that should come under control and where water quality should be controlled, and correctness etc. It is true that here we are, in particular, at the source of Dubrovnik, one of the most beautiful and best springs of Ombla where we had a water line in the 15th century and that the surrounding places of Dubrovnik still today do not have drinking water that would come with a water system. Not to mention the drain, you've already spoken in some replicas about the drain. The coastal drain, not to mention sewerage systems that have not been solved yet, but the largest majority has not been properly solved, especially when we talk about the coastal parts of Croatia, there is no adequately solved sewer system so it goes directly to the sea, endangers both tourism and everything else, endangers health etc. You've had situations where the sewers go across the street in the centers while the children play a dozen meters away. So we need to build a strong structure of a water economy that could indeed be controlled and water quality. We mentioned pipes, it's not a salon, it's asbestos, it's asbestos. So we have asbestos tubes and now we can imagine what the consequences are, that is, what all these possibilities are actually human poisoning. So there's still a lot of work ahead of us, it's going to take a lot of investment in the water economy, but of course it can also be a source for some way of getting and getting and income from that system because that wealth needs to be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110576	Igor Coleman's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110577	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Matušić, I agree with you. The fact is, we often like to boast about having good water and a lot of water, how much this will help us in the future. But what's safe and certainly not the subject of the dispute is that we really need to make systems that both take advantage of and bring water and drain water must make absolutely the best possible on the one hand, rational on the other hand, is that what we lose in the waternets in Croatia is a shame. In Zagreb, for example, these are incredible amounts of water that are being lost by the time they reach the consumer and drain, of course, the same as one way to prevent pollution. As far as I'm concerned, I have no fear for you because you are fortunate to have such an agile mayor that everything is settled and will be settled, but there are plenty of places in Croatia where it is not yet so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110578	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110579	We are going to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act on Human Consumption, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 836. The debate on the final bill is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the Honorable Deputy Minister of Health, Marijan Cesarik, to take note of the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110580	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110581	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 88 votes for, no abstentions and nothing against the law of P.Z.E. No. 836 in the text as proposed by the Government together with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110582	And today we will discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rental and Purchase of Business Space, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 793. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by the Deputy Minister of Justice, Ms Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110583	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The law on the lease and purchase of a business space provides for the establishment and termination of the lease of business space, mutual rights and obligations of the tenant and the tenant, as well as the purchase of a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia or the County, the City of Zagreb, the local and regional self-government units. Amendments and additions to the Law on the purchase of business space are proposed to comply with the Law on management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, and to facilitate the overall arrangement of lease relations, the recording of lease relations and the resulting regular income on this basis. The terms and conditions to be met by the tenant in order to obtain the right to purchase a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, the criteria under which an extremely current user may purchase a space in which he carries out the authorised activity, the procedure in the event of the failure of the tenant to supply the tenant with a tender for the conclusion of a new contract, the treatment of the users who have expired the previously contracted lease, and the continuing fulfilment of the obligations of the contract. In an effort to regulate the leased space relations owned by the Republic of Croatia, we prescribe the obligation to the State Department for State Property Management as a competent authority to offer, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the conclusion of a new lease contract to the tenants whose lease contract had been terminated and they were leased with the authorities of the State Administration, with the former owner or the area where the Republic of Croatia had acquired ownership by applying the Law on property compensation seized during the Yugoslav communist rule, provided that those persons continue to fulfil the obligations under the contract and if the procedure for their emigration is not followed. The difference in the text of the bill is in the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's obligation to comply within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law with the provisions of this law with the rules on the purchase of a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is also stipulated in Article 2 of the final proposal that the State Office for State Property Management is obliged to draw up a list of business premises which are the subject of purchase. No proposal by the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government is accepted to legislate the obligation and time-limit until which the State Office for State Property Management will put into office a business space or other property owned by the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the obligation to dispose of the assets of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed by the Law on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, and the deadlines fall within the implementation of the management plan of that property and depend on the completion of the list of available business premises, which is the condition for the publication of a public tender for the purchase of a business space. The proposal of the Justice Committee on the legal regulation of mandatory lease clauses for the purpose of facilitating the collection of leases or evictions from the business space is not accepted because the content of the offer for the conclusion of the contract and the content of the contract itself determines the borrowers, so that there is no obstacle to the installation of the necessary insurance. In the debate in the Croatian Parliament, it is proposed to allow units of local self-government to correct or adjust the price to market conditions at the time of the conclusion of the newly offered contract. The proposal is not accepted because the minimum initial amount of the lease is prescribed which cannot be less than the lease offered to the current tenant provided that the same activity is continued in the space. With the terms and procedures of the tender being determined in accordance with the decision of the State Office for the Management of State Property, the County Assembly, the City Assembly of Zagreb, or the City or Municipal Council. The initial price for the sale of the business space is determined according to market conditions as provided for in Article 35 of the relevant law. The proposal that business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia be offered for sale to entrepreneurs, and that local self-government units are to be administered until they are recognised by the recognition of investments after which the deduction would be divided into, as well as that the law regulates the units of local self-government to take care of the area until it has been put into office because one of these changes is one of the objectives of being fully and transparently managed by state property and, therefore, from one place, the State Office for the Management of State Property and, therefore, it is also relevant to record and regularly income on this basis. The proposal that the initial price is determined by the activity of a court expert which, otherwise, units of local self-government and state use in the procedures preceding the tender is also not accepted because, on the one hand, the regulation of such obligation would impose additional costs on the budget and the regulation of criteria for establishing the initial price is part of the self-government powers of the units of local and regional self-government as well as the powers of the State Office for State Property Management. Finally, the proposal that the legal protection of the leaders of the local self-government units was not accepted since the protection of the leader, in particular in the way proposed, was not the subject of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110584	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of independent representatives of colleagues Grubisic, Cain is not present as well as a colleague of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt on behalf of her club. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110585	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Deputy Minister. First of all, I would like to ask or see the possibility in connection with Article 1(3) of this amendment and the suggestions that came from the Chamber of Commerce in that part of the definition when offering a new contract unless that space, that business space is not necessary to carry out its activities, the Croatian Chamber of crafts has suggested that this is even clearer and not for the purpose of further renting to another tenant in order to avoid, or to minimise, the possibility of abuse not extending or offering a new contract. I understand what they would like to achieve, too, because in this area, if we talk only about business space as in squares, we will certainly make a mistake. Namely, there are also those in local self-government who, with a particular purpose of a certain business space, have a significant impact if you want from a tourist offer to a life-resistance or maintenance especially in the city centers because, unfortunately, Croatia is also in a position to have banks, savings banks, gold purchases, bookshops and cafes in the cities. And everything else from the city center started to disappear because service and production activities couldn't handle this sector. And so we're on the verge of what America has to do with the city center becoming dead after the end of business hours. Are we going to have enough room for this to allow the city to decide that if the city wants to return to the city’s centre the crafts of various services that are lost or that would enrich the quality of life, complete the tourist offer, or will it be worth one rule of competition, so who offers more will get the space? Sometimes in desire and fear, probably from corruption and from everything we do other damages that exclusively amount of money determines what our cities will be. This is important not only for the cities of the sea, especially for them, but also for the continent where cities and small towns like Čakovec in the center became but indeed the cities of the spirits in the evening because everything that existed was the core of a city, the soul of a city disappeared and went away because the rule of who pays more. And the most money can be paid by bankers, financial services, insurance companies and such a business. Second, the addition in Article 2 which was added after the first reading that when it comes to the sale of business space that the Government will by regulation provide a list of the business premises which are the subject of the purchase. If I'm not mistaken, you said within 30 days of the amendment to the regulation and then the State Office for State Property Management will provide a list of those premises to be sold. I wish that were the case, but I'm going to try to prove to you that such a provision is inconclusive. On 17 December last year, I reiterated, on 17 December last year, I referred a written parliamentary question to the Government and in the context of the State Property Management Strategy and the expectation of the report on its realisation of the issue, how much business space is owned by the Republic of Croatia, and how much is their total surface? How much state-owned business space does the state benefit? So that uses the state. How much of the state-owned business space was rented? And at the end of the day, how many state-owned business spaces aren't in office, dead? To this day I have not received an answer to this question from which I conclude that there is no such data, there is no such data or DUDI is still looking for, as a sum, an analysis of the data to see how many such spaces are, both by number and by square, which are in lease, which are in use of the country which are free. Since these deadlines and expectations are obviously not going to be in 3, or in 6 months if they can't get an answer to the question of the numerous state of it. In addition to the explanation of the situation, I'm going to quote that state property has a 958 business space management. And now you're saying that 74 newly concluded contracts, 815 were found with a monthly lease from a contract from earlier periods and that it was 69 illegal users. Of these 74 newly concluded contracts, 8 of them do not meet the obligation of the loan. Of those 815 contracted 281 does not pay rent or irregularly pay rent, and for these 69 illegal users there is no information as to how many they pay the rent and how much they do not pay. And now these data points to 74 new contracts, 8 not to pay, 815 found, 281 not to pay and 69 illegal users. How can it be 69 illegal users? I don't understand an illegal user. It may be some mistake, is it someone missed something to do or people using a business space without any legal basis. I don't believe it takes the state three years to get rid of such a user who's an illegal user. Are illegal users being sent rental invoices? I singled out this information and mentioned my representative question only in desire, and this is also directly on the State Property Management Strategy and the Law, that without inventory of the state and the list of accurate data, this law will not be able to end up in office and that it is once again only one of the evidence that the law is not enough to make order. And according to existing laws, there should be no 69 illegal users, and under the existing laws there should not be 281 plus 8,289 users who do not pay rent. If, therefore, I have understood the proposed addition of Article 2 and I hope that this law will also encourage the government to finally answer my question to see how many business spaces, in which status Croatia actually has at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110586	Replica, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110587	Thank you. My colleague Lesar, I agree with you, and I want to believe as much as you do that it is possible to find out all the information about both the number of space and the users within a month, but I'm as skeptical as you are. But what you're talking about, the question you've raised is whether it's only the price or the amount of money offered that needs to be dictated by the competition on the lease of business space. In particular, you highlighted the doubts about coastal cities and generally about tourist resorts, etc. And that's where I agree with you. I think that criterion, which unfortunately so far has been the only criterion that has ruined a number of centers. Here's what I'm going to tell you. Just an example of Dubrovnik. Dubrovnik was ruined because it was not allowed to comply with some of the previous provisions that were in force, and they referred to the management of a city that was precisely defined at the nearest centre which types of services and what kind of goods could be sold in certain shops. Unfortunately, we failed to support the legal framework further this kind of subordination, which will happen in these areas, and then unfortunately the price became the only and main criterion for selecting those who entered the lease of these premises. So today we have, the fact is that in the city of Dubrovnik we have over 100 souvenir shops of Chinese goods. Who's making money? The Chinese and the owners of those who take huge margins, and they're ruining a city that once had its own soul, which no longer has a craftsman, are gone, so there's no real content that this city has made with the city, which actually breathed life into that city. In that sense, we think we should consider whether the price... is in what other way to actually come up with that local self-government can somehow influence future content.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110588	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110589	Yes, my colleague, I just mentioned that because of what I noticed, this is what happens in Zagreb. Look at Ilica and some other streets in the center, and if we keep it real, that's what I call the soul of the city, it was the souls of the city. And the competition exclusively with the price we completely destroyed those who had visions of development of the city, development 20, 30, 50 years ahead and knew what they would want, in which direction the city should develop, where there would be a zone of shopping centres, where the souvenir shop, where we will have what it is, is now seen... esteemed especially in terms of tourism development, our history, tradition, culture, craftsmanship, the craftsmanship that has fallen under the pressure of price competition. I also understand local leaders that this is the easiest position only the price because no one will suspect you that you have been bribed, but if we accept it at the state level as a general policy then we will indeed be in a situation of cities to take away that soul, that charm, that essence, and even the specificity that some cities have developed and we will turn it into not just souvenir shops. All the streets in the center we're going to have to call what... street because it's practically that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110590	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110591	My colleague, I think you are rightly surprised that it is possible that someone is standing illegally in a business space whether it is a state property or a local self-government unit and how long it takes the owner, i.e.. a state unit of local self-government to emigrate such a person whether it's legal or physical. Unfortunately, your question, or fortunately, opens up a far wider area and not only does it not only affect this bill but also one regarding the regularity of payment and our judicial system. For example, in England, it is precisely in terms of leases and leases that the court decides in particular which is established for it in two hearings. The first is prepared to settle peacefully the dispute between the tenant and the tenant. The next is if it can be solved, if not until the next one chooses to give evidence that you paid rent and rent and it's over. Unfortunately for us, such litigation has a second degree, somewhere where the higher value of the dispute has accumulated the lease may even go to the Supreme Court until the revision. And I think that when we make changes to the Law on the Procedural Procedures that we have so advanced, we must also take care of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110592	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110593	Dear colleague Ingrid, I'm glad you understood why I asked that question doubt. It simply bothers me that the situation, the litigation process, or the Law on a litigation procedure and its completion, is one. Probably one of the reasons we have and often do so, when the verdict is passed and then they return to the first court for judgment. But at the same time, how in the litigation process so quickly comes to a solution to the decommissioning of debtors' dwellings on loans. This is amazing how Croatian courts are expedient when it comes to deposing someone who has not paid six payments of credit, but who has been evicted from state business space for three years of court proceedings. It's simply unacceptable. I agree with you if there are modalities and there's order. It is in the interest of those who would legally enter those premises, use, pay rent and everything else. And another message that the violation of the law will not be tolerated. But it eats me that the same system, so the same judicial system with the same laws, the same judges in one of them find a way to last long, with the other in a brief procedure. Obviously justice is not the same for everyone, so I am angry at it because it is clearly selectively applicable to laws. So if even the state can't do anything, imagine the helplessness of an ordinary man when someone enters his facility illegally.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110594	On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110595	I would like to thank the esteemed president of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, esteemed representatives of the minister. This is one of those topics with which at least from my experience citizens have relatively often spoken to us asking for help or at least for advice or at least for a meeting with someone or at least something that might give them a little hope and a little bit of a mature solution in the uncertainty they have found themselves in. It's an amazing combination of the circumstances people find themselves in. Some have problems over disputes between the local self-government unit and the state over ownership jurisdiction, so there were recoverys of assets, and there were various inadequate contracts or non-existent contracts or contracts that had long expired. Well, then people have invested in these places, so if this investment is admitted, is it not recognised, is it to be admitted, is it not necessary to admit at all, and then the economic crisis has come to an end. The prices of the rent have become too high for people, their obligations have not been met. Then the question is, what are you going to do, throw them out, then what are you going to have empty space for, say, a man inside for 10, 15, 20 years? And on the other hand, he doesn't pay rent or pay taxes, you can't pay for it. So, a whole series of different circumstances that have arisen here and this law in this sense we consider in HNS a step in the right direction. One of these things is that a creditor must offer the tenant a new contract if he fulfils his obligations with that possibility and it is good that that possibility exists. I agree that it is good that there is a possibility that this can and does not happen if business space is needed by the tenant for his own activity, but I can agree in principle with the remark that fellow Lesar said that perhaps, I do not have a solution to say right away, but perhaps I should specify it a little, because that provision really opens up some kind of again terribly much seems to me to be a space for my own assessment and for an arbitration solution. But I'm saying I have no idea what that's supposed to say. So I'm not saying it's possible, I just think we should keep that in mind. But it's a good thing that provision is in the law. This is out of the question at all that the procuring officer must have the opportunity not to extend the contract because the circumstances have changed in the meantime and changed. Because then it would actually be a question of whether, at all, this creditor owns his own space if he had to offer to everyone without a tender to extend the contract. What is also important and what people often ask us is this possibility of buying space. It's regulated here, and I'm asking you to really get that regulation in place as soon as possible. And the law says that within 30 days on the basis of that DUDI list, contracts will be offered and that's very good. I hope it's wrong for those who doubt the possibility of this actually happening, we'll see, the deadlines are very short. But it would be good to really make it happen, if it really did, because there's a lot of people in those areas that have been living in suspense for a long time, and then it kills both craftsmen and entrepreneurs and small businesses and large companies, especially in times of crisis when that uncertainty is really frustrating and people and what little they might be promoting, what little they might invest, what little they might be free of if it hangs over their heads at all is the question of whether tomorrow they're going to be in their own space for some years and decades then it's really no wonder that they don't even decide to do so, and that uncertainty should be cut. And in that sense this law we HNS support and it is certainly a step in the right direction. What I want to point out before I finish is that in these woods of various situations where people have found themselves, these are really different combinations of elements that have happened in various cases, there are still many situations that this law does not solve. It doesn't say anything bad about this law, but it's certain that this law won't be enough for this whole story of space and property to be broken down to the end and solved. And the second question is the principle question, and that is whether and to what extent the state should be the owner and the renter at all. This is, of course, not a question that this law claims to answer at all, but I must say, in principle, that the state should not be the owner and should not be the renter, or to the least possible extent. As part of this and part of that, we have released the procedure and I hope that soon our bill will appear in which, under certain conditions, the state may and should leave the business premises to the units of local self-government. I mention this in the context of this story that units of local self-government may be better able to define in some situations what priorities are, which are needs, which is how spaces could be brought to their senses. In any case, we support this law, I repeat, we think that it is a step in the right direction and with these very general notes we hope that within 30 days this regulation will be passed and that DUDI's list will finally come up and things will go down and operationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110596	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110597	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's another reading of the law we've been discussing recently and we've accepted with the hope that through this debate some of the facts that have been distributed here for this speaker will be respected. So, often repeated, here in previous discussions, mention units of local self-government and mention property owned or state or local self-government units. What was highlighted in the debate, and not accepted, refers to the lease and purchase of the business space where we suggested to allow units of local self-government corrections, i.e. the adjustment of prices to current conditions. We didn't say that here for no reason, this proposal was rejected, and it seems to me that Mr. Linic was speaking on the subject. So, the circumstances of 5 years ago or I don't know how many years ago when certain contracts were concluded have changed dramatically. We now have a situation, let's look at any city in the Republic of Croatia, here's an example of our River down in the Primorje-Gorski County, where a huge number of business spaces are closed, on the exhibits are sticky tapes for a simple reason because craftsmen and those who were in that area couldn't settle so many rent prices, and there were no models and even this bill doesn't allow price corrections to be made. We also suggested here that you don't limit that deadline to five years. We mentioned 10 years, 5 years, or let units of local self-government, at least in that part of the property they manage and contract to decide on the issue on their own according to the situation on the ground or the needs of the economy. Here we have the amendments, I have not heard that you have touched, which have been sent to Minister Milenić of the Association of Cities where representatives of the local self-government units or cities have precisely decided towards the one we have on the ground all practically identical problems. We have a situation that units of local self-government, cities and municipalities have space in their own or state-owned and that have an innumerable number of associations on their territory and now according to this model that has been introduced since we all consider ourselves to be business spaces to be in absurd situations that associations of citizens who are financed exclusively or mostly from the budget of local self-government units must of these funds that they get from the city or municipality to return again through the rent of that space to the city or municipality. The Association of Cities here accepted all these amendments and practically welcomed the law in the sense that was adopted, but this part also raises the question and the leases of these premises related to the VAT Law where the lease of the premises and the contracts so far must be accounted for, and the VAT so that these prices of the lease of business premises have been collected far, or collected by those 25%, or the cities and municipalities had to give up and reduce the rent of these premises by those 25% in order to allow those craftsmen or tenants from those premises to continue at the same price that they had agreed to pay the previous courses. Here you have refused the proposal to allow units of local self-government to make the current assessment when entering into a contract. In this situation, in this time where we are now that we have to write new contracts in a way that is assessed by a court expert. That is why you rejected the amendment for the reason that the appraiser, i.e. the cost of the appraiser, will again fall on the burden of the budget of the unit of local self-government or state. This simply does not hold water simply for reasons because whenever such a thing is done in cities or municipalities of land assessment or the value of a contract is always negotiated, that part of the costs is paid by the one with which the contract is concluded, therefore not the units of local self-government, although the unit of local self-government previously pays. In that work, we can welcome this law because it was simply an insatiable need. DUUDI we have established it seems to me in 2013, 2015 in that part of the current law still repeats the Agency for the Management of State Property. Here you wrote in the explanation of a sentence that really stings in the eyes when we talk and all the time all the parties, all the political options, we're all talking about some kind of decentralisation, here in that sentence you wrote exactly what all of us are doing on the ground managing state property from one place. I ask you, each and every one of you, after the Agency for State Property Management shut down, founded DUUDI, moved there to new spaces here not far from us under what conditions do these people work and cover all of Croatia? That's what I said here in the Parliament once before. So a large number of people left the AUDI just for a reason because they went to better positions. In DUUDI, there were other referents who had an increase in the number of cases. In order for the absurdity to be greater, the items that, in their time, the local self-government units delivered to the State Property Management Agency were put in place by the DUDI ad act not to say that many of them were also lost. And it's simply a huge problem, which is how it's been formulated to simply manage state property from one place simply impossible quickly, effectively adapt to the existing situation and economy and markets and everything we're talking about here and the unfortunate crisis. Every window, every space empty state means absolutely nothing, neither the unit of local self-government nor the city. And even if it were to be a symbolic one kuna if there were two, three or one person in that space we had already reduced that number of unemployed by one person, and in such a state as no one's keeping, which is collapsing, we had an example in the Dear Military near the City of Rijeka where the roofs were destroyed, it had grown all in trees and grass instead of giving the City of Rijeka to do with that space, to train it, to put it into function that space still glares up empty. And he's had countless such spaces in the Republic of Croatia, and I doubt he'll be able to make a register of all these assets in this way. So we can accept as a club such a bill simply for a reason because the existing law doesn't hold water at all in the notch. Regarding the new laws that have been passed and the new agencies that have been established and the old ones mention the agencies that have been newly established. But there's a folk saying down in the coast, "Give the people a diet, give the mother a diet." And I think in all the thinking when it comes to this very thing, you should think about it that way. It's not true and it's not true, whoever says it or whoever writes in the media that units of local self-government don't know how to manage that property because it's exactly the opposite situation. Wherever cities and municipalities are in Slavonia, Dalmatia, Lica, Gorski kotar or anywhere else they get that space to manage they are very much taking care of that area. Unfortunately, many of them do not have the means to put him into office or seek investors. But he's nothing worse if he's managed by a local self-government unit or a state in this way as he's currently in charge. And this has nothing to do with HDZ policy, SDP, HNS or any party, this has nothing to do with common sense and what's happening on the ground. So, we have a huge wealth in our hands, we have a huge wealth in objects located across the Republic of Croatia that are state-owned, many of them owned by units of local self-government but are in the process of transferring to the Republic of Croatia for what reasons. Many of these facilities that cities and municipalities have contracted for rent are in return of nationalised assets by the South-Communist government. And this raises the question of who will damage these people, or by when and how will these contracts be able to exist when a court ruling to return such an object? We have countless examples that speak about it. So what I was talking about and in my first reading, what I'm talking about and now, it just needs to simplify the whole procedure because in this way all these spaces remain unusable to us. I ask you to certainly look at these amendments that the City Association has sent you, there's no need to read them here, but they're so simple and I think they can be very easy to be acceptable, they're taxing, it's basically a single amendment that's exactly what I was talking about earlier. About the problem of state property, I think that more or less we all know well, we all know what the state of it is but we know that all these gold spaces are worth the most if our man, a young person who doesn't know where he's looking for a job, gets his job in that space, secures his own existence, rents himself, the price that neither the state nor the local self-government units will achieve is so much less important because the budget is full of much more from other sources. What I witness practically every day, and as for the price and our kind of work, let's say. You mentioned it or someone here was saying to protect the leaders of the local self-government unit. The point of all these discussions here was not to allow some unit leader of local self-government to do anything, but what is currently happening is that decisions are not simply made for the reasons of countless investigations of anonymous applications and I don't know what everything does not create a cramp when making a decision, then they are prolonged and simply not being made or delayed, and investors are not the ones waiting. So the price of land or the price of a business space is a one-time issue, and what needs to be considered is what it means for the state, for the units of local self-government, cities, municipalities and what ultimately means, and most importantly, for our citizens, that they can secure their existence and jobs. The price of land or business space when sold is one-time income. If this space goes into some kind of function, then there are far, far greater and constant revenues and in the budget of the units of local self-government and the state budget with which all this can be further developed. Here I think I was, I tried to be simple, clear in that part that we proposed, and more of us through the debate not about clubs and this part that concerns the proposal of the Association of Cities, and specifically about renting such space owned by a unit of local self-government or state associations operating in the space of these units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110598	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110599	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Klaric, you spoke very well in your debate and you touched quite a bit. I would also like to tell you what I would advocate when it comes to the business premises that are in the lease, which are in the hands of the state, so I will now tell the craftsmen in the city of Zagreb, but this also applies to craftsmen throughout Croatia. The craftsmanship is a failure, craftsmen can no longer pay all their taxes they need, and at least they can't pay high rents of business space. They close their shops and disappears a whole series of traditional crafts. There are no more famous clocks in Zagreb, no more famous cobblers. I mean, there's an umbrella, there's known tailors closed, but that's why it opened up down the bakery, there's gold pawnshops, there's silver pawnshops, there's a purchaser. The other part through Ilica, but it's still closed. My opinion is that the craftsmen in the way that you mentioned at least one kuna, and if they had a lease, would lower the lease if they hired one more along with them or two, it would be a big trigger, and much help would be given to the craftsmen. They have to say the most endangered group of especially these old traditional crafts, the most endangered group now in Croatia and are among the poorest people who can no longer end it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110600	Tomislav Klaric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110601	So all this Mrs. twilight you said is here on page 6. So here we proposed, through the debate in the first reading, that when a new contract was concluded, a new price contract applied at that time would be made possible by market conditions. And here, in an explanation of this proposal, they refused for reasons that the price can't be less than the previous lease, please. The price is a matter of some sort of assessment, but the price of the thing and some kind of study or justification of something. If it is justified to keep the crafts in some space, if it is justified that several employees work in that space, then it is justified to make it easier on him in some way, to allow him to remain in that space to work through a different model in these difficult times. It's too short a five-year term, I repeat it to you again because whoever enters such areas as they own cities or municipalities in them should continue to invest in them. And then the question arises and the conclusion of a contract which also recognises the cost of investment in the regulation of such a single space. And then that five-year deadline goes by, and then the question is, who invested in that space? Wait a minute. Why did I invest in it for five years or a space sale or not? It is said here that this law also dilutes the criteria on which such spaces will be able to be sold to a craftsman who is. the criteria are only stated here if he has settled his obligations neatly, there are no other criteria here, except that the Government will further elaborate on this by means of its regulation. So, we're spreading the story, we're listing some of the reasons for something that's actually irrationally common because every job has its own legality and givenness at a certain point that we all have to adapt to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110602	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110603	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd like to sign a simple dictionary like that. We people who have come and have acted in the units of local self-government are witnessing that state property really doesn't have a real owner today. Well done to DUDI, well done to the president, but DUDI is poor today. There are not primarily people who were once professional people who would know how to manage state property today. We, especially in Croatia, are not aware that DUDI doesn't even know what he owns, that he doesn't know what he has and that today they don't have the value of their property because they don't know the exact list of parcels they have at all. So when you talk to an ordinary man, he wonders if it's possible. It's not just during the SDP, it's 20 years since we've had our own country. I don't understand, and I don't know why this government doesn't have the right today to just units of local self-government, because it's the mayors and mayors and mayors who know how to do it. This country, especially this government, has nothing to do with it. And they're simply not able to dispose of the state property that has so much value in billions of kunas, let alone that we've made a list of assets so that we've sold what we don't need, so that in this way we've reduced public debt and deficits, but we're dealing with the sale of highways, we're dealing with the sale of assets that everyone would want alive and what we own we don't know about being masters. And the mayors and mayors know best how to master it just don't get a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110604	Tomislav Klaric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110605	A concrete example, you have an investor looking for 5,000 squares. In these 5,000 squares, 3,000 are owned by the city and 2,000 are owned by the state and DUDI makes a decision. The city attracts investors, we build infrastructure and sells it, it adjusts its price to you inpleternica, I don't know 1 euro, with me 50 euros, but in any case that part of the price and can go into the realisation of its investment as far as the city is concerned right now. As far as DUDI and the state are concerned, you know how much he needs. And I'm going to give you a lot of these examples where you look for land and it's not only this government's fault, and it's not only DUDI's fault, it's AUDI's when it was. So after two, three years, we've been solving a couple of squares, which investor is waiting? What kind of investor is going to wait two, three years? The investor's looking now and now. That's what all the witnesses we've talked about once, negotiated with them, and thank God we've had great experiences about these very things. So you can't wait. It just can't wait and the situation in DUDI is like that. I invite you really to go down to Demetrov, you can't take the elevator because there's a danger that it's going to bolt, go down the stairs and look at the conditions these people are doing and how many there are. And how few are there compared to what was in AUDI. And how they can solve these things that we're prescribing today by the law we're about to pass. And these are things that don't even make the economy grow, that don't create jobs, that don't make investments in this country. It's mostly one of the faults and it's not going to be listened to by persistent people from the field doing the job, physically doing it. Investments run in small areas. Investments, every investment, every job when you add 548 cities and municipalities to make only one investment every year that's 548 investments. If there's no partner in the state, then those investments simply won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110606	On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110607	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support this bill by holding first and foremost that these amendments and additions to the Law on the rental and sale of business space will improve the availability of the ownership of the business space that the state and units of local self-government have. I agree with all these good suggestions that my predecessors have now spoken about and different thoughts standing on the stand, and so I say on behalf of the SDP club that property is primarily binding and that property property, especially business space that stands unused, locked, it is dead capital, it is a pity, whether it is for the state or for units of local self-government. The damage is double first and foremost for the country itself who must pay and maintain a certain direction, communals, and on the other hand it has escaped the profit that can be achieved by giving those spaces in the way that it spoke just before me, counterpart Klaric. However, some replicas and other thoughts that say that this government is being irresponsible to state property and even according to the ownership of local self-government units, it is worth answering and reminding them even though it was not my original intention but to just concentrate on the current changes. However, how did the Law on the Management of Assets of the Republic of Croatia come into play? How did the establishment of the agency happen, or DUDI now? And who had the property in the first place? We had an office that was founded in 2000, until then it had no state property, no one cared about it. In 2001, I found an employee, not an employee, but the then head of the State Property Management Office, walking with a pen and paper, searching for state property and recording it because there was no census until then. And why wasn't it? Not because of laziness, but because of it, we remember how the state property was managed. Let's say the apartments that are owned today are part of it, because the fund owned by the Republic of Croatia, which serves the various officials who come, who are officials, who, by law and by regulations, have the right to use this apartment. What happened then? So certain officials, I'm not going to say at all whose belonging to strangers, because it's too high for every smart man, they bought that apartment. So not apartments where there was a tenant right but moved in as a state official and for 2 years or a year or 6 months bought it out. If you're interested, I'll give you names and last names but you know it better than I do. There's so much, that's how you manage state property. Same with the property of local self-government units. It's known exactly who could have entered such spaces. But let's face it, there are irresponsible units of local self-government, there are many responsible ones. And in 2000, I'm still going to say that a cap and a hand gave state property to be made available and owned by units of local self-government, not only available but owned, because it was a burden for the state to be given to units of local self-government. It takes for schools, it takes for a whole series of activities that serve the citizens. Fair intentions and many units of local self-government have done so. They took those spaces and trained them for the purpose of a more comfortable life for their own citizens, for the purposes of their citizens. But some didn't do it, they sold it. They sold it, like the state didn't know how to sell it. Therefore, we have a responsibility but we have a lot of irresponsible behavior and therefore this very bill. And I believe this is a good way to get exactly from one place, to sort out all that mess and to open up unique criteria just for using that space. I agree with all those and there should be see, I believe that there will be wisdom and ways that our cities will be working from small town to metropolis to centres that once were the focus of civil life, youth, older people where various contents were offered. And what Col. Klaric said, it was they and the speaker before you, those who created cities, so small craftsmen, so we know how the cities came to be, that the gaps are empty today, and there are white papers and ZRP shortcuts on them. It's a kind of roughing up to the Croatians, but it's not gleaning. Closed for redecoration. We know it's about not paying the rent, they have to go outside or there's no turning back. One of Germany's such cities just to keep it safe because some of it's large centers and some things can't change, but it can jump on them, offer them something. That's exactly what my colleagues were talking about. I think we can all agree on that. In fact, one Germany just to preserve old trades that are invaluable, even local self-government units finance, co-finance these old trades because it contributes to the development of tourism. Tourists come to see how pots used to be made, so a whole series of manifestations, which is absolutely invaluable. So not only are these leases if they are owned by units of local self-government symbolic nature but they are even co-financed to maintain these old trades and thus maintain life in these cities, in the heart of cities, but above all for economic interest, for urban tourism which is increasingly, once there was tourism only on the desert, on the coast, today urban tourism in all countries is a significant part of GDP. I therefore believe that this proposal will firstly allow, as the Deputy Minister of the Republic of Croatia has said, a comprehensive arrangement of lease relations for business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, a unit of local self-government, that it is also in line with the Law on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia and that some, perhaps just a brief look at some of the provisions that I consider particularly important, to prescribe first and foremost, as in Article 2 of the employee's duty precisely on the commitments made. So that clearly distinguishes the criteria that have often been the subject of conversation and gossip not only at the state level but even more in the units of local self-government why someone got the space, why someone didn't get the space. At the end of the day, these are one uniform condition that someone knows exactly what kind of game they're going to, whether it's worth it, whether they can. So this corrupt element that was often here at least the subject of I say conversation, of gossiping that these things are being removed, and that's very important for our nation's health. I will repeat once again what I answered in the replica once, so this is a matter of paying for the orderlyness of my obligations. If we see that the data here is only 68 now, it still sounds like a lot of 68 employees who are illegal, so they don't pay or enter without any legal basis in such a space either the local self-government unit or those who are owned by the state, that as much as anyone marvels at that number just a few years ago, that number was drastically, drastically higher. And another thing, we will surely in due time, we have accelerated procedures for efficiency, for the sake of business purity, we have to find this solution that exists in the world, which is currently being solved by certain or sections, we will see one way that such disputes do not last long. In Zadar, for example, one space had just been cleared after 23 years, there was a conflict of ownership between the former one failed company and the city itself. So here's the speed of solving procedures, especially in this matter is the property of saying how many years the case has been in court or if he's not in office is just a burden for the owner. Therefore, both the state and the local self-government units can also be a good master if they are good criteria and if rights and obligations are respected right now. I think this is what we get through this bill, and it significantly improves the current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110608	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110609	counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, we can support the law and the way it is, but it does not solve the essence of the problem. In my debate, I tried to speak a little wider than what this law prescribes with these adjustments that are banal and minimal we will not solve the problem, but it would be good to include what we and the City Association have talked about. However, you mentioned that in 2000 and those years before and that you saw someone who wrote down, how state property is listed. The state property isn't even listed at this point. It's such a mess that's gonna be indecisive at first in years, first because of the unsettled cadastre, the garland, everything you know well about. Secondly, the mess that introduced the government's regulation in due time to make all that up until '91. either outside of the spatial plans of then, outside the building area of automation books in the Republic of Croatia. And then we got situations that the state's attorneys without even looking at the ground about what it was written about half of the cemetery in settlements owned by the Republic of Croatia. That according to what was recorded as a socialist alliance of the working people of the Republic of Croatia, the homes of culture and I do not know what else they have written on the Republic of Croatia. And beyond that, it didn't go anywhere, and all these objects, all these spaces and all these lands are within the units of local self-government in those squares where they are. And in order for the absurd to be larger, local self-government units have brought new spatial plans, these spatial plans have determined the purpose of space but the property is again left regardless of whether everything counts by '91 and what happens later. And then to put that land into operation, to build a cemetery, kindergarten, road or I don't know what else, then you have to look for that land from the Republic of Croatia. And the problem is that this land is being sought and it's waiting to be obtained for two, three years because there's simply no one to solve it or I don't know what kind of paper everything we need, unsettled property-legal relations in monasteries, grants, on the entire field of the Republic of Croatia, and we're getting into a situation where it all stands and falls apart and that young people are leaving us. The goal of all of this is just this job for one person, for two, for three, for five, for ten and thinking about how these young people or the older ones are going to be employed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110610	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110611	What you're talking about has a face and a face. Therefore, it is not necessary to forget the period where the legal basis for recording was invented, for recording and how to obtain state property. But this also says that, then as it is finally a state, it was the government's decision and one and the other, in the meantime after 2000, that the state chose to book its property. Well, the courts didn't, they weren't registered in the garter, there were, there were cases like that. However, it is also happening that the state has registered on private property, owned by units of local self-government. This is the case before a number of courts for whether it is a criminal suit or a claim for establishment of ownership. However, it also stands for the right and obligations of each owner of local self-government units that there was enough time to book his property. After all, we have changed the Law on Land Books many times to extend the deadlines within which citizens were citizens or legal persons were obliged to register their property. It was even threatened, so we changed it later, by the threat of loss of ownership.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110612	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110613	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Ingrid, don't get me wrong, but I'll say you're a very flammable woman like this especially when someone's talking. from this opposite HDZ camp. [[Breaker Zgrebec: A colleague!]] So, I don't know why you feel it immediately as an attack. I speak truly as the leader of a former unit of local self-government and a colleague who comes from a city where I really understand this issue, but at the same time I understand that you understand as a former justice minister as well. But we're at that rank where you as ministers don't see this problem as we come from a source of trouble, a source of information. Don't get so hot for something right now. Please, what's so controversial about that? [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Dear Lucić please don't. Everyone's talking about how they think they should talk.]] I'm talking in this context to be upset, to be simple [[Intruder Zgrebec: It is disputed how you judge how someone exhibits.]] Well, I can say she's on fire. [[So what then, let him be upset!]] Why can't I talk about it? I haven't talked about anything else, and it doesn't matter to me at all, and I don't mean in that context as you think. Therefore, local self-government units need to work very closely with DUDI and DUDI must descend to that level to resolve certain problems as soon as possible. It's been a year and a half in my town, so from the demands for a single space that you've been talking about. Some cities, yes, indeed, may have abused it. But those cities that have a need for it, who don't have the resources in their budget, have the need for that space, and simply can't get to it. And I'll tell you one thing, that the roof has agreed to the burden, the snow, no one keeps it, and the question is, who's going to get hurt by the passerby? At the same time, the city would have mastered the sodom but here it cannot possibly come to the opportunity to become either the owner or any other way to reward DUDI with such a space.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110614	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110615	As a colleague, first of all we have to keep it no matter how we point out the difference of opinion and evaluate some events differently whether they happen now or have occurred in the past some level. After all, you're a longtime representative, and that's what you should do. But there's no room for surprise, but there's a place of disgust. First of all, when you dare tell this authority that he cannot manage state property, and your ignorance, or you attribute ignorance to us because we do not know and will not turn state into private as you did.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110616	Drazen Djurovic, replica. Please! Allow your colleague Djurovic to show the replica, and get out if you need to discuss further. The intruder doesn't understand. One and the other, one and the other. Here's my colleague Đurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110617	Oh, thank you. I wanted to say that concept was the time it was. Time has changed, we can go back constantly but now the state is burdened with this numerous assets and perhaps this concept is now going to reduce corruption and increase transparency but I'm pretty sure it won't actually solve the problem of the burden and unusableness of that property available to the state. It's just not going to work out that way. Maybe it will stop or there won't be any more of the phenomena we've recorded in decades ago, but I just don't think that in this way what you've been saying is that the need to exploit these numerous spaces in small towns, small towns and the like can't be solved right now, so keep living in the center and so on. The only way I believe it is, in fact, to leave it to the local self-government. However you turn, you can keep it like this, you can set the criteria but these spaces won't be put into operation. At least not at that speed and in that way and those needs that actually exist in those environments. And after all, and if we're going to put it all the way to the end, so if that local environment puts it into function in a way that rents it or sells it, but to sell it at some relevant price or to give someone for a kuna who's going to keep some traditional crafts up there is not really a damage to the state. Because at this point in time a good space doesn't have much value, the good part is abandoned. Simply for one of our little craftsmen who is in the County, who is in Požega, who is in Đakova, who is in Vukovar, it is very difficult for him to actually carry out this procedure with DUDI to come and use some 20-square locale in the centre of his place.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110618	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110619	Well, I believe, first of all, I'm giving you credit for seeing for yourself that this bill of law will, above all, remove the insolence and attempts of corruption. It's already a big deal. What you're talking about, he's completely apprehensive about whether it's going to happen or not. But to say in advance that all this property will be managed best by local self-government units, some will, some won't. For example, in Zadar, Zadar's name was Grofovia for many years. Everything was, almost 70, 80%, I don't know exactly the percentage owned or leased or even owned by the same person and that space that was once owned by social enterprises. Therefore, it depends on whether the local self-government unit is responsible or not. But then you can't just leave it to this or that human combination. The criteria must be put in place which will then undermine the malice, and encourage those who really want to put that property in the service of their own citizens and the progress of their own local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110620	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110621	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues with one part of your debate can, of course, agree, but what you are in some way constantly pointing to this side is that we here on this side, or HDZ policies were used by these premises in business and all others. I think we should be a little more realistic so we can look at the situation in the year, or two years of office, and you're using yourself right now. And you're saying that our criticism is that the state will not be a good master. Well, this power has proved to be not the best master. You know, despite all the laws, the state doesn't pay the wages. How's that? That's not good, is it? That's really not good. But what I wanted to say and what I'm going to stand for are craftsmen. Five years is a short term. The rents are sometimes very high. The craftsmen shall not invest in the premises that are in the lease. First they waited for the property to return, the one that was taken away at the time of the Yugoslav meaning, so when that place passed down, they prayed for God to come under the state or under local administration and were still high rents but not to invest, not to be allowed. A young craftsman will inherit his father, where and in what way? And next to it was closed the clock, the old clock in Zagreb most famous, but a gold buy was opened. Is that normal? Well, the state should, now it doesn't matter this power, the future power, encourage the development of craftsmanship. You talked about it yourself. And I think that because of that and our colleague when our Klaric spoke and some of the replicas that go in this direction that we still need to consider what we really want, if we know what we want, from craftsmanship and how we think that craftsmanship is improving the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110622	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110623	Well, I believe we'll do it with this bill. And when I was talking, I wasn't talking to my colleagues about the use, I was talking about the alienation that was set up just for use, that's what I'm talking about. And that was until 2000. I wouldn't have mentioned it at all, if a colleague were telling this authority who was taking everything into account the situation and the accumulated problems that she was irresponsible and that she couldn't manage. Well, we know that your knowledge, we don't need that. Let's go this way and we'll see. This is the first step I believe. And if you don't respect or disable those units of local self-government that want to develop craftsmanship, who want to talk about what you were talking about, me and many others then you see how to encourage and how to make it possible. Is this law to be seen as an obstacle to such conscious units of local self-government?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110624	Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110625	Thank you very much for the discussion. So we are aware of the problem of unregulated ownership of legal relations, ownership relations in relation to the unit of local self-government of the Republic of Croatia, etc. but we are also aware that the achievement of this law is to regulate lease relations and the possibility of buying real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. And this law can't solve the issue of closing all trades, the question of who wants to be educated for trades at all, how many people are even committed to this job, etc. This law can't be solved. What was mentioned at the outset is the question of this recital in Article 3. So I just want to offer an explanation. We have made an exception to the principle provision under which the premises are leased on the basis of a public tender. There is an exception, therefore, on the basis of a public tender, there is no obligation to rent space if it is used by that tenant who meets his obligations properly and is obliged to offer him a contract, so we arrange the obligation to formalise this business relationship, i.e. the lease relationship and regulate that there is an exception if there is a business space needed to carry out the activities of the owner, i.e. the Republic of Croatia. So that's where we've made it possible for someone who stays inside and does jobs to keep it that way, so it's not at risk for a public tender and other offers. There were talks about whether the state actually wanted to be the owner and what the purpose of it was to deal with rent. I would point out Article 33 of that article regulates the conditions for the sale of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. These conditions are clearly set, they in one piece and protect what has been apostrophyd to craftsmen and their heirs. So the goal is that the crafter has its own space, and he has the conditions, that is, the conditions under which any crafter or even his successor can buy that space. Let me just wrap this up for a second. So, we had our intention and I believe that this law will achieve those obligations and those conditions under which the Republic of Croatia or local self-government units have a duty and within which deadlines to regulate existing relations. Of course they're not all arranged, but they'll be all right. We can disagree on whether the state office has administrative and general human capacity to perform it. We started it with that purpose and we're confident it'll do it. So we believe the state office will handle it. We're not interested in a variant like I did in the explanation of the previous one, and I said that there's some sort of an interphase being introduced so that before the lease, before the sale, the premises are left to the local self-government unit. It'll either be leased or sold. This between actually leads to what we talked about before, and that's an unsettled state. We certainly want to avoid that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110626	Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110627	Through the debate we are aware, through the debate we have seen that we are aware of the problems and what can solve this law. Practically, it does not solve very much, i.e. it does not solve these problems at all, all of which we have talked about but which are very important and are related to available in a way that manages this state property. But you didn't explain to me why, with this explanation, you refused this possibility of estimating value by a court expert with an explanation that it would burden someone's budget. If, even in the law, this one can be installed to include the cost of making a contract on the leaser's burden. That's one thing. The other thing is the amendment that put the City Association on this bill. About him, I haven't heard at least an indication why not this possibility to local self-government units that for associations operating in the area of that unit of local self-government, whether they have some kind of health, social, cultural, sports, or what kind of character could not be allowed for local self-government units, I don't know a pensioner's association or a pensioner's branch, which makes it impossible to use this space with a contract but without any payment? Because such associations are funded from the budget anyway. Well, then we get to spilling the hollow into empty space. And then there's the question of this tax act that's been imposed on that price we had paid and the VAT that wasn't before.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110628	Reply to the replica of Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110629	Thank you very much. I really didn't answer this question about finding the price by the witches. In fact, I did not accept this proposal because the government adopted a regulation establishing the value of the property and then, consequently, we have parameters in which we will in a unique way settle the issue of prices. It is not only that it increases costs, but it is the fact that there is now a valid regulation and we have not changed that regulation, in fact it is a basic regulation, a provision for a lease to be negotiated on the basis of market prices. We don't really think anyone in Croatia should want the market price to change. It is marketable and has been identified by the market and we believe that there can be no expert or any third party who should influence the market. As regards the provision of space to local self-government units for certain activities, this is not the subject of the Law on the rental and purchase of business space, but the subject of the Law on Management and the availability of state property. So I can't answer about that right now. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110630	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. My colleagues and colleagues will continue tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. debate on the final proposal of the I.D. Law. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110631	Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the rental and purchase of business space, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 793. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please plead. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes are 75 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 6 against the accepted proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, there is Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Let's get this straight. Amendment number one to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110632	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government proposes this amendment for nomotechnical reasons, so we propose that the transitional and final provisions be above Articles 8 and 9 because such order and content of these provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110633	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state who is for amendment number one. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 77 for, 6 abstentions, nothing against the accepted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is number 1. We're going to Amendment 2 to the Honored Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110634	Thank you very much. According to the previous amendment, we propose to delete the title above Article 10 because we have put it above Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110635	I'm opening a debate on Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 78 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and nothing against Amendment No. 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. We're going to the amendments to the Legislative Committee. Amendment to Article 2, number 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110636	Thank you very much. The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. In fact, Article 2 amended the entire paragraph 1, but the word "bring" was kept because the word was first mentioned in the law. If the word "bring" were replaced by "coordinate" then there would be no legal basis for the government to adopt such a regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110637	Thank you very much. Rescind Amendment 2. Thank you very much. Amendment number 2 of the same committee to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110638	It shall be stated that the amendment to Article 8(9) is to be made, however, of Article 8(9) does not apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110639	Thank you very much. That amendment is also withdrawing. Thank you very much. We are going to the amendment of MPs, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110640	Thank you very much. The Government does not accept the amendment in question. In this provision, we regulated four variants when the state office offers the conclusion of a lease contract to the tenant and in all four variants the essential conditions are that the lease contract previously existed and that the person still fulfils the obligations of the contract. The amendment applies to persons who did not have a lease agreement, who do not comply with their obligation, and it is still possible that a procedure for the handover of property is launched against them, and in such a situation, we believe that the public tender is a much better way to go. Interventions, i.e. requests for compensation for funds invested in space, can be settled on a regular legal basis under the Law on Mandatory Relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110641	Thank you very much. Amendment holder, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110642	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is, in principle, that this law is about improving relations, unfair relations that occurred after 90 years of users of business space and state at all levels and in local self-government and ownership of the state itself. And this amendment of mine solves only one segment of those problems. And I'm sorry that in all of this law that improves it has not really solved many other problems related to these relations and which failed to solve people their existential problems, one of the problems is this. And that is why I have proposed this amendment, although another five, six amendments to the same subject and different relationships could be proposed, and therefore I would ask that we make a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-20-0.u110643	Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of the respected representative Boris Blazekovic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 15 for, 2 abstentions, 69 against. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 81 votes for, 6 abstentions and nothing against the passed law, P.Z.E.BR.793 in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted. Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues. We haven't started the session yet, and our hands are in the air. Honorable representative Mladen Novak.
