ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111453	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We'll start work. We will discuss today - A report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2014; the Advocate General for Gender Equality submitted the report on the basis of Article 22. Gender equality laws. You've received the material. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Advocate for Gender Equality Višnja Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111454	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs before you are present last year's report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality. During 2014, the Ombudsman’s institution had rules on the implementation of the provisions of organic law, the parent law for the institution of the Law on Gender Equality, other rules relating to gender equality, followed national and European judicial practices related to discrimination on the basis of its conduct, discrimination on the basis of sex, sexual orientation, marital, family status, motherhood, sexual orientation, gender identity. As part of our work, there were 2588 cases, representing an increase of more than 21% compared to 2013. The trend of increasing individual complaints against citizens and citizens by 11%, which remain mainly related to sexual discrimination, is most complained about by women and in 73% of the cases. Most complaints of course refer to social security, social and labour rights, which makes a significant part of over 69%. I will remind you in 2013 that percentage was less by 8 statistical points. According to the forms of discrimination, there were over 87% of cases of direct discrimination, 3 cases of indirect discrimination, while 11.7% of cases found no forms of discrimination and are working on a decline in previous years. Based on discrimination, there were almost 80% gender-based cases of sexual orientation of less than 5% of the cases, a slight increase in marital and family status over 3%, a gender identity of slightly less than 1%. We have addressed over 570 written recommendations, 115 warnings, 37 proposals, and initiated the launch of a sexual harassment report related to the social network on the facebook, and initiated two criminal charges related to the promotion of violence and hatred against persons of same-sex orientation on the facebook. We have given an initiative to amend an internal regulation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the rights of pregnant women. Citizens and citizens tend to complain about the conduct of a body with public authority in 34% of cases, the work of state bodies in 31%, other legal persons 12%, natural persons 11% and the media in 7% of cases. On the other hand, we have found that in a very high percentage, as many as 94% of cases fully respect warnings, recommendations and proposals sent to bodies of public authority, state bodies, natural persons acting on complaints received in cases where discrimination is found. In 4% of our recommendations and warnings are partially respected, and less in 2% of cases are not respected. 7 independent research, 2 in the field of work and working conditions under the European project "Glass Labyrinth", 2 in the area of social security related to difficulties in meeting and socialising a child with a parent who does not have a child. Executive proceedings before the courts to hand over the child to the parent with whom he will live, one in the field of education and science related to the activities of the student lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, one research related to public information and the media and one in the field of reproductive rights. Two Memorandums of Cooperation were implemented, a memorandum with the Justice Police Academy of the Ministry of Interior and a Memorandum of Cooperation of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb where seven students and students were perfected in our institution last year. The activities that last year marked the work of the Ombudsman institution in all areas that we are dealing with, which is work, employment, family, media area, political participation, education are the most important thing that I have said from so far statistics in the field of work, employment, discrimination issues of pregnant women, women based on labour market motherhood and sexual harassment in working relationships. Women tend to complain in 70% of cases about a fixed-term contract, discrimination based on pregnancy and motherhood, which is rising compared to 2013, family status, unequal wages, sexual harassment at work and the like. This does not surprise us with regard to the long-term trends related to the unemployment of women on the labour market, our women are over 54% already unemployed at the Croatian Employment Service, accounting for only 45% of the working population and 58% of the working inactive population. Still born-born segregation on the labour market, the increase in the number of employees based on a fixed-term employment contract, the increasing accessibility or accessibility of work contracts indefinitely refers especially to women, a hard-core pay gap ranging between 10% and 11% year-on-year. On the other hand, men complain about the discriminatory practice of employers in professions such as kindergarten breeders, cashier jobs, cleaning jobs that are expected to mean women's labour. There are still insufficient measures in Croatia to bring private and business obligations into line. We are witnessing insufficient public services, their uncoordinated working hours, for employed citizens and citizens, also birth permits used by fathers, used only 0.4% last year, parental permits are used by fathers less than 5% following which one of the measures should be more effective in encouraging fathers to a more active role in raising and fast for children. As part of the implementation of the European project "Glass Labyrinth" launched in 2013 will end this year in the 10th month, we point to the need for balanced representation of both genders in management structures. Two surveys were conducted on samples of 500 and 100 companies in the Republic of Croatia. The results we have obtained are indeed consistent with the analyses and the situation that exists on the labour market and show us that women are sub-represented in management structures which coincide with their sub-representation on the labour market. Women later enter our management structures, but they leave jobs like this before, which coincides with the late entry of women into the labour market as well as early exits. Despite the fact that the share of highly educated women in the labour market is greater than the share of men in our management societies has also been a large number of women highly educated compared to men, however, such a proportionate situation has not been in management structures. We're still talking about vice-proportional representation less than 24%. For this reason, we have spoken publicly about these topics, and in our conversation with the resolution authorities, we have pointed to insufficient provisions concerning the protection of workers and workers, the powers of inspection work, the arbitrary treatment of employers, the resorting to infringements of anti-discrimination guarantees. Furthermore, complaints in the field of provision and access to services such as complaints relating to the granting of loans to pregnant women are increasingly being received, mothers benefiting from maternity leave completely excluded by banks from credit relations or unfairly treated as a credit risk group. The number of complaints of domestic violence follows immediately after the field of work and employment. Women are still victims of domestic violence with a share greater than 70%. There are still a number of complaints from citizens and citizens regarding the non-recognition of certain forms of domestic violence primarily mental and physical, economical by competent institutions. As in the previous reporting period, there has been a decline in the crimes of domestic violence by about 10%, while the decline of domestic violence has been recorded, there has been an increase in the trend of the number of criminal acts with elements of domestic violence. From our experience on matters of domestic violence, especially if it comes to harassment and sexual harassment at the workplace, we are aware of the fact that still, to some extent, these violent and criminal acts of violence are tolerated by victims, not reported for fear of their own existence. We are still witnessing that perhaps the most effective protective measure of distance from the apartment or house is very rarely pronounced. With regard to domestic violence, we recommend stepping up awareness-raising measures both in the police, the state's attorney's office, the judiciary, the social services, the adverse consequences of violent behavior on victims of violence, then removing the practice of double arrests and convictions to perpetrators and victims of violence, but also ensuring that protection measures are effective in order to ensure the safety of the victim. We also testify that for the implementation of measures on permanent and temporary housing of victims of domestic violence in accordance with the available housing areas of the National Strategy on protection against domestic violence, there was no indication that assumptions began to be made for the systematic and permanent resolution of the need to deal with victims of domestic violence. Under the current legislative framework of the Law on areas of special state care, there is no possibility of housing care for victims of domestic violence especially those who seek it outside the area of special state care. Sexual stereotypes in the field of parental care continue to be the most common reason for complaining of fathers, mothers point to the sensibility of individual professionals related to the family violence they are exposed to. It should be highlighted as an encouraging environment of good co-operation with the police and co-operation of individual centres for social care that generally respect our recommendations and seek to improve their work. We took steps to encourage judicial authorities to sanction homophobic hate speech, based on sexual orientation, and to encourage violence. We are still convinced that discrimination against sexual orientation is particularly on the labour market and access to services and goods spread, although its visibility is relatively weak. Such an assessment is based on the enquiries that we receive in our office by complaints from citizens we receive, but also through communication with LGBT associations and with their legal teams. And last year we actively participated in the creation of normative frameworks through which birth-disphoric persons could resolve their legal and medical status. There is still no system of care and gender-disphoric people in a way that is aimed at a quick and effective solution to the individual's problem, individuals who apply for a change in their identity. Based on the treatment of complaints by autonomously responding to media content, we still cannot say that there has been a positive shift in the way in which women are shown mainly in the media, and still worrying about the number of media that do not give up on women as objects of emphasis on its appearance and physical attributes. The presidential campaign showed a minorization of the harmfulness of sexism in media content, public speech, we witnessed a series of sex stereotypes and sexisms in the statements of individuals and individuals and in the media presentation. In the field of education, we advocate the integration of civic education and education as a mandatory teaching course in primary and secondary schools because in this way, the content that... human rights in the education system would be introduced in a more quality way, more thoroughly compared to the current interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary approach. Women are still a sub-representation in the field of political participation, whether it is about their inclusion in the lists of candidates, whether it is about public representation of the party or the final election results. Promoting gender equality principle in the field of political participation after 6 presidential elections were held where 42 men and 7 women were run by the first Croatian president. The fact that a woman elected as president of the Republic of Croatia should help break the traditional concept of positions of power as a male area and encourage greater involvement of women in politics. Further progress has been seen to introduce gender balance in armed conflicts, police, the state security system. The area that has been treated exclusively as men so far is that women seem to be increasingly involved in activities to prevent armed conflicts, but also in building peace. The third year in a row includes particularly sensitive groups that are at risk of multiple discrimination, are at greater risk of violence, poverty, economic dependence on the partner, family subject to gender stereotypes, prejudices or Stigmatisation. It's about rural women, women with disabilities, Roma women, human trafficking, so what the report sees very closely for each of these risk groups. Due to complaints from citizens regarding the exercise of the right to abortion and to the appeal of conscience, we conducted an investigation into the availability of abortions and it can be concluded that accessibility is satisfactory in relation to the period from 10 years ago. The availability problems that existed in most health institutions have been partially eliminated. The complaints also referred to births, related to birth treatment, in which we advocate actions that would not endanger their dignity by providing them with complete and timely information, respecting their personality by acting in accordance with the rules of the profession and the relevant regulations. Through legislative initiatives, we have proposed resolving legal problems, health services that meet a gender-disphoric person, regulating the rights of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, equating the status of extramarital, married communities particularly in financial rights, pointing to special protection of pregnant women, as well as regulation of the field of equal participation of men and women in armed conflicts. By participating in the creation of a legislative framework on the rights of victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, we keep the law necessary to contribute to personal, social security, social rehabilitation of victims and their material satisfaction. It's final. The Ombudsman's institution was actively involved in legislative initiatives, opinions on legislative solutions. We have made a proactive approach with the authorities of state, public and local authorities. We have collaborated with about 59 civil society organisations, international, regional organisations and all to respect the principle of gender equality as the constitutional values of the Republic of Croatia. In the 2014 work report in question, we gave a total of 64 recommendations, which is 10 compared to the previous reporting period. I thank you for your attention, and I'm happy to answer all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111455	Thank you. We move on to replicas, first respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111456	I am particularly pleased that you spoke about the inconsistency of the private and business lives of men and women, and given the Constitutional Court's decision that only a few more years of men and women will have to do the same with the same age in retirement. So, the Constitutional Court has given us enough time, especially to the legislator, so we as legislators have the opportunity to change laws that would lead to the same status of men and women both in business and in private life. The dramatic data is where you say that men use maternity leave in 5% of the time. Then what would we have to do? Of course, women’s wages are less and most often a woman’s, and that is one of the reasons why she uses still after mandatory leave and later maternity leave rather than men. Therefore, one measure of amending the law that whether a father or mother use that maternity leave to make that compensation equal, at the same height, that is what we should definitely change. The same way when you talk about managing structures as a woman has little, later on they come, they leave early. For a start as we did in the election of MPs in Parliament that the lists must be such that they have at least 40% of the sub-represented sex, it should also start at least with state firms that in the management structures of those companies owned by the state we have at least 40% of the sub-represented sex so that, in a later period, we can ask private companies to do so. After all, many countries in Western Europe have decided to do so, and it has proved that efficiency and such state-owned enterprises are much greater and much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111457	Second replica, dear Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111458	So I think these stereotypes are kind of changing. This year we also got the President of the Republic. In the DORH city of Zagreb, 90% are women. In courts, over 60% are women. In DORH, the Republic of Croatia 66% or two-thirds are women. The President of the Constitutional Court is a woman, attorneys, all women. Right in politics, I agree with my colleague, the situation is different in companies as well. But there's the president of the Chamber of Commerce who's also a woman. What am I saying? If the situation just changed, it was fixed, the stereotype was gone or at least gone as long as it was. Soon we will get a woman with a general rank, or we have already, thank God, too late but we have won and we will be able to no longer have discrimination in Croatia. Women are dominant in health care, women are dominant in the media. Women are also dominantly represented in the education system. It is true, what we have heard from Roma women, etc., there are risk groups. But I think that when it comes to pensions, it's what made me most of all call me, that women have to go a little sooner, if they want to, to retire from men. And that's what we should insist on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111459	Reply to the replica esteemed Višnja Ljubičić. ... This way, please turn on the microphone and respond to the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111460	I have to react to this. It is often mentioned in the public that women today have a majority in the education system, the social system, the justice system, but when we really go to middle management, so in the high management structure of the higher-level education system we have men. If we speak in health care, today it is hard to see that women are principals or heads of certain institutions, departments, etc. We have a problem in surgery that women can't get into the field of surgery because it's thought to be reserved for men only. They're having a hard time getting specials even in these areas. It's interesting that in recent years since the four attorneys were appointed to speak up more and more often, we've also had women attorneys. 20 years when they were men, while they had their deputies, that's not what they were talking about. So the issue of gender stereotypes, the issue of gender imbalances, especially if we go by vertical control structures, really exists. And the glass ceiling exists, we have found through our research through 500 Croatian companies listed in the labour market that it is really visible. And that's true, is the pattern we chose corresponds to the structure that exists today on the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111461	Third replica, Honorable Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111462	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You are in your report or better said in Appendix No. The 7th Honored Attorney General describes one comment under number 0601 of the '14s. in the year -7 you commented on the online portal of abortion clinics and in your explanation you said literally this: The health of women and legally guaranteed the right to freedom of birth are fully subject to the right to the life of a child who, according to religious dogma, starts from the moment of fertilisation of the egg cell. Dogma is a religious truth that the church officially defines as a divine revelation. For you it's a conception of religious dogma, I don't understand it. Tell us when life begins for you, which according to you is conception. On the other hand, you object to an association that wants to provide as much information as possible to women before deciding on abortion. What's wrong with that if they beg them in front of such institutions, whom they insult. And you are actually insulting, i.e. you have also violated the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination Article 1, but also the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 40, which tells you that freedom of conscience and religion and free public respect for faith or other beliefs are guaranteed. I just want to point out that we don't live in the Enver Hodge regime and that we're not an atheistic country. After the official 2011 census, 86.7% of Catholics, 4.4% Orthodox believers and 1.7% Muslim believers were officially in the Republic of Croatia. I think that these comments, or these reactions, have hurt the vast majority of such people, and it would be good to, instead of comments or recommendations made by the Ministry of Administration and Arsen Bauk to come along to such a prayer meeting, not out of your conviction, ail out of curiosity to make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111463	Answer to the replica of Advocate Višnja Ljubičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111464	So I'm going to read what it says is about the portal of the abortion clinic created by the Association of Vigellaras. On the Internet pages that can be obtained via Google when you are looking for any right to abortion, you get a portal that tells you about the facts that we consider to be world-famous character and that they do not correspond to the legal truth, legal facts. ... Legally, you'll see here what legal facts it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So here I'm going to mention only some of the things that are listed, which can lead to the delusions of the people who are looking for the right information, so legal information. The question arises whether we should legalize this cruel crime. The argument that claims to justify abortion in order to ensure the quality of life is not caritative but criminal. Leaving the poor women of the third world to kill their own children is not an example of humanitarianism but of promoting genocide. Can the state legislate an abortion? The state has no right to legalize an abortion. If the state maims an abortion, she legalizes murder. A law allowing the abortion of citizens should be considered legally invalid. So this is about facts that are not legally justified. The law allowing the abortion has been in force in Croatia since '52. A year. The '90s laws allow for the right to appeal to conscience. This kind of fact that has been promoted here cannot be found even in the contents of religious organizations that have special status and special rights that can speak of the science of the church and their world-rents unlike the associations that are represented here, they have no right to do so because they are registered as associations and subject to other rights that do not comply with those rights which have religious communities and signed international agreements with religious communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111465	Thank you very much. That's where you're gonna stop. You have the right after every debate as a proposer to come forward for 5 minutes, and in here in response to the replica only 2 minutes. Thank you. The fourth replica, respected Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111466	Your Honor, Mr. President. Madam Attorney-General, so you've brought out a series of structures here on the basis of which you state your views. I want to draw your attention that some structures are not right for you, they're actually completely wrong and you need to get better informed in the country at all about this problem you're covering so you can behave on that duty. Let's just say you mentioned that women can't make it to the head of surgery. That's not true. That's not 0%. I'm the headmaster of the surgery specializing in 5-6 specializations, 16 candidates, none of which are women. You can't win a woman as a resident, let alone a boss. That's true, don't do what doesn't stand to be said. But I answered for some other stuff. You mentioned raped women in the Homeland War. I'm asking you, Madam Attorney, what you did, I don't think you've raised your voice enough for this issue or about this problem, and I'm asking you what you're going to do now that last week, Mr. Pupovac, in a debate about raped women in the Homeland War, he's relatabled that notion. It's a terrible thing that he's creating a structure that one woman will misreport rape and that these possible two witnesses will be false witnesses. So he's in advance accusing and preventing the victim from reporting a rapist. Well, that's terrible in this country. If he'd said that in the American Congress, we'd have come figuratively to tell the police in Congress, arrested him, never let him out of prison, and you didn't say a word about it. What do you think you're doing in this country against those people who relativize rape, who at least says it's not said, but the force is someone in Lori, so these should also be seen in that context. You haven't said enough about it, and you're not talking about the right things, but you're saying that women can't get surgery, and women in surgery won't because it's harder work. He wants to go to dermatology. There's 70 in one place.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111467	The reply to the replica, Attorney General Višnja Ljubičić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111468	As regards my participation in this Proposal for the Law on Sexual Victims in the Homeland War, I must tell you that the complete institution participated in the working group with its proposals and maintained regular contacts with female civil society organisations and encouraged certain positive changes that were accepted by the restoring body.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111469	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labourists will speak to the esteemed Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111470	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the attorney-in-law with the co-worker. We always kind of go wrong when we talk about the points that we have on the agenda, but good. I will return to the 2014 Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality. The report, which consists of 244 pages of a special contribution, which refers to and provides descriptions of cases from different fields, work and employment, domestic violence, rape, parental care, reproductive health, as well as an analysis of the implementation of active employment policy measures, as well as an analysis of the implementation of national gender equality policy measures in which the Ombudsman makes 64 recommendations. Yesterday we had a report on the work of the Ombudsman, so in my debate, I stressed how important it is for every law firm in the public office to be recognizable because it is its purpose that citizens know who to address, what to expect from that office and how to address it. And I think that the Attorney General's Office for Gender Equality fully justified its purpose, because anyone who wants to get a little bit of information on the pages of the Attorney's Office really has a lot of information. And what I particularly want to stress is precisely the data and statistics that everyone who deals with gender equality has been using especially for research that the Attorney's Office has been working on since the current Ombudsman is in place. So, 7 quality research not commissioned by external co-workers, but actually done by those 11 employees, and the Office of the Advocates for Gender Equality has the least employees of all the defense offices, indicates that the Office of the Advocates for Gender Equality really has a vision of what and how it wants and that in this vision it agrees with the complete picture in the best possible way and that we must be very grateful. The D.A. mentioned a lot of statistics. I'm not going to repeat the statistics, but I'd like to point out a few things that happen in the positive part. So, the fact is that as far as domestic violence is concerned, that is to say, the processing of this violence whether or not we have committed a serious crime, we have made a huge step and we have made a first step in that police, police activity. So, the police have been extremely well sensitized in all of this, and there's a great deal of credit for this right here at the Attorney General's Office who's here through the Police Academy, where police officers and police officers have been educated, so they're going out on the ground in a certain reported case of domestic violence. Where we have a problem with misunderstanding is still the judiciary. We have unequal, unequal judgments, we have major problems and the fact that judicial authorities still don't recognize domestic violence in the right, right way. And yesterday, too, there were speeches on the Committee on Gender Equality where here it is necessary that all of us who can do something is to appeal to the Judicial Academy, to adopt educational programmes, to introduce or outside the classroom, and to introduce education on the matter of resolving domestic violence because it is extremely important. This part that the law students were also in the Attorney General's Office seems to me that if I'm not mistaken in the report I'm reading is a good example of cooperation and a good example of how to learn and definitely the one who performs practice at the Gender Equality Office one tomorrow as a judge will have a completely different vision. Here in the public debate is the new Law on protection against domestic violence, so we can all participate in its changes. It is also commendable that the Ombudsman’s Office for Gender Equality is giving really great attention to rural areas, because we are all talking about how much easier it is, therefore, in cities to come to some of their rights. However, the issue of rural areas remains open at all times, where a large part of women, especially women, cannot exercise any of their rights, come up with information and that the Attorney's Office is indeed doing a good thing because, therefore, on the ground in all the counties in co-operation, therefore with the County Committee on Gender Equality, which is also unfortunately found not to have a clear vision and strategy of action, and the government body, which is coordinating them in doing so does not successfully direct them, and then, unfortunately, we come to a situation where we have the county committees for gender equality which are static, which do not carry out their functions, which do not work, and it would be of great importance that we join both the government's office and the parliamentary board and the Attorney's Office and the county commissions, which can then do quality work, especially in those rural areas where we really have to recognise the level of protection that we have certain groups. When we speak, and we always argue here, so because of the right to abortion and to call for conscience, we read in the report the opinion or attitude of the Advocate's Office towards the association that helps women give up abortions, and today here's a colleague already mentioned that part in the replica. We must understand that we have come at some point in a stalemate where, by law, a woman has the right to abortion, and under some other law, a doctor has the right to appeal to a conscience. And then we'll ask who's stronger and who has greater rights. The fact is that in Croatia we must be as an open society and aware that everyone who respects the laws can do what he thinks is best for him at that time and regardless of the opposition of the associations we come into a situation that all those who disagree with these associations are saying something wrong and saying something that is not good, which is not true. So, we have to be a society where everyone has the right to say what they want to say, and the Attorney's Office is here right now to warn about those things that don't comply with the laws. And I think in this report, as far as this association is concerned, that's exactly what's being pointed out by letting everyone else aside because this is how it turns out that the whole society becomes the hostage of a small group of people who impose some attitudes, and everything else falls into the water. Everyone has the right, no one should be the victim of anyone but also small groups of individuals who feel that they need to impose something on them have the right to act in accordance with their statutes and with their therefore those activities they have registered for but do not have the right to ask the rest of the society to say that what they write on their own pages and the only thing they think is good. That's why we're different and there's a difference to be respected. The report also mentioned the work of an attorney for the protection of women victims of the Homeland War, so sexual abuse in the Homeland War. What did the D.A.'s office do today? I'd just add what we all did? Do any of us in Croatia have the right to invoke anyone that something has not been done in these 20 and so many years regarding women victims of war? And it's unserious of each one of us who calls another what he is and how much he's made for these women. For 20 and so many years, we've been waiting for the law we've passed, and now someone finds themselves calling someone who's made it. No one did anything, and now we realize for the first time that we were wrong. Let's admit we were wrong, admit we were late, and let's just say we finally did something that we should have done a long, long time ago, and that's why we're all guilty, not the office or the individual. In conclusion, I would like to express my gratitude to the attorney for this information and mention one very good thing. Therefore, almost 95% of state bodies respect the warnings and recommendations issued by the Advocate's Office. So it's really one piece of information that encourages because the Attorney General's Office, through such high percentages, justifies its purpose. So, the fact is that the office should, as such, have the Advocate's Office professionally, transparently and reasonedly continued to point to failures in the work of the competent authorities and their discriminatory practice and such a high percentage that is adopted only shows that the Office of the Advocate's Office for Gender Equality is important and shows that the office is ready at all times to remove the bad practices so far. As a lawyer, I think the easiest thing to do is to keep quiet, do your job in silence, and then no one calls you for anything, but she's the attorney for gender equality with her courage and maximum reference to everything that's going on from daily media to facebooks, to press, etc. He courageously comes forward with his statements, courageously warning of what is wrong with gender equality. She's often called for that. I say often because of this he gets on his nose, but that is why this is more worth such a report and it is worth having such an attorney's office that we know that especially whoever is head of that office is willing to take responsibility, which is a responsibility, although somewhere I have to defend it, and I hope that the attorney's office will continue with the same work, the same good results, and here's the Croatian Labour Club will support your report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111471	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Dear Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Tirelli, you were talking about domestic violence, we heard the percentage of women being exposed and you were talking about positive shifts. I would say every honor and education and understanding of the police and everything else but the problem remains, the problem is great in what we heard from the attorney's report there is no systematic housing, there is no, because the Ministry of Regional Development is responsible only for the area of special state care. And in that part, I agree with you that women in rural areas are in a very difficult position, so in terms of care, housing simply because the problem remains unsecured. It's a small environment, and if that's not how you approach it, but it's not the only problem. The problem is therefore simply economic, existential uncertainty, one insufferable state, and in that part I would like to make the observation that there was not enough loudness about these problems that women are in the economic situation not only in cities, but also in villages. A number of family farms have failed, the existence is indeed under difficult circumstances, and in this part it also took a little more to raise the voice, and this housing management is, of course, one of the major problems. And we had in my county that Safe House project, which is not unfortunately recognized because in the small environments when such a thing happens, it's not easy to hide because everyone knows everything and every step is visible everywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111473	The answer to the replica of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111474	Thank you, Vice President. I thank my colleague for the replica. So we agree on a lot of things. So, the economic existence of the family as such, I don't think it's the subject of the prosecutor's report on gender equality in the family's work as a family, and I think it's the public defender more in charge, but good about it then. As far as safe houses are concerned, the fact is that especially in rural areas, we have a big problem that you have listed, in the middle where everyone knows, where the victim of domestic violence simply doesn't have to say where to hide, but we also have to mention that there are a large number of local self-government units, and I think that's a good example of your unit of local self-government that you've done a lot for victims of domestic violence. So unless an individual is engaged, the head of a community is engaged in domestic violence unless there is support for all other institutions from the attorney's office and through the Ministry of Resort and all those who have to deal with the issue. I think our results are fragile and we don't have satisfactory indicators, but if we all agree together and if we show sensitivity, and first of all I have to recognize domestic violence as something that's wrong, then the problems are solved to the satisfaction of the victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111475	A new replica of respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111476	I am pleased to see that in your discussion you have particularly pointed out, apostrophe of women's reproductive rights and talked about the appeal of conscience and associations. I think you were rightly balanced about it because often the woman who finds herself in those moments is alone, and the deafening noise of such associations that are often aggressive, you also talked about the ways in which they perform, will not appease the woman, nor keep her from making a decision to abortion but rather the opposite. We have also heard from many today when he begins to live. For the believers, it is impeccable, but not by an act of insemination but by an act of nodation well, but these are now details in all of this, however, most often allowing men to talk about this subject without ever hearing them worry about what a woman decides to abortion. Because in those moments she was left alone, most often neglected by her own partner, by that child's father. But we've never heard that one appeal to them, never, not in the pulpits, let alone here in the Croatian Parliament. So by agreeing with what you've said, I'd just point out that some women are allowed to turn away from their own children.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111477	The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111478	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleagues for the replica. Well, we agree on that. There's nothing to add. What I would really like to see when with such arguments we say that something woman who decides to have an abortion is doing bad because a large part of Croatian citizens declared themselves Christians and then made an abortion in a Christian country is something that is not good. I would really like to see statistics on how many women who declare themselves to be Christians have made an abortion? So it's a matter of personal occasions, of troubles, of each individual's decision, and I don't think that any association, of us, or any of us have the right to interfere in the decision of anyone who will do what they do with their body and when they will. The law is very clear on that point. We need to be open and transparent and everything we're saying, we're only saying for reasons to update certain things, get our attention again because we're fighting something, we're fighting someone, and we're defending something that we just want to do. Everyone has the right to their own body is master of their own body and let by law do what they believe should be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111479	Replica, Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111480	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this is how someone on the side would listen to the report today in the Assembly, you'd say women are the right ones at the lowest possible level. I don't think that's the case. We have seen in the report that there have been certain violations and rights of men, so we can say that we are male today in a subordinate position if on behalf of all clubs today women are debated, so here I call on men to engage in this debate especially with the position of pointing out some good things today on women's rights, and I think it's going in the right direction. She also mentioned the attorney general and someone else mentioned the status of women in health care, so let's point out some good things, Ličko-Senj County let's say conservative, traditional center hospital director actually the hospital is run by the woman, Dom Health Gospić is the head of the woman, The Home of Health Otočac is the head of the woman, The Institute of Public Health Ličko-Senj County is the head of the woman, The Home for the Old and Powerless Head of Women, Head of the gynecology Women, Head of Pediatric Women, I don't know if I't know if I'm going to count it all, Head of the Internal Women's Department, Head of the Women's Employment Service, Head of the Social Care Centre, Head of the Department of the Emergency Medicine is the Women, Head of the Construction Office, Head of the Women and that I don't list the women. So now that we're looking at Lika-Senj County as a conservative traditional environment and there this should be in a slightly smaller way, and I hope that in other parts of the Republic here this situation is much better. So let us point out today and the good things that are happening in Croatia in terms of gender equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111481	A new replica of the respected Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tyrelli, I wanted to express my agreement with a part of the debate that you had concerning the reproductive rights of women with the fact that you have in some way set a small dilemma or questionnaire. You were talking about the rights arising from the law regarding women, so they have the right to do so if they decide to execute an abortion, and on the other hand, of course doctors have the right to appeal to a conscience, which is now a greater right. I think both rights are equal, so they come from our legal regulations. However, what is important and what needs to be highlighted and stressed is that it is the state that needs to be made possible when it comes to health care and the rights resulting from this making it possible for everyone in the entire territory of Croatia to be available. In this sense, it seems to me that it is very positive that the Ministry of Health reacted at a time or at a time when the number of health institutions in which all of a sudden had the call of conscience to say so dangerously began to increase and threatened that in some way this health care was being done by you in institutions, you cannot carry out state institutions. In this regard, I personally support both rights, and I support the right of associations to have some kind of protest. If they have nothing better to do in life than to pray in front of a hospital and let them do so, without any restrictions, what is important is that women who decide to do so do not scrutinize in all of this. This is the most important thing and in this respect women should be protected from such practices.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111483	The last replica of Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111484	Thank you. Comrade Tyrelli, I'd like to look back at two points of your exposure, one right woman's reproductive health is what we call the right to abortion, in fact, the right to choose the birth of children and prayer groups gathered outside hospitals. What's the biggest problem with that is that it's a perfidious way of gathering because they gather in such a number that they don't even report a gathering according to the gossiping laws, thus putting extra pressure on women for which no one knows why they're going there, so they're making it more difficult for them. No one stands for abortion as a means of contraception. For this reason, health education was to be instituted, and as we remember, there have been many attempts, and today the party calling for godly dialogue has grown to four hind legs and has advocated an uncanny and dogmatic approach to health education, and for this reason we do not have adequate medical education in schools today. The other thing I want to refer to is something that colleague Sobol spoke about, which is two laws that are not in any way in college, the Law of Medicine that regulates the right to appeal to conscience and the other Law on the right to choose parenthood that we have since 1978. For 37 years there has been no problem in this country, and the problem is the abuse of a call for conscience. I also advocate that we all here at the SDP club have the right to appeal to conscience, but no one has the right to abuse it in a way to make selections because some want to do amniocentesis, which is also intervention in the health of unborn life and child, and they don't want to do abortion. And then there's the difference between doctors doing it or not doing it. And therefore we call on the Croatian Medical Chamber and the Ministry of Health to arrange better the institute calls for conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111485	The answer to the replica of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111486	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleagues. So we agree in that part that everyone has their rights. I also believe that every doctor has the right to appeal to his conscience. But right now we're in this, now we've shown that it's extremely important that the resolution ministry reacts to the moment the problem arises. And the fact is that the Ministry of Health has made it possible for doctors to appeal to their conscience but also for women to stop their pregnancy if they want to. So the answer is very simple. If we have people and individuals who understand the problem, they'll react without delay. And I agree with you that even these prayer communities that are, it's questionable that both the gathering and the number that is there, we're missing something, we're allowing something, we're not responding at the right time, and then what we're not reacting to after a while is showing that it's costing us a lot more than we're reacting right now. So let everyone have their rights. And let those people think in it, let them pray, let them do whatever they want, but let them not endanger the rights of any other individual against whom they do so. So let them do theirs but let others do theirs because this is how it turns out in the truth in most cases that most Croatian citizens become victims of a minority of citizens who impose their own things, their thinking, their views and I don't think it's good for society.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111487	On behalf of the SDP club will speak the respected representative of Gordana Sobol, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with an associate, colleague and colleague. So some of my colleagues, I hope they don't mind giving me cream for the opening of today's debate. Here is a colleague of Milinović you have listed all the functions and positions of the woman in the area of your county. In that you forgot, I suppose, was on the principle of county ever a woman or was it today? What about the mayors, the mayors in the area and your county as well as all the other counties? How many rectors do we have? And finally, colleagues Milinović you are sitting here in the Croatian Parliament and not perhaps some woman from like, while we are already talking about how they are in such prominent positions, in prominent positions in your county. But I hope you won't mind me, but that's so much to be said about when we start a story about gender equality, and we forget what it really means, which is the concept of our law, which is gender equality. Gender equality means that women and men are equally present in all areas of public and private life, that they have equal status, equal opportunities for the achievement of all rights and equal benefit from the results achieved. That means gender equality. And given that definition, I have to say that I'm really here, I'm sorry that today here on this whole, on, where we can actually see that in gender equality policy colleagues are not going to talk, and that is your policies, gender equality policies are not only for women but also for men in exactly the same way. But it seems to me that it's actually going to be a long time before we get to the fact that everything that's written in this report that the D.A. has been working on, what she's been working on all last year, but she's also been working on in the past few years, and she's the first lawyer. So all of this should, in some ways, encourage colleagues to engage in this problem in a completely equal way and to actually be interested in them in the same way that we women write in this report. However, at the outset of her report, the Ombudsman herself stated that it does not represent an assessment and an analysis of the situation in the field of gender equality, but this report on the work of the Advocate’s Office indicates or may point to trends in relation to the achievement of the principle of gender equality and, in particular, the number and structure of complaints to the Ombudsman. And in fact, for some ways, for some years, about two-thirds of the complaints, the lawyers file a woman, and in their report, she speaks and discusses cases that mostly referred to women, so more than 70%. But this is what I would say, given that I had the opportunity and a good part of you here in the Croatian Assembly to testify to many previous reports, so many years ago. I think that we can, and from all this that it says in this report, realize that many things are still changing better in Croatia. Because in the last 15 years, I think we can track significant improvements in terms of achieving the constitutional value of gender equality. In many areas we have also achieved significant institutional and legitimate shifts. I don't think we can deny it and testify to that. And in all that this assembly does. However, what remains a permanent problem is that the overall glass ceiling that the Ombudsman and the special research has been working on, but are also constant, and every year the problems that women face on the labour market, discrimination that arises from that part, family violence, so as one phenomenon that we have absolutely failed to overcome all these years, so no matter what we do and finally, it is discrimination in the field of political participation or participation in the same way in all decision-making. The report shows that the most discrimination cases were related to the field of labour and employment, primarily then and domestic violence. When we talk about the field of work and employment we kind of reflect I would say the situation that we had years ago with certain shifts, so horizontally, and last year you re-establish both horizontal and vertical segregation on the labour market which is therefore still present. However, what can be read or is, of course, in your report and what gives certain hopes, which is that the rate of work of women in all age groups except for those over 50 years of age is higher than the EU average, so here is if nothing else and that is one piece of information that can give us hope and that positive employment trends in 2014 have nevertheless been observed in the last year. One of the big problems that remains is the problem of working for a certain time, but I would say well connected and because by working for a certain time you are losing the opportunity to achieve some other natural living needs such as getting any credit, certain uncertainty, etc. Women are shown to be more educated and last year the total number of women with higher and higher education levels is employed and is twice as high as the number of men employed in the same level of education. What we've also been trying for a few years, research has been done, and even from the attorney's office, it's a question of pay gaps. This is a question also raised at European Union level as one of the issues and problems in the field of gender equality. We do not have to be comforted by the fact that in Croatia, the gap is only 9 to 10%, unlike some European Union countries where the gap is over 30%, but we still do not seem to find the right way or the right measures to systematically work on reducing the gap in wages, by good reason and because tomorrow you have differences in pensions that are even bigger than pay gaps. In connection with women's labour market problems, there is certainly a need to highlight the problem of harmonising family and professional life and the Ombudsman's part of the report commits to the problem of use in the same way all types of maternity and parental support provided by the Law on maternity and parental support in Croatia because additional stimulating provisions have been introduced to encourage fathers to stay at home with their child. However, the data was truly defeated, that birth leave until the 6 months of childhood was used only by 0.4% of fathers. This is a truly devastating data, and when considering all the types of maternity and parental support that is generated on the burden of HZZO funds, men have only used this support in 2.22% of cases. This is something that all countries and at European Union level face, and we remain to continue working on it. But what I have to say, so the hardest thing to do is to fight against some traditional concepts, beliefs, stereotypes that exist, because I'm sure what's going on in the field of birth and parental support, so it's kind of a good part of having a belief that for children is better for mom to stay with them, then tomorrow you have a boomerang. You're also talking about the problem of favouring mothers from certain institutions when it comes to divorce, when it comes to assigning children, etc., where in a huge number of cases in advance, it kind of implies that the child should stay with the mother, where the fathers are very much cut off. So it's one link and I say the hardest thing to do is fight prejudice. What I would also like to emphasise about the issue of domestic violence, I expect that this will be in the next report, given that we have recently adopted amendments and additions to the Penal Code which we have in fact made to all those observations which have been, and all the trends that have been manifested since the start of the application of the new Penal Code, that this part of which refers to domestic violence is also meant to show our intention to be something that is not tolerated, which is punishable and I expect, in this sense, that in at least some years to two days and these new provisions, some results have been made because a total of 1107 crimes with elements of domestic violence have been recorded in the past year. And on the one hand, as it is recorded by about 10% declines in domestic violence, there is a trend in the overall number of crimes with elements of domestic violence, as well as the number of victims. And in fact, the trend that has been shown to us over the past two years shows significant and serious physical and sexual endangerment of women by close men. And simply, all together in that part, I believe that we here who are in the House through this legislative part can very well fight it. Here I would also like to mention discussions and I hope soon to pass the Law on the Protection of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, that is, during the aggression of the Republic of Croatia. And here it seems to me that in two readings we have received one law that I believe will contribute to at least correcting a part of the injustices that were in relation to all the victims of sexual violence during the Homeland War. The report highlights this and I would like to emphasise on behalf of the SDP club that we consider it extremely important and that the Life Partnership Act, i.e. on the life partnership of the same sex person, has been adopted and that this law has allowed the status found in this law, so LGBT persons that their status in everyday life has changed and improved substantially and has, in turn, been demonstrated that we have as a state in relation to other European Union countries almost best arranged. And finally, I want to mention something about the part about the media, a media image that is created in Croatia when it comes to the values of society, when it comes to women and men. You're the one who acted in x cases. I think it's good to have a good share of the media houses, so he accepts the recommendations you make. For me there remains a question of a variety of portals, so those who are completely deaf, who in some way do not understand absolutely what they are and are chasing these concepts with freedom of speech. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]] I believe that, as the government has pointed out in its report, when a new national media strategy is being done, it will also accept all your suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111489	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. [[Intruder Sobol: On behalf of the club, excuse me, we support the report.]] First Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111490	Dear Mr. Vice President, fellow Sobol, you said that the issue of using maternity leave is a matter of tradition, that it is most difficult to fight it. It's not just a question of tradition for you colleagues, it's a question of deep some psychological processes and relationships between a mother and a child that are still being created while the child is inside and out of it are also more optimal positions for the mother to be in the maternity care. We know that in the most developed, in this sense, in terms of this topic, to societies like the United States to have children,... I mean, my mother. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm just warning you it's not a matter of tradition that's a question and a professional segment of this debate only we don't get into it. I'm horrified when colleagues from your club compare beatings and amniocentesis. Well, that means they have no idea, they're not ready to argue. While this murder amniocentesis is one benign diagnostic procedure. And so to discuss it is unprepared completely. But I just want to draw a little attention to you that in the previous discussions from your club the attempt to attack was as much like the HDZ and so we're conservative. HDZ has proposed a woman for the president of the state and HDZ and the right-wing Corps and the right-wing centre has elected the president of the state. What else should be evidence that both the HDZ and the right Corps, the right centre, has advanced and progressed in this regard. Only on your side do I see retrograde processes, almost dogmatic processes that have no basis for either profession, science, psychology, or real life. And you do not dispute, nor would they choose her as a wife, but what for. That means we didn't, not that it didn't bother us, but we were glad she was a woman, that she was a woman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111491	Time. Replication response, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111492	My colleague Marasovic, therefore, you are a master at implicating everything and everything in matters that have nothing to do with the topic that is under discussion. But well, it's your right and your return and your attempt to cause conflict. What I can say is, I'm actually disappointed. I expect that if we are married and women are expected to fight for women, I expect that you, as a parliamentary representative, fight for the rights of men, and fight for the rights of fathers, that fathers are entitled in the same way, in the same way to participate in raising their children from the smallest legs of the moment they are born, from the time you are present to give birth to others. And you're talking here, you're trying to tell me about theories psychologically, like, why it's better that mother, this, that. No, we believe that in Croatia they have an equal right to care for both men and women and both fathers and mothers. And not that many, including men, but also women, remember, but mostly men have a problem when you get a divorce and when a judge decides either the welfare center or I don't know who the child belongs to. Then suddenly everyone remembers how they have the right to take care of the child. I would really like you as a man and as a father, but even if you weren't, to advocate your own right and the right of all colleagues to take part from the beginning in raising their own children. For me, that would be perfectly normal and desirable. Perhaps then a lot more about these topics would discuss you for a pay phone, not just to give you replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111493	Second replica, Darko Milinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111494	Thank you very much. Well, you spoke in your debate on stereotypes, and it seems to me that in your debate and that your debate has marked a lot with stereotypes. Namely, I wanted to commend a well-fused conservative traditional environment where the director of Plitvice Lakes is also a woman at the head of Plitvice Lakes National Park. The Nikola Tesla Memorial Center is a woman. North Velebit Nature Park is a woman. You wanted to minimize it all in some way and in some way demean all these women who are in Licko-Senj County in the lead because they are not at the head of the county women. Well, the deputy is, here's the deputy mayor's wife. So now, what's that supposed to mean? Now, if it were in Licko-Senj County and the mayor or the mayor, then it would be okay. Based on your debate, I am taking the lead, and since you are at the head of the Committee on Gender Equality that between Josipovic and the first president of the Republic of Croatia, which was drawn up by HDZ on the basis of your debate, I am now convinced and thank you for that and you have voted for Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović. Because that's what comes out of your discussion. But fight, be smarter, as if you're not smart enough, be smarter as if you're not intelligent enough, craftier, they'll forget that you're women and they'll be afraid of you. ... Yes, to Zoran Milanovic at the Women's Forum. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why didn't you answer? They'd be much more convincing, much more convincing with today's debate. If you want to work go to politics says one of the ladies, unemployed ladies in the Republic of Croatia. So, your debate is also etched with the stereotypes you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111495	Time. Replication response, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111496	I really don't know where you saw stereotypes and prejudice in my debate. It just means that you see stereotypes and prejudices actually in the Attorney General's report. What I was saying is, among other things, indicated and seen through the Attorney General's report. I have not been in charge of the Committee on Gender Equality for four years, Col. Milinovic. But maybe if you were here more often, you'd know it and see it. And you see, it's basically your problem, you, among other things, you and your colleague Milinovic, some colleagues in this House, when we talk about this issue, and when we talk about being discriminated, that we're in the minority, that we're here, that we're all there, so look, but in my county, that, that, and that and where do you see discrimination here? I see my colleague Milinovic's discrimination exactly in what you said, yes, in high positions when it comes to decision-making, when it comes to political participation, there are not enough women. So look at your own club, colleague Milinović. Look at your own club! As for the elected president, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, no, I did not vote for her because she is not my option. Regardless, forgive me, gender equality and the question of women does not mean that women are always going to vote for women. As far as President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic is concerned, she still needs to make moves, in her actions and in her public statements when it comes to women in Croatia, to show that she truly advocates gender equality. She as president will hopefully be able to do so, and then you will see how much the choice of the first Croatian president will have in general affecting the position of women in politics. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111497	Let's try to be so much, colleague Milinovic, let's try to be so gentlemanly that we don't throw the lady in the Parliament. At least when this topic is on the agenda. The last replica, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111498	Thank you very much. Fellow Sobol, I don't see any problem, a few years ago it seemed to me like some kind of problem, but today no longer, that in this debate as well as in all the discussions so far related to the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality actually almost exclusively, women participate in the name of their clubs, except in replicas. I also see it as the trust that the club representatives have shown to their colleagues that they can talk about this very sensitive and very important topic. Because in fact, in everything we're talking about, we're talking about the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is, of course, the law of all laws, and where gender equality is one of the values that is incorporated into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And I hope someday that even at the head of this office, the Attorney General will be a man because we're not just talking about women today. And that's for us to discuss absolutely clearly. We're talking about equality between men and women or women and men. The biggest problem I see here, and which you have also touched, is related to the position of women on the labour market, specifically for salaries that are very often less regardless of the same level of education or to the same level of quality and ability, and that means ultimately less pensions. And that's what's a big problem, because over the years we're going to have to extend our retirement time, obviously, and that's the problem that many women will unfortunately have less pensions than men. And it's a real topic for a debate on equality and why it happens with all our good laws, the Law on Labour, Gender Equality, Discretion of Discrimination, etc. It's actually a theme of all topics because life is always dependent on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111499	The answer to the replica of Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111500	Thank you. Well, considering, my colleague Kosor, I agree with you in this section where you spoke about the salary related to who's discussing, who's not discussing gender equality issues. I always say that even when we talk to colleagues, so with colleagues with men, then I say I don't know why you think the Law on Gender Equality is for women? Well, one day I expect that law, and I hope it protects you men from being at least 40% at all levels, etc. etc. So I believe that one day we'll be waiting for it. As far as this problem is concerned, the pay gap is something that I said, and in my debate, it does not comfort me that Croatia is paying for the pay gap between those lower levels and there are huge differences, I mean even the example of Germany that it can see that difference up to 35%. Which is a huge one number. And I only expect that if, that and as a state through national legislation, and through measures that are now being encouraged at EU level, one day, we will be able to reduce that gap to what it should be, and that is 0%, because then it will certainly have a cut of what you said. So in daily life and value given both to women and men but also to tomorrow and to retirement, which is at least when Croatia is concerned by the otherwise low level of pensions one particular problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111501	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111502	Thank you very much, Vice President, esteemed attorney with a co-worker, co-worker and co-worker. So here's teaching on these replicas I would say that you can see that far greater interest in this topic is gender equality among male colleagues on this side of the HDZ club than on this side. I wouldn't agree. This report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2014 as well as the one for the previous year is extensive and detailed and describes all the activities of the Ombudsman. It can be concluded that the lawyer’s office was very active in resolving complaints, making proposals, recommendations and warnings on gender equality. The figures say that in 2014 there were 2 588 cases which were more than 21% more than in the previous year when the increase again to the previous one was more than 40%. When we compare that only 11 employees worked on these cases, it means that it's about 235 items per employee, so let's compare it to that report from yesterday's attorney general where she was employed 32 and they had 3,800 items, which means half as much as what she had at the Attorney General's Office for Gender Equality, and we have to admit that she shows great work and deserves praise. Happy information that almost 95% of the cases fully respect the warnings, recommendations and proposals of the Ombudsman and, therefore, I would very much like to hear from the HDZ Club that, on some issues, topics and laws of the previous year, it may have been more explicit and a larger fighter, perhaps in these cases, the majority in this House would have made a slightly different decision. Although the Ombudsman cites positive labour market developments such as women's employment rates, when a little deeper entry into the analysis, we cannot be satisfied with the state of the women on the labour market as the Ombudsman also points out. In fact, the employment rate for women was 50%, the previous year 48%. However, in parallel with the decline in the unemployment rate in men, there was a rise in unemployment rates in women. During 2014, the number of high-school unemployed women increased by 4.4%, while the number of jobless men increased by only 0.4%. Employment of women in men would have been even more drastic on the harm of women if it hadn't been for professional training measures for work without a working relationship. In fact, women were employed at 3:1 compared to men. Furthermore, we wonder why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not yet launched a ratification procedure for the Convention that was adopted in Istanbul in May 2011. The European Council Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence, which confirmed that violence against women is a serious violation of human rights and forms of discrimination against women of the Republic of Croatia still as one of the few countries in the environment, and even Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia and Slovenia have done so. And it would be good for the government to respect this counsel's remarks. Although we should be pleased with the fact that there has been a decline in the number of acts of domestic violence by about 10% when we know the reason and that information is very sad. In recent times, it has been the practice of criminal courts to reject the indictment filed by the police for partner violence. In 2014, the number of crimes with elements of domestic violence as well as the number of victims increased by 276, and we also had 3 murders. These are quite alarming data that call for an urgent further improvement of the penal system, a public awareness campaign on this problem, police education and justice. So the competent centres for social care, police and the judiciary did not at some crucial point recognise the danger and take effective steps. Even centers do not recognize certain forms of domestic violence, but they call it mere impaired marital relations. While police mostly treat each other equally, they report and bring in both partners and victims and perpetrators of violence. Women victims of violence are further traumatized in the courtroom and are therefore more difficult to decide on applications, and when processing occurs, mild penalties are most often imposed, both for perpetrators and victims. It would be good to focus largely on the education of professionals when it comes to promoting gender equality, which is also indicated by the Ombudsman in his report. The report says, in Croatia, there is still insufficient implementation of measures that allow the harmonisation of private and professional obligations. The fact is that childcare services are not sufficiently developed, which is a problem for particularly employed parents and mothers. Public services, mangers and kindergartens are primarily organised as services available to employed parents, depending on their development, as well as on the hearing of cities and municipalities in which they live. As the Income Tax Act was amended in 2014, additional reduced incomes from cities and municipalities and those from which the work of pre-school institutions is financed were additionally reduced. These changes reduced the income of local self-government by around 1.8 billion kuna, and due to these changes, many cities had to raise the prices of the stay of children in kindergartens and mangers. It would be a good idea if the D.A. turned on and protected the children and theirs in the front row of the mother. We expect greater activity from the Government of the Republic of Croatia in strategical determination towards the protection of motherhood and the promotion of birth and family policy, but not only declaratively but concrete measures from those visible in the state budget to those amendments to the law. Women remain sub-represented in political parties and political decision-making positions, however, the first positive shifts are visible. In the European Parliament of 11 elected members, 6 are women, and especially happy to have the first Croatian president. In connection with the presidential campaign, although the lawyer invited participants to refrain from sexism or insults based on sex, such rhetoric was common. We testified in 2014 using a media space for sexist discrediting political candidates. We've had this before, but this time since she was the presidential candidate, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, she seems more than usual. It's been manipulated by sex as a polygon for labeling, calling and criticizing. As our president in the Vatican said yesterday, it's hard to be a woman. You should act like a lady, look like a girl and work like a horse. The fact that a woman has been elected president should help break the traditional concept of positions of power as a man's territory and encourage greater involvement of women in politics. All of us, especially women, should make a greater contribution to the protection and support of women. The sad fact is that when a woman and our president of the Republic of Croatia invites the heads of parliamentary parties to talk that at least all women do not respond to that call. In the public of great controversy, debates and divisions have led women to a legitimately induced abortion that is certainly not pleasant but a traumatized experience and probably an exit from extreme necessity. What becomes clear through public discussion is the setting of the right to abortion and to call for conscience. Since the Ombudsman is an independent, non-party and non-political body, it is unacceptable to call for sanctioning associations of believers and those of citizens who publicly believe that abortion is the murder of an innocent human being. And our Constitution guarantees freedom of thought, freedom of speech and public declaration and guarantees freedom of conscience and religion and free public expression of faith or other beliefs. All that we do today, roads and squares, kindergartens, schools, which is what we're gonna do if we don't have kids, and the fact is, every year, we get less and less. Last year 52,427, was born 39,596. There's less of us for 12,831. A year earlier, it was minus 10,000, and now over 12,000. Every year, the town of the size of the Cross disappears. Are you and we, as well as you esteemed attorneys, making our contribution to such a state? How many new lives will we have in same-sex communities? What message do we send to children who, at the worst of years, love and want to experiment and copy those special ones? The sad fact that we women who carry God's blessing and give birth to a new life do not support those who fight for the life of every innocent even unborn being. So I appeal to all of us, especially you dear colleagues, to your esteemed attorneys, to represent all genders, especially the weaker ones, the more vulnerable and the unborn ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111503	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas that are 7. First respected Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111504	Thank you very much. Here I fully agree with the debate, so on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, the more, in a way, again, we heard from here, says do not defend us men on the right. We heard that and it's not good. And that threatens to politicize this subject too. Because the Croatian Democratic Community is taking up a space that was reserved only for the SDP until yesterday, because only they have fought for gender equality and in this sense I support this debate. And when I point out some good details, when I mentioned 20 women who are at the head of prominent companies and organizations in Lika-Senj County, it is minimized. The Veli don't have the power to decide as mayor, so they decide, they just decide. And whenever we point out on the right some good examples as I wanted to point out, as I wanted to encourage in this House to highlight both good details and good examples, then we are suggested to say that there are no violations of human rights or that there are no problems in gender equality. There's one thing we're talking about, but we want to add one new note to this debate, and that's to talk about good things and not just bad things. Well, at the head, we said HDZ had also taken out the president of the state. HDZ also performed the first prime minister in Croatia. There's a woman at the head of the HDZ campaign. We also want to highlight good examples. However, Mrs. Sobol made good use of her time of 2 minutes, so she refused to say anything about being smarter, smarter or not congratulating the president, the elected president of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111505	The answer to Branko Juričev-Martinchev's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111506	Thank you very much. So exactly what you told your colleague Milinovic, the Croatian Democratic Union is considered a conservative party, and precisely men, MPs, colleagues are here today and participate actively in the debate on the prosecutor's report on gender equality. Furthermore, we have just had and now we have our president and in earlier terms we had a candidate for the president of the state who never had a Social Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111507	A new replica of the respected Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111508	Dear colleagues, tell them you had a prime minister. Here's just such a little dyspression. But then, yes, the other thing that you of course treated her the way you did, but well, that's your problem. Now, two things I'd like to show myself. You're the mayor, and I have to say, with honor to some exceptions that haven't spoken of, when there was a reduction in the funds that you're all talking about, but all in a row, the mayors and the mayors first made public, called the presses and said we now have to cut funds for kindergartens and mangers. And then, in turn, as far as those social needs are concerned, social issues within one municipality or city. I am now interested in why first on what, regardless of right or left, the first thing you as mayors and mayors go to is those social services. I'm interested in why, I've never been mayor or chief, why not find another way? No one, I've never seen any of the municipalities go to see if we might have too many employees. Is there some kind of rationalization? Is it possible we're spending too much money on a local football club where only men, boys and not girls play? So in that sense, I just don't get it. And secondly, President Kolinda called us into her office, one part of us responded, I think it was a matter of political decency but a picture that I had left of President Kolinda surrounded by eight appointed men's advisors. And it promotes gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111509	The answer to Branko Juričev-Martinchev's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111510	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow Sobol, income tax is strictly a dedicated income, and you know what it's spent on. Here I'll tell you, I'm head of the city, in the city of Vodice, after these amendments to the law, there's been no increase in prices, no kindergartens, no badges, no cut-offs, but we're going to cut down on the donations we're making for our own employees' incomes. So income tax is such income used for as you said kindergarten and associations and the functioning of local self-government units. Some of it, especially in the case of a large amount, had to happen. For example, in the city of Vodice in the first three months, we have more than 400,000 kunas less revenue compared to the previous year. Who do you take that away from? We don't finance so many associations or have so many high incomes or so many employees that we could go to a pay reduction or the abolition of certain associations. And so, most often, colleagues resorted, even those from the Social Democratic Party to raise kindergarten prices. I know that a colleague on this side, Mayor Bakra, he has reduced the personal incomes of his employees. The city of Vodice is not yet and we will try to be the last measure to decide on an increase in the price of kindergartens or mangers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111511	A new replica, Your Honor, Miss twilight, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I agree with your debate on behalf of the club, and often we here, as conservatives call us, have pointed out how this Law on Gender Equality is exploited and in one way I would say two-faced. Now, right now, colleague Sobol has shown you how it is done when she mentioned that you did not mention the former prime minister whom they did when she was prime minister with trees and stones, attacked, humiliated, by the current minister, but now praise her, now respect her, now respect her. Now, I guess we'd like to show ourselves that they're great valuers, and just like that, they're sitting in the back row with an esteemed colleague named Mirela Holly, who no one dared say a single word about. That's one thing. The second time you talked about that support, that's the saddest thing. Those who most pretend to support it, they least give it. Usually this support comes down to itself because you mentioned it well, yesterday and today our President Colinda, she doesn't need to be specifically defended, she's educated enough, she speaks English well that the whole world understands her and when she talks about herself as a woman then we don't need to defend her here in the Parliament, but we want to show her some things. It's not nice if we're saying we need a woman to support us, it's not nice to see ourselves in the media in different networks from Facebook to further in the most humiliating way. Why, what is it, about jealousy, about what? Not you, so I'm looking at anyone here, it doesn't matter. What's this about? ... /The noise in the hall./... Instead of talking about how our family is impoverished, how young people leave, how they can't even start a marriage union, how we can't have or can't marry or have children because they have nothing to live on. Well, that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111513	Time. Thank you. The reply to the replica, Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111514	Thank you very much. Well, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, we can't go around talking about women in politics, and I didn't forget her in my presentation either. I was talking about the president's institution, and we know very well that she was also our candidate for president of the state. So HDZ doesn't just live with a woman in a party and in politics in recent years, but we've done it before.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111515	A new replica, the esteemed Nadica Jelesh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111516	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Juričev-Martinchev, you quoted in your debate the president of the state who said last night in the Vatican so it's hard to be a woman today, you have to think like a man, be a lady and work like a horse. I don't know if you deliberately shut up or forgot to quote this first part so you have to think like a man. I think it's a bad message, so such messages should never be sent to women, women must think as women and enrich politics exactly by a woman's way of thinking and making decisions. So if we think like men, we won't get the changes we're talking about and who we're trying so hard to get. So in that case politics will remain primarily male business and I will in this sense quote one of my colleagues who has said very nicely that more women in politics would be a more honorable job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111517	The reply to the replica, Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111518	Thank you very much. Well, the president probably said to think like a man meant that we're mostly in a man's world. We need to know very well what they wanted to say in their actions, how they think they might be closer to them. But I agree that in every position when I choose, I will gladly choose my wife as an associate. I think women are more loyal, more pedantic, due respect to male colleagues, more tolerated, and that each part of the job will do better than male colleagues. All due respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111519	Replica, esteemed Sunhead, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Juričev-Martinchev is currently at the Croatian Employment Service 277 443 unemployed, of which 160 000 women. Competitions are open and now imagine HZZ says they're looking for a cleaning lady, not a cleaning lady, but a cleaning lady, but she's looking for a driver, not a driver. So let's be clear right now about how we behave in terms of equality on the labour market. Once a year, we all talk about the same subject here, and eventually we realize that for 10 years, there are no clearer movements and that we are going to do everything as a policy that can change something so that such things are not so visible, so something is trying to do by amending the Electoral Law. I would warn of something else, which is the media that are our window into the world, the media that can make a significant contribution to improving the position of the sub-represented sex. We're talking about women right now. My colleagues, Martinchev, I've never seen the media watching our male colleagues in a way that we can see what shoes they have, how much these shoes cost, and if this Croat tie, but that's why they analyzed the MPs' colleagues as they're dressed, how much they possibly cost, what kind of bag they have. So he'll look at you first if you're a woman, and then he'll decide if he hears you, whether he listens to you, or whether he considers you competent for what you say. When we talk about the media, just in conclusion, look at the structure of the guests in political shows, serious or economic, whatever you want most of them are called men as relevant persons on these topics, and very few women, and that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111521	Time. The reply to the replica, Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111522	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues of Sumrak, Glavak, today we have the cover of "The Handsome Anna Karamarka Iron Image". I wonder if it would ever stand for a man like that? It's sad how we're experienced by the media and how they write about us as barbics, as if someone who can have a pretty stick and how many other qualities we have, how capable we are, smart that already comes into the third and maybe the fourth plan. When you talk about unemployment, the drop in the unemployment rate is seen in 2014. But that's why the unemployment rate is growing in women. Furthermore, when it comes to professional training of women and men are employed in a 3:1 ratio. I wonder if those aren't the measures that made many young people decide to work first for 1600, and now a little more than 2400. How long would a woman be at the Employment Service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111523	Followed by the replica of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, you motivated me to do the replica in the opening part where you said that on the right, they wanted to make us look conservative, like this. I don't want to deny it as much as I'm more or less conservative, but in addition to those political representations in my council, there's that percentage that my colleagues on the left side advocate. But it's not important, the point of what you highlighted in your debate is those real problems, where in response to the replica, you told your colleague Sobol very clearly about both those kindergartens and all those opportunities that we are obliged to provide, that women, I always advocate in rural areas that I can live and work in a normal way. And this is true, and no one even shed a tear when it was a reduction based on income tax. No one did. And secondly, I reiterate that in rural areas women have major problems, I also said about the domestic violence, as regards housing, it is not systematically resolved and many women are not even motivated to act politically and work, but to live certain values. We in our county and in other parts have that festival "Ladies of Rural Areas" that want to display our values for which, so let's give them that. Let's just not put them in a position where they can't. Here, in big words, we stand here like this, this percentage of the way. We provide them with social opportunities and opportunities to care for children and all others so that they can live normally because they can prove themselves and prove themselves in many areas of what we have heard today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111525	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111526	Well, thanks a lot, buddy. Here I am once again back on the subject of kindergarten, so I'd like to appeal to our attorney for gender equality. There may be no information that, for example, European funds can finance the construction of roads while, for example, the construction of kindergartens cannot be financed in a settlement above 5,000 inhabitants. It would be very good if we were already given the means that our negotiators could get such one help because it would mean a lot to the future and our children, especially parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111527	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111528	Dear colleagues, as bad as it is to politicize and banalize, because then we actually get out of our sight of real problems, it's as bad, if not worse to bring women to mothers, bring women to parents and bring women down, that is to say from the position of their reproductive function, at the same time denying every woman's right to decide for herself about her reproductive rights. It's something that's against women no matter what their attitude is. Every woman has the right to decide about herself and the job of a woman is not to be a mother, the job of a woman is not to be a wife, the job of a woman is not to take care of a family. She does, of course, but it's just as much work and women as men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111529	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111530	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleagues, surely every woman has the right to her own life and to determine him in the direction she wants. But in the end, I said in my final word that by God's blessing we bear and give birth to a new life and that we are, in the first row, who could and should do something more to protect everything, especially those weaker, more vulnerable, and those unborn.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111531	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111532	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. An important debate, always more or less similar or the same. Because what are we discussing here? We're discussing and that's why I think it should actually come back very, very precisely to the report filed by the prosecutor because we're actually discussing what I said earlier in the replica about constitutional values. Gender equality is one of the constitutional values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia since its adoption and today. On the basis of constitutional values, many excellent laws and laws on the prevention of discrimination have been written before the Law on Gender Equality. And I think that there is every government and every assembly of the Croatian Parliament as far as this is concerned, making a contribution. There's always been a step further. And we can conclude that the legislative framework, the constitutional framework, is excellent, that we have some really high standards that may not have other countries. We cannot be dissatisfied but especially in this area when we talk about equality or compliance with the provisions of both the Constitution and the law. One is practice, one is life, the other are laws and the other is the Constitution. I think it'd be good to get things back to square one. In no way are we talking about this report only about women and we are not talking about women only and women's equality, we are talking about gender equality. So, both men and women. The fact that, of course, women in Croatia are more and more sub-represented and discriminated in many areas of life is certainly political and any other fact. And that's probably why it seems like we're talking more about women and women's inequality than men, but I warn that one day, probably when at the head of the Gender Equality Office he's a lawyer, so he's a man, that it's also going to be another step further. With the fact that, of course, no one would have misunderstood the work of the lawyer and her team and I greatly appreciate the office's involvement, competence. And what I find particularly important is initiatives that often come from the work of the Gender Equality Office. The focus of equality or inequality, and I think it would be good if there were a focus and in this debate is equality in the field of labour, employment, non-employment and the data provided by the Ombudsman are very clear in that sense, so there are more unemployed women. What is the fact that each of us can testify that women in the 21st century Croatia, an EU member country, are often publicly or secretly, often secretly, discriminated because only women still wonder in Croatia today when they are trying to get a job, whether they have children, whether they want to have children. And that's an absolute discriminatory fact, and we haven't been able to solve it in any way until today. When I talk about the field of employment, or when I talk about the facts that come from the labour market, then it is necessary to return to what life is always, everyday life. Look, in my neighborhood I have literally a few meters of a center that also changed owners but it's always the same practice, and so everywhere else, so look who's employed at shopping malls, in shops – most women. Look at what it looks like on Sundays, see what it looks like on holidays. All the holidays, they get up at four o'clock in the morning to get to work, they're there late on Sundays and holidays and every day. Women, of course, who do extremely difficult work because they have to wear and be strong, but I will not mention that they are doing it for small wages, and we should talk about it in particular, and no one in this particular sense is concerned, or most of us put our hands on the heart of most people who are going to worry about equality or inequality will go away on Sundays and holidays when these shops are supposed to be closed, they will go to buy a little something that you could buy three days before, etc. And all these women, or most of those women, are both mothers and wives and carry the burden of the family. It seems to me that perhaps a special prosecutor’s report should be dedicated and a special study of these women who would survive and ultimately ensure that they work in impossible conditions for their families. No pathetic and no political bickering. As far as I'm concerned, here's what I'm mentioning because their lawyer points out that the most complaints she received during the reporting period are from the field of work and employment. I've mentioned less pay already, it's not such a rare phenomenon for the same education, for the same competences, and even for bigger lower salaries, and then consequently less pensions. I think that in the context of gender equality, we should discuss especially older people, especially those who live alone. It's hard to be single, it's hard to be the very man who lives alone, and the woman who lives alone. Singles face terrible problems, whether they work or not, whether they're in retirement, hard to live, hard to make ends meet, and that's what's left, that's what ladies and gentlemen call equality. So they equally deserve equal treatment and equal conditions. And I'm going back to the Constitution, so they're equally valuable to both women and men who have a family and who don't. They are equally worthy of women who have given birth and who have not given birth. Equally worthy are women among those who have given birth to children who have one and who have seven children. That's how you should look at things, in my opinion. And otherwise, men and women must respect both the Constitution and the laws, so especially when elected to high duties, they must respect the Constitution and respect the laws. And neither men nor women are allowed nor can be tolerated from the Constitution or the law simply because they are women or only because they are men. As for family and family support, here are data on how very few men use the possibility of staying with a child, here 0.4% related to the use of maternity leave and only 4.88% of parental leave seems to be not so illogical after all, it is a time when a child is only born, quite little and of course it is logical that this family population policy is then determined that the child remains mostly a mother. As family minister here, I tried to take some steps forward with my associates, so in terms of devising maternity benefits in the first six months. This made it possible and I know a lot of women who have decided to go to work right now because, that is, to stay for motherhood and then to go to work just because of this possibility, as here is then the possibility of using a three-year leave for twins mothers, three or more children. Many women have used such an opportunity of three years of staying at home and finishing their master's degree, and so on. That's why I think every government really needs to support the family in this sense, but not just the government but the local community do more. I think that local communities should compete in this regard who will provide better conditions, build more kindergartens, allow kindergartens to also have a delicate working time, to comply with the obligations of young families in particular and, of course, with working hours, especially women. Because the fact is that still in Croatian society the burden of concern or should not be called burden, but the decision to care for the family is mainly about women. And that's a fact. I also think that we should do everything possible to ratify the European Council Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women as soon as possible. Here's the lawyer's complaint, 78% of all reports, 78% of all complaints of violence against women, so women are victims of violence, women and children. This figure is not known at all until the end of the public, there we meet with traditionalism, most often the victims of women who are particularly suffering economic violence, so the economics is one of the most terrible violences, the commitment of women as victims of violence, the inability to open new opportunities and to launch any new perspective because they are tied up. And that number is in the gray zone. Definitely we will never know how much women really suffer violence because the traditional environment still often says it is their personal problem, they will solve it. As far as multiple discrimination is concerned, I would personally warn, and here on behalf of the club, of course, women with disabilities and their inequality that is difficult to measure with any one. From the provision of health services, here is if we now look for all the information about, for example, gynaecological tables in gynological offices throughout Croatia that are adapted to women with severe disabilities. We'd get defeat results. Not to mention areas of work and employment, especially women who are often discriminated against, women with disabilities additionally and discriminated against. And certainly women who pass a certain age. After 45 years ladies and gentlemen very difficult women who remain, much easier men, but women who lose their jobs very hard to find work. Up to 30 are too young, and 35 are too old. And finally, here's a word I'd like to say about the media. One example I'm going to point out is that it is related to the work of the lawyer, when the attorney general responded to gender equality, and I'm going to say it again because this is a very good example, to a statement by a respected doctor, a gynecologist, in fact, that the process should be banned from aiding insemination of women living alone. Then the D.A. wrote a statement in accordance with the law and with the Constitution, so that it was absolutely unacceptable. However, that statement, as far as I was able to track, was not published by almost anyone. So the media is this statement where the Ombudsman points to an eclectic example of violation of the Constitution and the Law on Gender Equality and Discrimination of Discrimination has actually not been published by anyone. The media found this completely irrelevant and irrelevant. And another example that appears daily that shows that the media certainly play a big role and that they can certainly do a lot. Take a look and analyze the so-called ones in particular. Women’s magazines, but this is also being carried out elsewhere, when some celebrities had a child, were married or not married, then in principle the person known to the public and all those who were married or in an outmarried relationship were born to that man anyway. Well, she didn't have a son, and she always stands out, of course, especially if it's a son, she didn't give birth to him, she gave birth to herself, or she gave birth to her family, because she wanted to. So she did not give birth to her husband or to a man but rather gave birth to that child as a conscious person, above all, to whom it belongs first. So these are some of the examples where media consciously or unconsciously actually dictate a very often pace. Here's my thanks to the attorney's office again for another very extensive and very balanced report with a lot of information that we're going to accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111533	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111534	Dear colleagues, Kosor, with most of your debate, I agree. We don't think the same thing, I don't stand for unity as many people argue falsely because unity doesn't exist. I agree, we are a conservative, patriarchal society, but out of it comes a kind of discrimination in which you are well... but we need to know that we have discriminatory laws here in the Parliament. The biggest discrimination against one group of men and women, but men and women, which are workers, is the biggest discrimination, workers. It's the biggest discrimination. However, today I read one text about how paid women are in Croatia, how lagging behind men's salaries on the same jobs under VSS means the same professional cookout as in Europe. We're more advanced here than the others. Why? It's the legacy of that black darkness. It was brought into socialism. Discrimination started with women compared to work and professional training after the 1990s. That's what you keep quiet about, the ones who passed the law. ... First of all, you don't understand anything else at all because you wouldn't say stupid things, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm saying that the positive thing that came from Yugoslavia was that at the time women were less discriminated against than they were. That's right. And another discrimination that these days... is when you mention a model who was abused by three men. She's in all the photos with a full name and a last name, three men who did it, and one known is not a single medium, all the media knows who these men are, not a single medium mentioned that name of a famous man. It's pure discrimination and it should scream until there is no. It is necessary to embarrass the woman who was, but the men who committed the crime are not even mentioned and only discussed the victim in a negative context.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111535	Time. Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111536	Thank you very much. As for workers and workers, I think they've always been discriminated against, that women have always been discriminated against in most cases no matter what state we're talking about. But the fact that I also agree there, the data for Croatia is better when compared with some countries of old democracy and also with some of the old members and founding members of the EU, that is correct. However, we do not need to be satisfied, so we must really seek that all of our constitutional frameworks that say that we are all equal before the law and that gender equality is one of the values of the Croatian Constitution and then society, we must strive to do so because otherwise it will all be a dead letter on paper, if that is so. I don't know how they put it in the constitution elsewhere, I don't think there's any such decidated provisions everywhere. And as for this cover, so now we can list thousands of cases. It's really embarrassing and it hasn't happened again for the first time, it can come down to one thing. When something happens that is intriguing and which is from a lot of aspects unacceptable. When men and women get caught and it becomes a public matter, then men are guys, and women are nothing. And that's something that in this case is absolutely unbearable. And as for the media, every person's privacy should actually be protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111537	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111538	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed attorney with the co-worker. Well, lawyers' institutions for gender equality are certainly a necessary correction in any society that promotes the values of democracy and human rights. But, of course, because of some imperfections, it is possible to predict practices and norms that then have gender discrimination for their outcome. The increased activity of the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality must, to some extent, come from the fact that women today are far better informed about their rights and the forms of measures at their disposal to protect their rights and whether it is a family circle, a workplace or a media space. A positive trend is supported by statistics showing that in 2014 a total of 2.588 cases were worked, representing an increase of 21.3% compared to 2013. The complaints remain largely related to sexual discrimination and in most cases to women. The analysis of complaints also shows that a lot of complaints come about the right to social security somewhere around 39%, and then labour rights about 30%, which makes a significant share of 69% and then public information and media about 6.5%, and of course there is health care of 2.8%. In practice, discrimination occurs in various areas of public and private life. Family violence is one of the most common forms of violence against women where complaints and police statistics show that nearly two-thirds of the victims of domestic violence are women. One of the most positive examples is the change in public awareness and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in persuasion of family violence as a serious social problem as opposed to the previous periods when it was considered a demon of private life. It was this change of paradigm that allowed women to seek protection from these competent institutions and was given adequate assistance that exceeded the collection of statements and material evidence and was given support as well as understanding through the help of psychologists, through legal assistance and protection from the possibility of repeating the work. In its report, the Ombudsman also finds that, in a high percentage of 94.83% of cases, warnings, recommendations and proposals submitted by the public authorities of all levels, bodies with public authority and other legal and physical persons are fully respected, acting on complaints received in cases in which it has found discrimination which is a very encouraging data. The big problem remains the sub-representation of women in positions where important social, economic and political decisions are made, which is necessary to change. Women are still under-represented in political parties and political decision-making positions. However, a positive shift is visible in the European Parliament's elections and the women's choice for the first president of the Republic of Croatia. This important shift is also an amendment to the Electoral Law on Assembly on Election Lists where you know 40% must be sub-represented sex. The report certainly also points to the problems facing the Ombudsman in the work, but it is objectively as it states in its inability to solve it. One of the most important problems in its opinion concerns the measure of the strategy of permanent and temporary housing management of victims of domestic violence in accordance with the available housing at national level, which measures are almost not implemented since it does not know who the main holder of the measure is. It also warns of poor implementation of measures to encourage the employment of victims of violence. So it points to a particular problem that it cannot solve, it cannot solve itself and thus points to both the government and the ministries, so here are the MPs to get involved and that the identified problem needs to be dealt with systematically because otherwise, of course, the next report will again be found as one of the worse ones. And then we tend to all tell us that nothing has been done and eat at the attorney's expense, no matter who it is then, it will be heard again. Despite the obstacles and difficulties he faces in his work according to all the indicators of the report, the Ombudsman, of course with the help and cooperation of the team, managed to raise awareness of the need for anti-discrimination action on gender equality and human rights of women. No one can say that no efforts are made by the Ombudsman, associations representing women's rights, public and political persons in order to achieve gender equality. But despite all that, according to the Ombudsman, there are no large and historic steps. I still have to say when it comes to rural areas in the Republic of Croatia, apostrophe of some indicators in general about life and status and the female role, unfortunately very few, sometimes almost no. I think that the status and role of women in rural areas primarily of women in the country has not been sufficiently explored, there is not enough attention and therefore there is no concrete data that would give us one idea of the social and economic situation of women and their involvement, therefore involvement in education, in the system of health and pension insurance, but not the position of rural women in families and economies. The status and position of women in the rural area has also been neglected by the media, and I believe that the media, especially state television, could work very hard on this so that women in the rural area, especially in rural areas, can learn a lot about their rights. So in this area, both the Ombudsman and the Advocate's Office need to work harder and include the local community, which I think is a very important link in helping, in communicating with the attorney-general who can very much contribute to improving women's status in rural areas. The prosecutor's report on gender equality was thorough, it was heard in several discussions. A material has been developed that shows very specific data on the measures taken to reduce discrimination to as little as possible, as well as the involvement of a large number of legal and physical persons in all segments of our society which have earned praise, recognition for the effort made, and therefore the HSU Club will support this report in a warm way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111539	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111540	So just for a little while, my colleague Ilic, what you said in the part where you were talking about women in rural areas and everything else, is what seems to me, so I agree with your grades, what makes me think that in Croatia we are not yet able to do enough, and that is, to achieve full equality, and so we call that part of the particularly sensitive group when it comes to women, even when women are in rural areas of women victims of violence, etc. We somehow do not hesitate or manage in a good way to implement something called special measures, so measures that may at first seem discriminatory to some other groups and, unfortunately, our Constitutional Court has made some of the measures that existed in different segments unfortunately to its interpretations and decisions unconstitutional. We have, for example, special measures today, one of them is that when you apply your projects to enter entrepreneurship, let's say through HAMAG, through the Ministry of crafts and the like, that women who go out with their means, they get at the beginning of 10 points more. When it comes to women in political parties, then for each member, gender sub-representation, primarily those women... are more funds. So somewhere these measures exist and are treated as good, and unfortunately, they don't work. Somehow it seems to me that we do not have the courage to say so to go more with these special measures because under the Law on Gender Equality they are possible, they are desirable and are not considered discriminatory compared to other groups. It seems to me that we could all look for a lot more space together.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111541	Time. Maria Ilic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111542	Dear fellow Sobol, I agree with you with everything you've said. However, that is why I have also cast an accent on the implementation of action plans and programmes in those parts, so in local communities they could contribute extremely much to the very reference and education of women from rural areas, especially from villages as I mentioned in the media that could play a major role in this particular segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111543	On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111544	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. On behalf of the HNS Club of Liberal Democrats, I would like to say immediately at the beginning of this address that we will support the report as we did earlier years ago because we highly appreciate the efforts of the Office of Advocates and persons working in this system, especially their proactive approach in considering and addressing the issue of gender inequality in the Republic of Croatia. This proactiveity is what makes us particularly happy because there is so much left to do that it seems that several generations of politicians, including the calls of the Croatian Parliament, have something to do with the adjustment of regulations, but first of all to introduce a new positive practice that will bring discrimination, regardless of which sex it existed. What we want to point out in particular, and what is going through as a permanent problem, unfortunately which is not at all solved, but even seems to be getting worse every year, is the role of the media in raising awareness of gender inequality and one specific approach, especially in the case of tabloid media that underlines and those cases that should be portrayed as negative in light that is actually sensational and which almost 100% end up at the expense of gender inequality in these situations. So sensationalism, showing people in light that does not highlight their personality, their rights, their privacy, but treats them as goods is not only the result of general consumerism but also the consequence of one tendency to attract attention to scandals, regardless of what the harm seems and how insults the dignity of a human person. There is still a lot of space in employment policy, and they said something about it on behalf of other clubs, it is obvious that the problem is seen, it is obvious that it exists, obviously it is not solved quickly enough and that it is simply in front of some problems as if we are closing our eyes and tolerate situations where inequality is almost normal in some systems regardless of whether it is business or management and should be accessed from the lowest level of the social scale it seems to be so much mentioned as the role of local self-government, regional self-government, or the functioning of this issue at local, regional level is not to be ignored, and it seems to me that it is very, very little at these levels. It is as if the lost elan that existed up to a few years ago in the activities and activities of special committees in the counties, in large cities that monitored the situation and proposed to improve the situation through different forms of education, workshops especially those that went towards empowering women for work and action and affirmation in the local community. And rightly someone said, it seems to me to be a fellow Sobol in one replica that unfortunately it was recently that we were witnessing that many local self-government leaders when they talk about savings actually go into the soft belly of this problem, and that's the part of the social care that they are primarily for, so interested mothers. And in this sense, many times so far, there have been cases of this being interpreted as one of the most banignant approaches in savings, and in fact it is lost from sight that such a form of savings, i.e. restrictions, or new burdens to citizens is actually a major threat to the social position of a woman. The issue of gender equality and struggle for it is not something that has a small or short tradition in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, though, many bright examples seem to remain merely evidence that practice has generally not changed in many environments. We really live in a society that carries the burden of patriarchism, that is, the fact that when Anka Berus became a minister or when someone became president of the Republic, unfortunately, in many ways he does not play a great role here. There are countries that, in this sense, may be in a worse situation than we are, which can also say that they have a prime minister or a Prime Minister, but that this does not significantly reflect major progress in gender equality and in a policy that is conscious, that gender discrimination is actually reflected in the social capacity and capital of the entire society. And recently, by discussing the Home Secretary's report, for example, we could see that the number of crimes and violations from the domain of domestic violence is still too large and that we are failing to achieve significantly better results. It is also not particularly necessary to prove that family abuse targets are mostly women, right after them children, and only in third place husbands, or men. There were times when the data on this were scarce and statistics seemed to say that it was not there, but we know very well that it was an artificial situation and that it may have been even worse at that time, because it wasn't much talked about, and society was insinuating a syndrome where it was a shame to talk about domestic violence. And you know who wore the biggest cross in that sense, who suffered the most. But it is important to do everything and every day, and there is the role of the Ombudsman that is extremely important for this problem to be regained and that the problem of domestic violence that I repeat in a huge percentage affects women is manifested as social evil, as an unacceptable form of behavior, and in particular a completely pointless form of resolving any conflict in the family. Emphasizing the importance of education especially in smaller areas, in rural areas as well as empowerment, so learning about communication skills, opportunities and providing as many opportunities as possible for women's affirmation would begin a process that would certainly and at national level eventually give better results. If we are already aware that local communities under the auspices of a lack of funds escape from this kind of social responsibility, do not discuss competitions in which those who are truly capable and high-quality could create and implement such programmes, then we should make additional efforts to make regional self-government concerned through specific sources of funding, through specific competitions and through monitoring opportunities. This applies, of course, to counties that have a lower level of development and where, unfortunately, these problems of discrimination are more pronounced by nature. Finally, I will repeat once again the Croatian People's Party club – liberal Democrats will support this report, welcome the prosecutor's proactive efforts and wish that in the coming years we have even better results and a lower level of concern for the general state when it comes to this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111545	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111546	Thank you, well-respected Madam Vice President, esteemed lawyers for gender equality with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I support this report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2014, considering, therefore, not only because of reports that were described in detail in all those situations where the Ombudsman and her associates worked hard, persistently, on the affirmation of women's rights, to improve the position of women in Croatian society. So to discuss this subject today means first of all to be convinced that men and women are still not equal today. We are not at peace with this, and the Ombudsman proposes a whole series of concrete measures. I think here we as a legislative body that we have done a lot at this legislative level, someone has also mentioned practice, that it is still not as we expected, as our legislative solutions, but there are still traps in the legislation where they should be recognised as hidden forms of sexism, but also work to improve legislation that will effectively bring women and men into an equal position. First of all, I want to say that some discussions, I will not now look back on today's debates in the Croatian Parliament, but also in general, and even of some who appear publicly on this issue, I would agree with our great writer Krleža, who has found that unfortunately, although man is almost 2 million years old, the upright being that some are still in the heads of the quadruples. And indeed it is about men's equality to speak in a banal way and to banalise by listing what positions certain women have in certain environments or at the state level have achieved means actually to swing and it means to deny the fact that men and women are still unequal and that they should be equal. It's like they're ordering what women still want. First, I believe that a woman would exercise all the political rights guaranteed to her as well as to all men, above all, because that applies to men, that they should achieve economic emancipation. Of course, in times of crisis, women are like those who are often economically dependent, and most often on men, they find it difficult to exercise their basic rights. That is why all our further efforts must go in the direction of economic empowerment of women on the one hand, and on the other hand, that men and women take on equally the obligations and rights of family life. Our law makes it clear that both men and women are obliged to raise their children. We see that this burden of family life is mostly borne by women, and today. Being in other countries too is no excuse. But in many countries, especially in Western European countries, it's not like that anymore. Therefore, which is the way out of all of this, it is that men become more private and women more publicly in terms of greater engagement and equal starting positions so that they can also deal with their profession and also in public affairs. Thus, women living their private lives often restrict them with all desire and will to devote themselves first and to their profession, and then engage in public political life. In that sense, what should we do? I mentioned something earlier just before the Constitutional Court's decision that both men and women will have to go with the same woman soon to retire with an equal number of years. This just assumed that until then practice and clearly that it would not work itself to need legislative initiatives that would simply lead men and women to a more equal position within the framework of family life. Both men and women are procreation but there will be creation. No woman can only be realized if she is in the kitchen. First of all, it is also our duty here, primarily to be a politician, and this is how the attorney and the entire office manages, in this sense, the economic empowerment of women and its independence as basic assumptions of achievement and other rights, above all political rights. It's often said what a woman's position is, and I'd add a man to the labour market. We got into that one trap labour market. So wherever the market is, there are goods. And every customer wants to get as high-quality goods as possible and pay it as cheaply as possible. Well, when it comes to women, they work longer, and they're paid less. And that's quite evident from the objective, relevant data that the D.A. and the substantiate have given us. And the language discriminates, and we often and unconsciously fall into it. We're also talking about human resources. So man, and then even more to the point of referring to women, is reduced to adjectives, so he's neither subject nor object anymore. Human resources are important, and wherever there are resources there are waste. We must not agree to this, especially in Croatia where the Social Democratic Government is in power, but I see that there is a consensus that we all agree on it here. A man can't be a slave. Unfortunately, all of this is most manifest in women. It is dramatic, as the lawyer warns, that many colleagues have talked about it, including our colleague Gordana Sobol, who spoke on behalf of the club, how few men use parental leave. That's defeating. And as we've seen what we can and must do? Exactly, it would be the wrong way simply to force fathers, partners to go on parental leave in such a way, that is, by the letter of the law. There should be measures of proactive policy, perhaps here's a proposal I've made several times, and now I repeat it to this occasion simply if the parents are offered they'll be happy to use just to offer it. And we see that a parent, a father often uses parental leave if it's a more stable economic situation. Thus, whether it is used by a man or a woman, or a mother or a father, or by a guardian, it is necessary to equal the amount of such parental leave so that both mother and father are present in raising a child. Everyone swears to the family, but it is for the health of the whole family, and above all, the child of crucial importance. Because in raising not only is it according to our letter of law, but no one will deny it that the child needs both father and mother. The shame is simply, I will point out again this time that the Constitutional Court for the first time without any insistence in the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court suspended the functioning of the Family Law. He went in that direction first of all to affirm the rights of the child and the duties of the parents which the existing law was not absolutely on that trail. In addition, what we promote, as seen in the report, and I think about it should also be the agreement of a partner relationship between a man and a woman. This is not only in terms of the economic emancipation of women but also in a better position for women and a healthier family. I'm going to look back on something and, a little earlier, I've talked about a discriminatory relationship that often has a language, our Law on Gender Equality and courts apply also to discrimination, recognition and discrimination, domestic violence still cautiously. So today we have women, judges who won't be called judges. So we have to insist on law enforcement and professions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111547	Thank you. Your colleagues have replicas and you will continue. Ada Damian replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111548	I thank the esteemed vice president. My colleagues Ingrid fully agree with your debate but I wanted to point out a different example, an example of my municipality, which is a typical female municipality of the name itself further. I will mention that the fourth term is at the head of the women's community. That we actually had to protect the male quota because of the principal, headmaster, director of the municipal company, director of the tourist community, school principal, kindergarten, etc. So in all these positions are women. I'm not going to say that our men understood our female value, but I'm going to say that that's why we fought and today I can say that we cooperate successfully because we became partners. And I want this attitude to definitely prevail in all environments, such equality, and therefore I always invite women, girls to join all spheres, I would say social work, activity, and politics just to equalize that quota. And I repeat, I want everyone as equal as it is in my women's community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111549	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111550	In many areas, the situation is similar to yours. I who consider both age and sexual equality, gender equality is desirable everywhere. We have entire professions that are almost completely feminized. Can we say that this results in greater equality between men and women? It may seem that, in essence, there is a fact that men flee to better paid places, which are not as painful as the hard work in the local self - administration unit or in other professions. Sometimes, let's just say the exclusive interest of a judge, a lawyer, today they're no longer exclusive occupations, they're not even salaries considering, pay is how much the state, given its economic power can provide there, surely it is, but in general, given the engagement that such a profession is essentially unprofessional but the way of life is not yet adequately paid. And that's why men run to multinational companies, into the management structures of large companies, and also foreign companies because they are better, far, far better paid for less working time. That is why I propose and I will repeat this and this is relevant to you in replication, we must show right through state-owned companies that we hire more women and that simple management structures first and for the start of state-owned companies must have at least 40% of the management staff or men and women and in such a way in the future achieve what many Western countries already have in the management structures and private companies have equal numbers both men and women.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111551	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111552	Dear colleagues, you spoke of the labour market and in that segment I agree with you. There are also people on the labour market, workers and they become goods. And how can goods be considered free? But what am I interested in in this whole story now? Who calls it today a very large panegyric free market or market, so let's say so. A free market? My little one certainly doesn't. From the British Law on Cereals when the so-called so-called "Curves" began. The free market destroyed everything that was little, progressive, and besides, we're the little ones who used to be progressive. Everything that was small and in Croatia itself is being destroyed in favour of corporations, large capital, banks and profits. And unfortunately, you little one, and that's us, have taken the hoax of free market as something big and something free. Since Chicago school, hundreds have been written here, and perhaps thousands of books for which I don't know which are written about this prank, but it seems to us it's not enough, we probably misinformed or only informed of those who sing go so-called. a free market where there's a slave worker. And a worker shouldn't, and he shouldn't be a slave.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111553	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111554	I agree with you almost completely. In many and much more developed capitalist countries, the social market is being talked about. The fact itself, many books have already been sung about by authors who were once pillars of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, realizing that they are cutting and cutting such a way of managing the branch and the owner of the capital, let alone not work. The point is that everyone receives their salary from whom he and his family can live. I think this government, the Social Democratic Government, has seen that. First of all, we have something that should be apostrophe every day that she had the strength, after all, from the sense of justice and the protection of her own citizens, which is why there is a state to protect them from those, you've mentioned banks that see their only purpose precisely in profit. So that's one way, and a whole series of other measures that I believe and you recognize are small wheels, but they're just talking about it if we're determined not to deal with this situation that we have a free market but that the values of man, his work, are not goods, that we are for the free market but not for the market that all the entire human values will be subject to his law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111555	Goran Beus Richembergh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111556	Fellow Members of Anticevic rightly underlined what the Ombudsman stated in her report, which is this critically small number of fathers who decide on parental leave. However, we must say that we remember the time of the fathers who went on parental leave was not at all. So by putting this in context, we can say that, above all, it is a mental question that, on a conservative matrix, has actually raised a woman for a mother who is then also bound by it, and a father for a protector who must probably go through that old form of hunter and food collectors, so go hunting or taking care of the family's social security. Now we have each other's paradigm, and it may not be in force anymore that conservative patriarchal story, but the socio-economic conditions certainly are. And the fact that women still work on average underpaid jobs and that they are more insecure in that sense, drives many families to a rational approach where a mutual agreement decides that the father remains at work until further notice because his salary is often and twice as high. And that is now one trend that, for economic reasons, in some ways makes emancipation difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111557	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111558	Yes, it is a vicious circle that can be interrupted in such a way that whether a man or woman use parental leave they must use it in the same relationship with the increased amount that another partner has, whether it is a man or a woman. We have a paradox, and I've been fighting it for a long time, and I'm still lonely about women having to go on maternity leave, so women have to go. 28 days ago and they still have to be after that. So that's one commitment. We see that for some politicians it wasn't an obligation. Therefore, not only are women there inequitable with men, but women should always have the option of choice. And I'm going to repeat what you're saying, which is what you're saying, so it's not just a question of equality for the sake of equality, even though it's important and important in itself, but above all, it's in the interests of the child. Here's a colleague Sobol mentioned me earlier, so when there's a divorce a man who didn't care about his own child at all except for making a monetary contribution, when there's a divorce suddenly from equal positions wants to have a child, even if it's still so little. I think the courts take care of it, not only because it's a mother, but because she took care of that child, so most often it's a man with a sudden urge for paternity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111559	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111560	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Anticevic, here it is, in 2015, still somewhere from Klara Cetkin, we were just fighting for our rights and we fought for it. And we fought for such rights that we now do four jobs instead of one job. Today you are saying in your debate that a woman must have a choice and that she cannot express herself in the kitchen. In 2015, I'd say we shouldn't talk like that. If a woman feels that she is in that kitchen and cooking is something she will express herself with and what she can do, it makes her happy, though, let her do it. I admire all mothers who have more than one, I only have one child, and like that, I admire all those who have more. And who among us here, which mother, when she felt that child under her heart, would not do everything for him through that education and through this training of her child in respect of the rights of everyone, means her future wife or her future husband. I think it should be possible for the state, we're already deep in the 21st century to ensure those rights to women that I can, so I'm going to say in a way that's easier to live. So we've seen women who are children with disabilities, unfortunately this law which is part discriminatory as far as the child's allowance is concerned, we've brought it to the Parliament. Why colleagues? It should be easier for a woman, easier for her to have a free choice. If she wants to be a mother, let her be a mother, but in an economic situation, she can be a mother and ten kids and everyone congratulates her and everyone admires her. We don't have to ask all women to be in politics, all women to be managers. Some women express themselves, exactly their own, Here's one sentence, I'm done, yeah. [[Thank you very much.]] It's the women in the farm that can prove themselves on their property. And the more women struggle, the more we do, because we do like I said four jobs and not one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111561	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111562	Well, I don't say anything the opposite of what you're saying is just me standing up for it, and I think you'll agree, that when a man finds out that he's gonna be a father, he's gonna feel the need to be in the house, to take care of the baby while his wife works, too. Why not? Why not? But I'm talking here about the position of women who are often left alone, abandoned by their partner, who doesn't pay or what is due to pay. He doesn't pay support for his own child. These are the difficult fates of mothers, most often women who are left without... And they worked hard, raised children, gave up their careers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are we gonna do about these women? Many countries so come out of this situation that, societies are rich, to recognize a woman or a man's work in the house and that's also one of the exits.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111563	And the Gordana Sobol replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111564	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, so you mentioned during your discussion and the issue of the family law problem. Namely, we have passed a new Family Law here in the Croatian Parliament and I must say the Ombudsman was there, together with her associates she was extremely engaged especially when it came to, so from that domain of the part-round of her office to achieve the same status of marriage and non-marriage communities. Unfortunately, after the Constitutional Court has made a decision as to how it has decided to suspend the suspension of all acts and actions under the family law, the Ombudsman is, in fact, also, because we are asking what it is now, what it has to do with any regulations, possible privileges that have been achieved by the extramarital partners since the date of the adoption of the Family Law, so until the Constitutional Court's decision. Because this was the first time that through Family Law, fully equalized marriages and extramarital communities have been able to achieve certain privileges when we speak, for example. about tax laws and what may be almost and most important is the possibility of adopting children. So I expect, here and I want both in these procedures and in the actions that are going towards the new Family Law proposal or the amendments and the addition of that and the Ombudsman together with all of us to re-associate that these parts of the Family Law are also found in the new Family Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111565	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111566	Thank you, fellow Sobol, for the special apostrophe of these problems. But you see when politics interferes and I don't know who said it often seems to him, one of our colleagues or someone from public life that often the Constitutional Court acts as a political court. I am fully responsible for saying that such a decision which is unprecedented in the constitutional trial, which has no foothold in the Constitution, or the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, is in itself worrying. And it's still alarming that the consequences of what you fellow Sobol are talking about are caused by such a decision. So that is, I will not now speculate or vanity, that it led first and foremost to the return of the Croatian family and the protection of the family in Croatia, regardless of whether it was married or out of wedlock, whether it was with children or without children. And most of the victims are children, especially those who want so much into the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111567	My colleague Nadica Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111568	Thank you, Vice President. Respected attorneys, respected colleagues and colleagues. At first, I commend this report because it is a reflection of both the quality and the productive work of the Ombudsman's Office for Gender Equality, and in my debate I will actually limit myself to only one very specific segment of this report, so to implement the protocol on domestic violence. Why on this particular segment, because I think that violence against women and domestic violence is generally the most dramatic, most difficult form, manifest form of discrimination, gender discrimination, and because there are actually no other major shifts in this area, or they are not enough yet. We often like to say that we have a good legislative framework for domestic violence and personally agree with such a finding. Moreover, I think we're making progress at all times and when I say that, I mean, first of all, improvements in criminal law. I also think that institutions and services responsible for implementing protocols such as police, such as welfare centres, such as health and education institutions, are doing better. There are more problems in the judiciary. However, despite this quality legislative framework, I think that violence is still too much. Family violence happens every day next to us and what's the biggest problem is that eyewitnesses of this violence rarely react to it. So much more often they turn their heads simply with an excuse or under the pretext that it's not their problem, that it's something about family and life in four walls. Obviously, we are not yet sufficiently sensitive to this problem in our environments, and I think there is still a lot to be done to make it. In this context, I think that much greater contributions could be made to gender equality coordinators and the county committee for gender equality as a kind of extended arm of the government's field gender equality office. I think their primary task should right now be to sensitize so that citizens are aware of the harmfulness and consequences of family violence and that for both individual and society as a whole. So the fact is that we have infrastructure, but it's not functional. And something else that particularly bothers me, so there is no connection between the government's already mentioned government office for gender equality and the lawyer's office for gender equality as an institution appointed by the Croatian Parliament. In most counties, co-ordinators are completely unrecognizable, undetectable and logically, the issue of what is important is the existence of a government's office for gender equality when local levels do not recognise its work at all. Who and what exactly are they coordinating? It is similar with gender equality committees operating on a fully voluntary basis, and very often they do not have the financial resources in the county budgets or are the funds of 1000 kuna, as stated in the Ombudsman's report. So their work and results are a matter of pure enthusiasm. On the fingers of one hand, local environments can be counted in which commissions based national policy plans adopted on city councils or in the county assemblies. The Ombudsman's report shows that no meeting on the implementation of the protocol on the conduct of domestic violence has been held in a number of counties. Moreover, meetings related to the problem of individual cases of domestic violence have not been held in any county, and I think it is a huge failure. So the committees should discuss every single case of domestic violence, especially the one with more serious consequences. So these cases should be condemned and the conviction brought to the public. By keeping quiet about violence, we protect the perpetrator. So against domestic violence we should say what I'm convinced of and men because they are more often than women perpetrators of family violence. We should build on this violence and condemn the perpetrators. I think that would actually be a lot more effective than this silence today. I also think that the general story of gender equality would be significantly dynamic, so to achieve much greater effects in a shorter time when men would show more real, not just formal support. Now they're doing it shyly, so I'm going to say it like they're afraid it'll be less men if they help, or if they support women. There is a regular phenomenon that our colleagues come to meetings and stands to discuss issues of gender inequality. That's where they curtously greet us and go. So without their presence, they discuss their ′′ women’s problems, for the hundredth time talking to themselves about what should be done in this regard. How can changes happen when men don't even want to hear about problems, let alone participate in their resolution? Even here in the Croatian Parliament, so the only place where changes can be legally formalized. It is an honor for individuals, conscious colleagues who are here today and listen to this debate and participate actively in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111569	Sonja König, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111570	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Dear colleagues, Jelash, rightly you have apostrophe of domestic violence and called it the most dramatic form of discrimination, as in the report of the esteemed lawyer, 13 women were killed by a male family member in 2014 and the total number of victims of domestic violence was 15981. This number and all world research shows that the family is the most violent social group of modern society except the military, but in wartime. And that number shows that women are threatened by more violence than their partner, than any other person. Over 80% of cases of domestic violence, including the most serious crimes committed by men against women, and women's demand for help depends on a whole series of factors, including trust in institutions. And that state, here we are, this politics and the whole society must actually play its part, because violence against women is not the personal problem of the victim as we have already heard it here many times today and already the social problem and the fundamental cause, but also the result of women's inequality. It should be made clear, as you did in part in your discussion, that violence is a disgrace to the perpetrator rather than to the victims, since in some of our environments, violence against a woman is often seen as actually a disgrace to the victim, or family. We often make a mistake on our own. For example, when marking the Day of Fight against Violence against Women when Women are usually shown, photos of women with bruises Well, instead of photographing the beaten women, they should publish the bullyes, let those heroes be seen. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111571	Nadica Jelesh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111572	I thank my colleagues, König, for your replica. Indeed, family should be the safest place in the world to say so vividly not only for women but especially for children. However, as you said and how you illustrated statistical data, the family is actually the most insecure group. So, I agree completely with you that domestic violence is conditional because in most cases the perpetrators of this violence are men, and I totally agree with you, this is actually an excellent idea related to both the national and international day of fighting violence against women, so not showing photos of beaten women but exactly the opposite, to show photos of abusers, or men who have committed this abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111573	Or a woman if they did. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111574	That's right. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I would also like women who have done so, so that they may be heroes throughout the story. Dear colleague Jelash, that you have touched really one of the most sensitive topics, which is domestic violence. It's something that destroys family, it's something where everyone suffers, no one's happy. This is something that we have good legislation on and the protocol is relatively good, but unfortunately in all segments, this protocol cannot be followed especially in small areas where the police have to come to the door, but the police are coming to their first neighbor. What's he gonna do now? He trusts no one and punishes everything. What I think and I've talked about before is that this education and young people and young women and young men and boys and girls that when someone slaps you, it's not just a slap, it's violence. When someone pushes you, they don't push you. They push you for violence. When someone calls you with a bad word, it's not just a bad word, so it doesn't matter, it's violence. But that education seems to me to have already been spoken here in the House should be code, when both the court and the judges and the judges and all the violence are in place. Which we will accept as violence. Whether we accept this violence only with blue bruises for violence or say what we can't see, and that's some of the mental pains we're carrying, that's psychic violence, that's economic violence. We need to strengthen this family, strengthen the man and the woman. And a man that has a job, that he can make good money, but also a woman that has the ability to work, make money and stand alone, and then we'll be able to be aware in reality that it's not just plum violence, but And we'll be able to fight for it. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111575	Thank you. Nadica Jelesh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111576	Comrade twilight, I fully agree with you. So there are many and indeed different forms of violence today. So it's not just violence when it's obvious by the bruises. It's also psychological today. What's first and foremost economically special is in today's situation when unemployment is growing, when we have this spare labour army that simply isn't employable. Unfortunately, we in Croatia have a huge number of people who will never be able to find employment and it's not good to talk, I don't know, this or that government is guilty of so many and so many unemployed. One figure among these unemployed is simply unemployable. So, in such a situation where we have this high level of unemployment, women are just more dependent, given that they are precisely those who are more unemployed than men, so to a greater extent, and then depend on the reception of men and his will to share money with women. So the hardest thing is really when a woman has to beg for a kuna to say so, to bring the end to the end in everyday situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111577	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111578	I'm glad you're paying really special attention to domestic violence. It was a long road from the affirmation that domestic violence was a major social and political problem, from when only 20 years ago and a few years ago it was still considered to be a private matter between a man and a woman. Even my political engagement, starting him in the city council and affirming this issue, I received from the then and today's authorities who, fortunately, changed their attitude towards it but at the time that Croats did not beat women and that they were enemies of Croatia who talked about it. So that's what I've seen in answer to that. I'm especially glad what you're talking about today, what we're all talking about and what Comrade twilight is talking about. But unfortunately, although legal solutions exist still exist for many men the violent body of a woman is just a polygon to manifest their power. This should, apart from the law, especially by insisting on a large social conviction of such behaviour, but we must also be aware that certain conservative options are in place that make it possible for women to decide on their own body, i.e. their own reproductive health and rights. We can't let that happen. It won't work. And that's something that here should be the absolute consent of all political forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111579	Nadica Jelesh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111580	My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, so domestic violence really is not an internal matter, but a major social problem, and I will take this opportunity to express actually one admiration and one thanks to pioneers, especially in politics, as you have, who have begun to expose these certain negative phenomena and who have contributed to their constant political struggle and engagement to change things for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111581	Vanya Posavac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111582	Thank you. My colleague Jelash, you have encouraged me to reply, given that you have discussed a very important topic and a very big problem, which is domestic violence that is still present. I was particularly encouraged by the replica when you mentioned the role of the coordinator of the Committees on Gender Equality and Committees, and I am still giving my accent and I believe that their role in this problem is extremely important. Unfortunately, a lot of committees and committees at the city level, the county actually doesn't get so much money and indeed these members and committee presidents often do the whole preparation and carry everything on their backs and pay out of their pockets, which of course is not good. I, on this occasion, appeal to all of us and to our attorney general and local administration to enable certain funds because these stands and these conversations, these round tables of domestic violence are extremely important. In fact, you mentioned another problem, which is that there are few people who report or turn their heads. That's a fact. But we have another problem, which is that the situation is happening, so here I know in particular in Bjelovar, that the first neighbor reports domestic violence, but the woman, of course, doesn't want to testify, and that later on, that family and that bully is harassing the neighbor. There's this psychological aid, the legal aid is very, very important. And as for men, yes, unfortunately for most of these stands very few appear and possibly tap, say bravo, yes, here you have support, thumb up. So if we're looking at today's debate in Parliament, actually here's the most again, and we're discussing and replicating the women of the Parliamentarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111583	Nadica Jelesh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111584	Dear colleagues, Vanja, therefore, you spoke about co-ordinators and committees for gender equality at local level, so in municipalities, cities and counties. I pointed out in my debate that their work and their functioning are extremely important. Why does it matter? Because they are precisely in these local environments that act directly in communication with citizens. And it would really be necessary to provide them with funds to work in municipal, urban and county budgets, which is not the case now. And as I said in the debate these committees operate on individual enthusiasm, I'll tell the individual because very few men are in those commissions. As for men, what you said at the end, and you agreed with me in that part of the debate when I said that their support for changes is related to gender equality is most often formal, not essential or real. Yes, even when it comes to violence against women, men often perceive it as a woman’s problem, not their problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111585	My colleagues, Miss twilight, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111586	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here it is, through this whole debate I've been thinking now in an individual what else to say, and then I remembered that I was watching a wonderful show called "Other Format" and he was a philosopher, Rob Riemen, wonderfully speaking in reality about the basics of freedom, and that the foundation of freedom and personal privacy. And that personal privacy gives us all the right to be free in what we want and in what way we want to express ourselves and prove ourselves. I wanted to talk about both young women and the problem of older women, about the media and how the media and how we challenge the media to enter our privacy and how we afterwards struggle to avoid it, and in reality we challenge it. Because he also says well that it's simply in that privacy we've given to be at your disposal. Because then how do you explain who you'll look up to both young and boys, and girls, and young women and young when you see us as politicians and politicians who very often on different facesbooks, I don't know these twitters I have to say here's really stupid. So who cares if I'm cooking charm today, whether it's winter, to whom I write letters, whom I want to humiliate through it all together. And when you see it and who gets the most, look at the men absolutely aren't receptive to it. They answer very much, as I would say neutrally. And then we women are exposed to the fact that when we're spoken of in such a way that we're very surprised and we're looking for some kind of protection. Young girls and young mothers, young parents very often publish pictures of their children and themselves at last in some situations that are absolutely, however, I will not be moralist, but inappropriately pardon. And then what kind of message is that? What kind of message is that? Are we putting ourselves in a position to be told so you deserve someone to call you a bitch? Well, you did, so look what you did? Or vice versa, or a man too. He's less likely to get caught up in this than he's gonna hang us. They'll hang up a little less. And as far as violence is concerned, what is mentioned, and it will certainly be mentioned in the Ombudsman with people with disabilities, is that indeed women with disabilities are less educated, less educated, and much more often exposed to this violence. It's never publicly spoken of, it's not just about women, it's not about their sexual violence, it's not about psychics, it's about economics, it's not about women, it's about men. I'm glad we had back two days now and it's still going on I think this Festival of Equal Opportunities, so that through it can also show what it's about. I very often here in the Parliament say that this termology, however it seems to someone, some MPs told me it doesn't matter how someone is, it's important what someone is called, whether someone with disabilities, because being disabled is something else than being a person. Is a child with developmental difficulties or a child with special needs because we all have some special needs of our own. I'd say we're all with some special needs. So we should talk about it. And what my colleague Anticevic is, and I think we're going to fight, no matter what you think, sometimes we don't have that wide-ranging thinking in HDZ, believe that we have and that our colleagues are extremely us, I have to say respect. This is politics, this isn't, we don't live with them, we don't cook them, we don't bake them cookies, we don't raise their children, and they don't have to treat us like they do to their wives, but as equal colleagues. When it's politics, and you know it yourself, then it's politics, then you don't wonder if I'm Miss twilight and if someone's gonna know me for my wrong word or if I don't know something a little backwards in that party or not. It's politics, I chose it myself, I need to be so aware that I know what I can and can't do. But I must say, our colleagues are very observant. We're not even at our club, and I have to tell you, we've never experienced that way before, one of some humiliating relationships, we haven't. And I'm not defending them right now, and today there's two of us, and there's not all of us in the Parliament together, but we talk a lot about it all the time. And I hope the time comes that and we'll stand up for it, here we really stand at the HDZ club that this job of a woman at home who wants to express herself to be a mother, to be a housewife because she just wants to cook, wants to take care of her children, wants them to have an education, to recognize her status that she can get paid. And that's what she'll be able to get when society gets her. So, this policy, society and government must make sure that it strengthens the family through this family to strengthen not only us women but also men so that they can fight for their rights just as we have already said very well, so instead of one thank God we have five, six jobs. Because while we're sitting here in the Assembly, the kid calls us and asks what he's going to eat, when he's going to eat, is he going to do this or that? If he has a fever, he'll call Mom sooner than he'll call Dad. That's because women are just that our kids came out, I'm not saying happiness is for everyone who's experienced it, and the choice is for every woman to determine what they're going to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111587	Branka Juričev-Martin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111588	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow twilight, you've been talking about violence and today we talk a lot about violence and I think we need to talk about another kind of violence against women. It seems to me that we, as women, too, are slowly skipping. The D.A.'s report says "The victims of prostitution crimes are exclusively women." And in this kind of violence, the lawyer spoke and prayed and suggested that it would be good for the users of sexual services from the criminal sphere to move to criminality, which would also be her position as the Government replied to, and here I am as a woman, and all of us women should appeal to the Government to really decriminalize and provider of sexual services and to consistently sanction the users of these services regardless of the circumstances in which the act was committed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111589	Miss twilight's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111590	I agree with you, dear colleague. Of course it should, it can't be just a guilty woman, and it can't be just a man's fault. But if we say that prostitution is some kind of guilt, that it's selling its own body for survival, let's ask ourselves where our society is, let's ask ourselves what it's really about when a young woman or women of older age unfortunately can't live differently than going there on that corner standing and selling her body. Yeah, but you need to see where society is, which makes society for these women and what makes society finally and for those men. What miles did they come from? It's not just about prostitution like you said, but it's about drugs, it's about the mob, it's about selling, it's about the most difficult forms of crime. But where's the company? What does society do for these people, what does it do, and how?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111591	She is a colleague of Ljiljana Cvetović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111592	Honorable vice president, esteemed attorney. A comprehensive report by the prosecutor on gender equality showed that the trend of increasing the number of complaints was around 11%, which mostly relate to sexual discrimination, with women around 73% complaining the most. Women and girls today enjoy all the legal, ordinary and moral rights as men do, and increasingly more and more examples of women dealing with the most difficult, most dangerous and demanding jobs in the world that were once exclusively men make us think that the age of true equality is about to come. But that's not exactly the situation. Although, by rights, men are exactly the same in practice, especially that social and business situation, they seem pretty bad. The results of the research carried out as part of the first phase of the EU progress of the project called Removing glass maze the equality of opportunities in access to economic decision-making positions show that there is a huge difference in representation between women and men in view of the legal form of society. The representation of women in the management of shareholders in Croatia is 17% and men 83%. If the supervisory boards are being watched, the situation is a little bit better. The share of shares in the company's supervisory boards is 22%, while men are at 78%. Women in limited-response societies are better represented, so women are represented by 32% in the administrations of these societies and on the Supervisory Boards 25. The concern is that women’s representation falls rapidly in companies, which is more market-efficient and more complex in its governance structure. The results show that only 9% of women have succeeded in reaching the position of the president of the administrative bodies, and for the chairman of the supervisory boards, this figure is slightly higher. In the last decade, there has been a trend in increasing highly educated women on the labour market. And although there are a lot of women with the potential for management positions they are in those positions significantly sub-represented. Extensive research has found that the economy and society thrive when women have the same opportunities for active participation in society and politics as men. In general, the more balanced representation of women in decision-making contributes to positive processes of social transformation such as changes in laws, policies, institutions and social norms. In rural areas, women are highly discriminated against. We do not know what these women are dealing with, what problems they have in the local community, and whether they recognize the local community of well-being that these women contribute to with their activists. We do not even know how sensually sensitive these communities' budgets are or how much resources are allocated to initiate the development of women's positions and activities. The crisis and austerity measures have hit women hard and lead them to layoffs, cuts in wages, cuts in public services and fewer resources for the necessary services to support women who are victims of violence. It is important to fight women's discrimination in a systematic and comprehensive way in order to achieve a gradual and real gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111593	Romana Jerkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111594	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the problems you're talking about I believe the roots have, as we could already hear in prejudices and stereotypes on several occasions today. In 2015, these stereotypes and prejudices are still extremely strong in Croatian society. Let me just remind you of a situation that took place last year, and it is related to HRT and a public institution that, under the Media Law, plays a role other than informative, educational role and that it promotes human rights and gender equality and remember last year when, finally, Mrs Tamara Laptoš came to the head of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, as it seems to me, this event was shown to me. Something is said that is absolutely unacceptable, which is discriminatory, which is inappropriate, not specifically suitable for a public institution like HRT. So that's when it was said that Mrs. Laptos was a Chakotay who had no children and who wasn't married and was ideal for the job. So really one unacceptable statement that implies that for this job is in some way a condition that there are no children which is completely contrary to the article, I think 6. A law on gender equality that says, which prohibits discrimination based on marital and family status. So the contribution in some way directly implies that only women who do not have children can successfully do the job. It's completely wrong. We should all go to education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111595	And colleague Rajko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111596	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Attorney with an associate, colleague and colleague. We have a report from the Attorney General for Gender Equality in '14. The year and I will look back on only two things, that is point 3.3., the problem of gender-disphoric persons and point 9.2 of the appeal of conscience regarding women's right to decide on their reproductive health. Introductoryly, I think that the historical division of both Croatia and the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, which was adopted in June, i.e. in July 2012, definitely turned one different direction towards women, partners, men to choice for different parenting than it was before. The Law on Medical Aided Insemination was definitely a historical divide. Ms. Attorney General and her associates have made an incredibly big effort over the past few months, including this year for the problem of gender-disphoric people. So during the '14s but '15s at least three or four times she was at the Ministry of Health and with the National Health Council on two or three occasions. She has been very active in creating normative frameworks, therefore also legal but also sublegal acts so that birth-disphoric persons can finally resolve their legal and medical status. As it says here until the conclusion of this report, the list of experts has not yet been published, that is correct, but it was signed I think five days ago and it may have been published today in the National Journal or it will certainly be published next week, I did not, until two days ago but I know it went to the National Journal and that they received it. So I think that this problem will be resolved very quickly, and at the last meeting of the National Health Council is a representative of the Ombudsman and the representative has also come out with a further proposal for a revision of the rules where the problem could be even better and more explicit, more explicitly solved. Of course we did it all together with the Trans Aid Croatia association which has made a huge effort to solve a problem that, as in the Ombudsman's report yesterday, with persons deprived of liberty who need forensic psychiatry for 25, 30, 40 years. And second, of course, is the right to abortion but also the right to appeal to conscience. So I'm a doctor and, of course, as a doctor, I respect the right to a conscience call. They must not be in collegiate, however, they must be seen through the prism position of both the patient or the patient and the doctor himself and of course this government will definitely respect the current Law on abortion, and it is not in the end her mind to change the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111597	The attorney general's closing statement for gender equality Mrs. Višnja Ljubicic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111598	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I thank you for the fruitful debate, especially thanks to those MPs and MPs who have read, read all the parts of our report that are truly extensive, which have its own accessories, which have full research and each of these research concerns some of our discriminatory bases and some of our areas that have been given to us in the jurisdiction of the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. Today we have had the opportunity to hear really issues that relate to gender discrimination, discrimination especially of women who complain to us and who are victims in 70 to 80% of cases. I wouldn't want to get the impression that this institution is, and that's what I said last year, it deals exclusively with women. We also deal with men, this is an institution for gender equality, we have gained trust in both male and female populations, but of course in our reports other than the sample that we receive in relation to discriminatory practices for women we receive and deal with issues of men to whom discriminatory practice is being conducted on the labour market or when it comes to parental care. We had the opportunity to hear about issues of political participation about the extent to which women participate in our labour market today, to which extent they are sub-represented and whether it is true that they are sub-represented when we have them in some kind of management position both in the labour market and in the local community. I am very happy and I have had the opportunity to see and talk in the districts, municipalities and cities that there are bright examples where we have women in influential positions where they can make decisions both in economic and political life. However, the fact is statistics and indicators at the level of the Republic of Croatia are evident, transparent and they show us that indeed the situation of these bright examples that we have had today is not at national level. If we talk about the governance structure, according to our research, there are 24% of women in high positions in 500 Croatian companies. I must say, if we continue with such a trend of growth, we may be 2050 years old. About the share of women in political participation, from local elections from 2009 to 2013 we had a really mild trend of positive shift. We only have 6% of the chiefs, 7.5% of the mayor, and we don't have a single mayor anymore. The representation of women in representative bodies at local level has been hard-line 17 to 18%, so this is our statistical national reality. Today also mentioned the question I raised in my opening speech regarding the housing of victims of violence, especially when it comes to victims of domestic violence outside the PPDS. This is one measure introduced in the new national strategy for protection against domestic violence in 2011, 2016 where the Ministry of Regional Development and for the European Union's funds is the issue of housing care for victims of domestic violence in only 2011 in 4 cases. After 2011, there was no further movement and a question of their competence for the mentioned problem was raised. At the beginning of this year, this issue entered the authority of the office, central or government office for renovation and housing where we are involved as active participants in the creation of the laws of changes on housing where it is trying to find the moderation that under such housing care enters and victims of domestic violence. I will mention the good practice that the city of Zagreb has been doing for the past few years through its county strategy to protect against domestic violence where it is only in '14. The year was awarded 13 apartments to persons or families who are victims of domestic violence by making rents, i.e. contracts for renting the City of Zagreb with persons who are in such a necessary situation. So that, if it were to be desired and that this example of good practice could be applied to all other counties and with a slightly higher birth sensitivity, it would be taken into account that leaving the circle of domestic violence, shelters are only temporary solutions for 6 months to a year. What's next? In 2/3 of cases, victims return to the violent. In the opening presentation, we touched on issues of parental and maternity leave, especially fathers where statistics in one slight increase are still insufficient if we talk about birth permits for up to 6 months of the child's life that we used in 2014 by fathers less than 1%. All forms of parental compensation were received by men in only 2.2% of cases or if they used parental leave over 6 months to 900 days then it was less than 5% benefiting their fathers. Western practices, Western European practices have found certain positive measures in which fathers can be encouraged to become more involved in equal participation and raising their children. Why? Women because of the fact that they were pregnant, that they used maternity leave for only one child, if it is twins, if it is the second, third or fourth child, they will hardly be able to return to the labour market. We are faced with barriers to the labour market for young women who cannot get a job, who are late based on a working relationship precisely because of this fertility period from 25 to 29 years of age when they want to achieve motherhood, when they are asked about private life, when they are asked about the planning of children and families and who are unfortunately very often declared conditionally old because they are last 40, 45 years after birth, after they are sick, after being pregnant, after having a motherhood, because they are considered burden, weight around the employer's neck and can no longer count on them. That's what our recent research showed. We've been following similar research, similar research shows us a very high pattern of over a thousand and some women in the UK. The first obstacle is the obstacle of age, women are the first obstacle of age, and then motherhood and the achievement of parenthood. How to take on good models in our national legislation may be the opportunity for the Government to take on models in the upcoming changes in fees and parental leave to increase their fathers' parental compensation by as much as 80% of their basics, so their salaries, fees to encourage them to engage in life, parenting, in raising their children and their wives, wives, partners, to equilibrate themselves on the labour market without fear of being able to return if they leave or use the benefits of parental or maternity leave. I failed to say about domestic violence when I was talking about the victims of domestic violence is that what this country fought for in 2003 by passing the Law on protection against domestic violence, that individual cases of violence, domestic abuse are not a private matter and that we are not acting as state institutions, as citizens, as individuals, I don't see, hear, and I don't care. We have advocated that violence and any form of violence is a public matter and, as such, we expect the great role of the state and all its institutions that have been established and which must be synchronised by the basic protocol on the conduct in the case of domestic violence to truly protect the victim and punish clearly, sanction the perpetrator. This is why it is important, and I have noted this, and I am glad that some MPs have recognised the need to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Family Violence, etc. Istanbul conventions signed by the Republic of Croatia. But it is unclear why she did not ratify her when it was done by countries in our environment that have more problems and perhaps less organisation, less institutional organisation than the Republic of Croatia. Montenegro, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia has ratified the Convention and is coordinating its national legislation and institutional mechanisms according to such a binding convention that for the first time says violence against women is conditional, violence is a serious violation of human rights and forms of discrimination against women. Depending on family violence here, it is very well recognised that the movements of stakeholders involved in family violence are seen in the prevention, or closure of this circle of domestic violence by the police, the welfare center. However, we still have questionable action, unsensitised action by judicial officials. I'm talking here most often about the Criminal Courts where unfortunately we get convictions, decisions we've had to analyze that talk about double arrests of the perpetrators and victims, where they're talking about disproportionate penalties, where they're talking about a number of other elements that state bodies as law enforcement would have known that domestic violence or criminality should continue to be conducted under official duty. Often, but that was said here, recognized. I, too, will point out again, victims of violence as well as victims of sexual harassment at the workplace and fear of giving up in the trial itself, giving up the investigation process and the institution of the lawyer. They call for the grace of non-compliance that the judicial system uses as the release of the perpetrator, i.e. the non-processing of the perpetrator from such a form of violence. We also testify that the misdemeanours take an inappropriate length of time. And what I said yesterday at the Assembly Committee on Gender Equality, while the police are proposing up to 15,000 safeguards to which the court may in some way protect the victim, the Criminal Courts apply the Circa 1500, determine or make in their decisions only 1500 to 2000 such safeguards, which means they only adopt 10% of the police bodies' proposals. Still, like all these years, we continue to believe that systematic education of judges, the judge of the Criminal Courts, in which the necessary sensitisation would be carried out towards victims of domestic violence. I expected today, given the research we had, given a number of complaints from citizens and their partners who complained on their behalf, about access to health services, about civil society organisations that sought our intervention, our help, our understanding, about issues that haven't been talked about in public discourse at least in a way, legal way as it is expected for one regulated state. It is the right to call for an abortion that is not a new right in the Republic of Croatia. It's been there since '52. For years, even in the old system, it's been verified through the regulations of '78. A year. A new right to appeal to a conscience that was regulated after '97. years in the Republic of Croatia and we're talking about two rights. Third right, the right of an individual whose right is the weakest because we are talking about a patient, because we are talking about an individual, a private person who is asking for help and who is asking for a service, the care of a public institution. How do you align all rights without any being denied? Of course, if we stick to what's normably defined. It can exist and must be implemented, and must be made available the right to abortion. The right to appeal to a conscience is the right to a limited reach which must have a certain obligation, which is that the right of a patient or a patient of a person seeking assistance in a public institution to allow it in any way to be granted its right not to be denied and that there is no need to seek assistance in another city, in another county or in another country. Today, at the very beginning, some MPs spoke precisely about the issue and the problem followed by the haika, I would also say a call to the lynch, writing a petition for the work of the lawyer's institution for gender equality when she reacted to a portal called the "Klinika for Abortions", which is not. So I was able to say in a short replica the content that can be seen on that page, which is full of unobstructed and incomplete information. On the portal, you can find a finding that a legitimately induced abortion is called a state-of-the-art murder. The use of any type of contraception is claimed to encourage the execution of an increasing number of abortions. It's related to the act of rape, saying a woman has a choice to stand up to a rapist. Directly called for civil disobedience, indirectly even revenge in case of abortion. And the democratic order of the Republic of Croatia is declared invalid. What is at stake on this portal is that the findings that are presented are presented by civil society organisations which, by their organisation and by their legal position, do not have the status of a religious community. These are civil society organisations, and therefore we need to legally distinguish the organizations of believers from religious communities because only religious communities have a contract, have a special law, and have concluded international agreements with the Vatican from which they ensure a certain autonomy of action within the teaching of the religious science of the church. Such rigid attitudes and false information cannot be found in textbooks that we have analyzed where, in the religious contents of Catholic, Orthodox or Muslim churches, they come out of the sciences of the church and in one way lead astray all of those inadmissible advertising and false representations, their misleadingly disguised and deceitful advertising, in fact lead to error or will lead to error by a person looking for the right information regarding the conduct of a legalized abortion. The reactions came about because I am in charge of complaints from citizens and citizens who have pointed out the problem, asked the competent ministries and the competent institutions to check what it is. This was the reason for today's opposition and today's complaints regarding the activities of the Ombudsman's institution when it comes to being called a totalitarian approach towards civil society organisations. Otherwise, cooperation with 59 civil society organisations, associations, institutes, unions that we have worked with for the past year would stand. Finally, I would point out that the issue of gender equality, as I always say, is not a question of women's human rights, it is a matter of much broader importance, and excluding women from any segment of public, economic, political life means that we give up one great social potential, especially if we take care of how highly educated our wife is today. Those who do not understand the question of gender equality feel that the question of equality is that we are all the same. We can't all be the same, we can't all be uniform, but if we could all have equal rights and equal opportunities to achieve the same benefit from our work, it would come into the principle of gender equality, which we decided to promote as a principle and to join the EU at all, into the European Community in 2000. We want to believe and ensure that we are all equal by rights and that the only society that pursues this and in this direction is truly a democratic society and that rights are certainly not diminished if we share them and if together men and women make policies together, they decide on family, public, economic and political rights together. In the economy in developed countries and in profitable companies, this particular combination, not only of gender equality, but of ethnic origin, of education, of other competences, proved to be successful, survived on the labour market, did not go bankrupt and lead to their borders and profitability as well as the satisfaction of their potentials. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111599	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll continue at 3:00. We're going to do another point under number four today. Thank you very much. Session completed in 13.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111600	Attorney General's report on the human rights of persons with mental disorders. No, we've already taken care of that. How to automatically read it. Report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2014. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2014. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 81 votes for, no abstentions, 1 vote against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111601	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate. It is next: - Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2014. The report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the material. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Mr Evelyn Tonkovic is with us on behalf of the proposer of the Deputy Minister of the Interior. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111602	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2014 has been submitted in detail. It is with all indicators and has shown all activities and objectives that have been realised in the field of mine action in the past year. So let me just point out what's most important in a really short summary. On 1st January 2014, the total size of the mine suspected area in the Republic of Croatia was 613.6 km square, spread within 91 cities and municipalities in 12 counties and was marked with 12.868 tags that pointed to the mine danger and possible discovery of unexploded killings. Finally, with that year 31. December 2014, demining and general reconnaissance operations are the size of a mine suspected area for 83.8 km square in space of 10 counties, meaning 2 counties of mana, 79 towns and municipalities, unlike 91 cities and municipalities which were at the beginning of the year, and on 31. December 2014, it was 530.3 km square and was marked with 12.071 markings that pointed to the mine danger and possible discovery of unexploded killings. The National Mine Action Programme of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 established the necessary financial resources of €57.2 million and the reduction of the mine suspected area by 132.5 square kilometers. In 2014, demining operations were financed by the state budget, by investors and donors totalling 289 million 903.328.04 kuna, which is 13% increase compared to the previous year 2013. Despite insufficient financial resources, significant results have been achieved in the anti-mining system in the past year, and yet a number of activities undertaken by the Croatian Mine Action Centre as well as their cooperation and cooperation with other partners in the mine action system have been achieved. The most important indicator of success in 2014 is the largest reduction in mine suspected area since the adoption of the National Mine Action Programme, i.e. In 2009, 83 million 797.356 square metres or mine suspected area was reduced by 13.7% compared to established on 1 January 2014. It should also be pointed out that in 2014 the plan in the section relating to humanitarian demining operations was transferred by 3.2% and humanitarian demining jobs were realised in a larger volume than planned. Furthermore, the implementation of the National Programme also showed a rise in realisation compared to the period 2012-2014 in a way that in 2012, the realisation of the programme itself was 49.9%, while in 2014 it was 63.3%. In particular, it would highlight the settlement of the mine problem entirely in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Virovička-Podravska County of all agricultural areas means the agricultural areas of Vukovar-Srijem County are the majority orna in eastern Croatia and the continuation of the systematic demining of the rolling stock of the forest where the mine suspected area is reduced by 3.8 km square. The reduction of mine suspected area related to agricultural areas was also carried out in other counties. To point out that the financing of demining operations from EU pre-accession IPA funds amounted to €49 million in 2014 and €67888185.42 million was achieved. The very usefulness of the funds that came from EU pre-accession funds used to finance demining operations was higher than planned for 2014 and by almost 40%. The realisation of demining operations during 2014 totalled 3000 349 mine explosives, representing one mine-exploding agent found at every 11 thousand 272 metres square and 5 thousand 333 different unexploded killings. To carry out demining operations at the Croatian Mine Action Centre in early 2014 there were accredited 36 authorised legal persons employed by 609 pyrotechnics and owned 48 demining machines and 20 dogs for the detection of mine explosives and unexploded killings. At the end of December of last year, 40 authorised legal entities were accredited to carry out search and demining operations, meaning four more in which 650 pyrotechnics were employed, meaning 41 more compared to the beginning of the year that owned 55 machines, 7 more for demining and 30 dogs, 10 more. From the data itself, it is evident how humanitarian demining capacity grew in 2014. In January 2014, a formal reorganisation of the Croatian Mine Action Centre was completed, which started in 2013 with the aim of establishing a more rational and efficient model of implementation of the obligations under the responsibility of the centre itself. A planned reduction in the number of employees, together with changes in the mode of work, has also resulted in savings for the work of the centre and what amount has been redeployed for demining operations. During 2014, the Croatian Mine Action Centre co-ordinated a number of activities related to mine danger education and total education of 16 thousand 960 citizens. As a result of quality marking of mine suspected areas and all activities carried out in the field of mines education, the number of mine accidents has been reduced in several past years, including in 2014. Unfortunately, yet get in... On 14 February, a mine accident occurred in the Municipality of Josipdol where an unexploded killing agent, or one 130 mm artillery grenade, was activated at the premises of a former military warehouse in the Ostari, which was marked with the danger marks of two civilians in the collection of secondary metal waste, and unfortunately one of these civilians was killed and the other suffered severe bodily injuries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, it should be said that last year didn't happen any casualties by our pyrotechnics. Here's a short one, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111603	Thank you. We have one replica, Sun Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Tonkovic, you've presented this nicely, in short, however, just a few details. Exactly that there was something more demining than the plan, however, I must say immediately that it was because it was less demanding terrains. What is ahead of us are more demanding terrains, and unfortunately, we will see to what extent the plan can be fulfilled. As for the demining price you didn't mention here, I'll just tell you that it simply leads to an impossible situation for people who have companies, who are working on demining because unfortunately the price of demining per square metre in the Republic of Croatia is somewhat smaller than the cost of cutting grass or planting flower beams in some cities. And that's true, and you can verify that correctly. What's equally impossible to get rid of is VAT on donations. You yourself know because of the VAT rate the reduction in donations and donors rarely give up on the planned funds for this particular purpose because they simply channel their assets to countries where there is no simply donation tax. And I appeal to make sure it's handled in some way. The same will be the problem this year because only in August will we be able to use funds, you mentioned EU funds for last year, but I will tell you that companies dealing with demining are currently working with 60% of their capacity. They usually serve cold drive because people don't have a job in the field, because the late assets we applied for, of course not in time. What we may have failed to do, and I believe that in the future we will, unfortunately, war casualties, or wartime, have created us some added value, which is precisely this kind of industry that we should strongly promote in the markets and be more competitive because we have qualified people for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111605	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Leftist Club Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111606	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy and Mr. Director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, colleagues and colleagues. Well, you know that I was basically the most fierce critic of this particular piece, and now I'm going to go a little differently for a change. I will express my gratitude to CROMAC principally for the co-operation and cooperation related to the demining of one area in Sisak-Moslavina County. It's about rolling woods and it's about the area you remember from the discussions that, unfortunately, until last year, children were practically passing through the minefield to get to school. Thanks to the understanding and engagement of CROMAC, the problem was, at least in this part solved, unfortunately there was no understanding of other structures, so unfortunately, these children are still on foot today, and I guess one day that will change. I will remind you here of my representative question, which was addressed on 29 October 2014, as well as the esteemed deputy and you have said something about it in your opening statement, the reduction of funds or as you have said it with insufficient financial resources is available. I warned that in the first rebalancing of funds by 5.3 million kuna, it was questionable 30 million kunas by the plan provided by the Ministry of Agriculture. The answer I got to tell you is I'm going to say quite unconvincingly convince me that it will still be enough, that it will be resolved in one way or another, that the main problem of demining will be solved and that it will not give up on the plan. But by reading this report, I must admit that I have encountered at least some questionable data. Let's say the general survey realized in 2014 310% more than planned. If there's something 310% more than planned then we've either misplanned or we've used some other method, so we've come up with this calculation. Now, given that we all know or don't all, but this is about us using another method, but not mathematically, but another method on the ground, I'm going to warn you about that debate of ours a while ago, whether this general survey is really the elimination of mine suspected areas, or one day we're going to get into a situation where we're going to find out through someone's human life that there's been a failure. But for the state not to say financially more favourably, no matter how harsh it sounds, it is to sacrifice someone's human life than to pay these companies of pyrotechnicians a full-time job, that is, to make demining fully possible. I don't doubt you as experts, but unfortunately experience shows that the profession can be wrong and that these damages are then immeasurable, or human life can't be restored with anything. This report also states that financial resources are insufficient for this period, i.e. the observed period. I will now mention one area which I was a few days ago, the area of the Municipality of Sunja, is specifically about the village, the place of the trail where people warned me that from the railway line to the Sava area were their agricultural land. It is a purely rural environment where people live mostly from agriculture and if you do not allow them to process their agricultural surface, you have practically denied them the possibility to live on it. That part, unfortunately, can only be realized that for 20 years it has passed that you do not actually give people the opportunity to live off their work. I don't blame anyone, I don't judge anyone, but the fact is that we've set things up maybe a little bit more radically, same as when it was the return of the population, and then we've done everything wonderful and wonderfully nice for them, but a bunch of these people live on agriculture, those following facilities, the agricultural land you didn't give them access to, and then it turns out that we invested money in a crazy way because people didn't come back to those areas. I'm afraid this problem is kind of simply being silenced, pushed aside and not given enough importance. That's why these people don't have a chance to get to the media, point to their problems. Unfortunately, only when they have the opportunity to get to the media is when something tragic happens. And I hope that you will find a way to convince the government in making the budget that this constantly, and we have this case year by year, regardless of which government it is, the constant reduction of the planned funds simply cannot give the result, what we have established in 2019 we will have Croatia without mines. It's the opposite of each other. If some work requires certain means to hire these people, then you can't deny those funds and say it, but it will all be done anyway. It will not be done, or it will not be done, or it will only be written down by paper, which can then ultimately lead to tragic consequences. A colleague in the replica mentioned the same problem I thought was related to VAT on donations. Now we've had a case not long before a whole media debate about the food that comes out of these centers so they can donate to people and get rid of taxes for that part. I don't see why you on your part would at least carry out the initiative towards the competent ministry, the Ministry of Finance, to get rid of this part, because I believe there would then be positive shifts. But I have a few questions to ask. In the media we had opportunities to read the case about the pollution of the area of Krk National Park. Apparently, I'm talking about what was in the media, a solemn confirmation of the demining of the area. In the end, however, it turned out to be not exactly what it said in the certificate. I'm asking if there's any more mine-explosive assets out there. I'm asking a question since it was, at least in the media, a word about donation funds whether it affected relations with a donor, and as far as I can remember, it's about the United States. Whether or not this VAT has also been reflected in the collection of funds in some future period, whether or not it is possible, and not only this VAT is the cause of the reduction of donation funds and whether it is true that it is not the only area where such oversight has occurred. It may precisely be the result of what I was saying that we've changed the way, so now the mass of what we've seen from that percentage is mass-recorded because of the reconnaissance, and then whether it can happen in practice to show that the test is really not reliable enough and that it will then result in a change of law, so that the story is somehow back to the way it is. Here's so much from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111607	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111608	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Novak, you have well concluded that the reduced funds are at the position of the state budget for mine action as well as at the Ministry of Agriculture. Namely, the mine action plan 2009/2019. when Croatia should be clean from mines in 2019, this is certainly the way and at such a pace cannot be achieved, given that 68% of mines or mine suspected areas were cleared in 2014 alone. 68% has been resolved, however, it is not what the UNHCR and the government's Mine Action Office have brought in as planned. And I think we need to correct that plan, too, because it hasn't been achieved. I don't know why it doesn't stick to it, why it didn't react when the state budget didn't provide enough resources, and the plan envisaged how many square kilometers or it took 625.9 km2 to be achieved in 2014 and 426 were achieved in 2014. So, 68% of the plan. It's not quite satisfactory, and it can't follow what it needs to be followed. And it was also due in 2014 to do another one that no agricultural area should be minedly suspicious. It's not done either.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111609	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111610	Thank you very much. Comrade Djakic, honestly, what you say stands. But to me, I'm really in a dilemma whether it's smarter to go with how you said revision of the plan or to adjust it to some pace that's real or to look for ways to hire additional funds, so finally bring that plan in somehow I hope it's not an unrealistic option in 2019 if you would engage additional funds. Because now this constant every year of reductions and reductions and on various grounds sure as hell can't give for, you finally have the effect that this area is really going to be cleared of mines. However, what I have honestly been told is that this new methodology is the write-off of the area. I trust you as experts, but the fact is that in practice here are cases like this from the media that I read. Is that, I'm not asking if that's the consequence? If it is, then we must realize that something is wrong with the procedure itself. And on the other hand, what I point to again, I point to the problem of agricultural land where, where the population is exclusively oriented, it's their existence. He lives off the farmland. I've been specifically to people who say they have 10 blocks of land in that area. Do you know how much this is for a farmer? That's a lot to him. And if he can't do it, and he can't do it for 20 years, then I mean it's a terrible big blow to those people's finances. And after all, people have no easy way of staying in that area. It has consequences on the other hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111611	Thank you, too. Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111612	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Novak, you're completely justified in referring to misplanning and what's been realized. Clearly, no one is against the fact that if this area is safe then it is good, but something you have indicated and what is very important is the matter of planning until 2019 where Croatia should be cleared from mines. And now that we take the 2015 year where it is planned to clear and demine, 53 km clean by general reconnaissance it is about 25% more than in 2014, what the Deputy Minister said because it was about 83.8 km square and clearly that there is a question about certain security whether this area will really be safe or not give God. And this is a good thing that the deputy minister said there was only one accident, and when it came to pyrotechnics that it was a year ago and last year there was no tragedy. And clearly and there's this second question that you've been talking about, and that's the question of whether or not the financial resources are realistically planned. Because as far as I've seen from this data, the total planned funds for 2015 should be 431 million kunas, which is the question of whether it's real and whether it's going to happen and whether the plans will then be made by those that have been drawn, or whether plans should possibly be more realistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111613	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111614	Thank you. So the question arises, speaking of these funds, is the priority question. We obviously have some other priorities, although I honestly don't know how these companies survive or how CROMAC even thinks it's realistic with a constant reduction in the planned funds each year. Look, we can fool ourselves, but this really comes to me like we're lying to ourselves. It can't be that every year we're going to raise less resources and we're going to do the same thing. It can't be, I mean it's physically impossible. On the other hand, look at the page. 11 of this report, said over 310% in 2014. The very fact that if a realisation is 310% compared to a plan then either the plan was wrong or something else. It can't be, I think you're careful that 5% is success, that 20% is perfection, but this is 300%! There's something wrong with that! However you turn something wrong if 310% of the realization is relative to the plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111615	Thank you. Allen Prelec, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111616	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You started out well with your presentation, and you commended CROMAC that you were particularly pleased about your county and your neighborhood. And I think that's good. But later you said you weren't satisfied I don't know the neighbors there someone was unhappy because there's still agricultural land under the mines. It seems to me that if you've read this report, and I think the deputy has also talked about how much has been done on agricultural land, and that's where the emphasis is given. And as far as I know from the 2016 report and plans, as far as I know, Croatia will no longer have agricultural areas under mines in 2016. I will repeat, so this is in the 2016 plan that Croatia will no longer have agricultural areas below mines. And that's what matters most, and here's what we have to keep in mind all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111617	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111618	So, buddy, tell me now that someone has left you for 20 years without a source of reception, would that be normal for you? Well, it's a agricultural area, it's a matter of people dealing exclusively with agriculture. If it was yesterday, it'd be too late. Watch out, that area died in the war, so now after the war another 20 years. For 20 years, he can't get to something that creates his existence for his family. Well, that doesn't go down on this one, that goes on forever. The fact is, we obviously didn't know how to set priorities. It can't be that of someone, and then we wonder there in that area of emigration which in Germany, which in Austria, Canada, I don't know where I don't know everything. Well, I guess there's nothing left to move from there. But it's a causal relationship. And it's not an apparition now, I don't know, I don't call the principal or the deputy, but I find the situation simply abnormal. You can't put off something for 20 years and say look, but next year's gonna be better. So try to be lifeless for 20 years. It's not working!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111619	Thank you. Sun Head, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Novak, we're all about the same thing. Mr. Deputy gave us the condition he is, didn't give his personal opinion whether he's okay or not, and it better not be because unfortunately the figures point to what we're saying. I understand your concern because for years we've been talking about areas that need to be put into economic function, and you've talked about something here that we can say is an existential question for some people who can't reach their agricultural surfaces. That is exactly what this is all about, so according to the mine action plan 2014, the year was supposed to be the year in which, according to the plan, the mine risk would be completely removed from the agricultural areas. So we want to admit it or not according to plan we're late, so we can't be satisfied when it's 2016. The plan, I repeat it again, either needs to be revised or a new plan needs to be developed. The second thing that is happening, according to the report, or according to the plan, should be for such capacity as they predicted or for such dynamics about 1000 pyrotechnicians. According to available data, 45 companies with 647 pyrotechnics are currently working in Croatia. So we definitely don't have any initial human capacities to achieve the plotted plan. What else is going on? 30% of the companies closed down, so they worked on demining operations, but they opened new ones, but not with the same owners but with the same people and somewhere with the same machines. I'm not talking about dogs because there are fewer existing companies. Mostly with the same people and the same machines. So, the companies that closed down remained in debt to the state, workers, etc. I think it's a reality, and this is what people who work on demining jobs warn about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111621	Thank you. Thanks. Time's up, fellas. Hey, buddy Novak's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111622	I agree with most of what you said, but you might point to something in the plan. It is planned from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development of 229,5 million. Is it really going to be realized, are we going to have some information that the system has fallen again, that the applications are not adequate and adapted to the needs, are we going to have the fact again that CROMAC and others in that branch have to make peace with this being gone and adapt to something that is impossible and that dynamics remain the same or planned again? I'd like to hear and show the deputy's point of view on this very matter in view of the experience we have and we all don't remember it long ago, our main problem was some informational apps that weren't operational, so we didn't withdraw any significant funds or we were late, but we get there.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111623	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Boris Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111624	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Director. After the Homeland War, the Republic of Croatia faced a problem of lagging mines and various unexploded resources on the surface of about 10% of the land. Out of 21 counties, 14 counties were mined or contaminated, and therefore traffic and economics were also paralyzed. The operations of demining vital infrastructure were primarily carried out by civil protection, so special units of the MUP and engineering units of the Croatian Army. It was a temporary and complex situation of mine action, but it was a serious challenge for the government of the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Over time, it systematically enables the momentum of recovery of development, thus exploiting the severe mine pollution disaster as a chance to develop primarily the economy. Since 1996, the law has regulated mine action and a state-owned company AKD MUNGOS has been established in which the first experience in the organisation and implementation of humanitarian demining has been gained. In time, demining becomes a private job. After 10 years of demining on market grounds, a large area of land has been cleared, the causes of economic failure have been removed, organisational, humanitarian, international, economic and other mine activities have been raised to a significantly higher level. The Republic of Croatia is an active participant and party to all major international arms and disarmament control agreements which the Convention prohibiting use, creating supplies, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and destroying them, or a convention on causative ammunition, whose provisions, inter alia, govern and cooperate in the area of assistance for victims of explosives and means of delivery and assistance. The plan is in line with the strategic plan of the Ministry of Interior and other institutions in the capacity of protection and rescue for the period 2014-2016, and concerns the reduction of land pollution by mines and explosives in proportion to the financial appropriations granted and additionally secured for 2014. The plan was developed by the Croatian Mine Action Centre. The aim is to remove the mine risk from the Republic of Croatia by 2019. And now there is another very important observation in the footnote "In the period of the 2009-2019 programme in order to fully remove mine threat from the Republic of Croatia, a reduction in mine suspected area of 954.5 km square km was planned. To carry out these jobs, it is necessary to secure 4 billion kunas from all sources of co-financing." The plan is the second objective, reflecting the marking of mine suspected areas in all phases of mine problem resolution. Thirdly, the development and implementation of the education programme of the entire population who lives or works in the environment of a mine suspected area or is gravitating the same. The fourth one continued to provide care and rehabilitation including psychosocial rehabilitation, economic reintegration of all mine victims. Fifth positioning and promoting the Croatian mine action system in the international community. In the humanitarian demining system, existing resources are being used irrationally, and a large percentage of excluded areas from mine suspected surfaces are again included in the mine suspected area, resulting in an increase in costs and an extension of demining time as well as a lack of security excluded area from mine suspected areas for end-users. The derogation from the planned to realised demining area from 2009-2014 is seen. Despite the activities and savings carried out in the system referred to in the annual report on the implementation of humanitarian demining plans, greater realisations than planned at the annual level have been recorded, especially in the last two years. In line with everything analysed in the observed period 2009-2014, insufficient financial resources are the fundamental reason for the failure of the programme in the part relating to the planned reduction in size, which also means the dynamics of the implementation of priorities as well as the planned time of implementation of the programme are prolonged. Other strategic objectives have been fully implemented under the programme planned. On 1st January 2014, the total size of the mine suspected area in the Republic of Croatia was 613.6 km square, placed within 91 cities and municipalities in 12 counties and marked with 12.868 tags that pointed to the mine danger and possible discovery of unexploded killings. General reconnaissance in order to produce project documentation and update mine suspected areas, and by... technical reconnaissance through 120 reconnaissances reduced the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia by 46 million 48 thousand 489 square meters. The implementation of demining and general reconnaissance in 2014 eliminates the risk of mine explosives and unexploded killings from an area of 83 million 797 thousand 356 square meters in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the above mentioned size of mine suspected areas in the Republic of Croatia on 31 December 2014 it amounts to 530.2 km square. The humanitarian demining plan for 2014 relating to demining, and according to approved and secured financial resources, has been transferred by 3.2%. In 2014, the financing of demining operations from EU pre-accession funds totalling €49 million was planned, with 67 million 880 thousand 185.42 kuna being used by EU pre-accession funds used to finance demining operations being higher than planned for 2014 and by almost 40%, and this should be particularly highlighted and particularly welcomed. In January 2014, a formal organisation of the Croatian Mine Action Centre was completed, which started in 2013 with the aim of establishing a more rational and efficient model of implementation of the obligations of the Centre. In accordance with the organisation organisation carried out in the second half of 2013, the redefined territorial and actual competence of the central branch as well as the way in which the scope of the reconnaissance and design was carried out so that 7 areas with clearly established holders and responsibilities for each area were formed. Also, since the beginning of 2014, the legal possibility of carrying out and technical survey has been systematically used, which is largely the result of the changeover of the plan in the scope of the reconnaissance and the quality of the design of the search and demining projects. The purpose of mine action is not only demining the polluted area and removing the impact of this problem on people but ultimately exploiting the crisis for its own benefit. going to the world market of special products in this area. In addition to a major reduction in mine suspected space, the number of mine incidents and mine victims has been reduced, as well as the release of a mine cluster of companies to the world market. Today, the Republic of Croatia has been observed in the world of humanitarian demining according to achieved results and advanced demining technology. Experience, knowledge, skills and equipment are being built into the global problem of mine removal. The anti-thumin crisis should be used as a chance for the development and gradual return of invested forces and demining funds. Croatia is 3rd in Cambodia, BiH by land mines per square metre in the war area. There are numerous civilian injuries especially to children around the world as a result of the explosion of landmines from racial wars. In total, from '91 to 31 December 2014 in 1354 mine incidents and accidents, 511 people were killed in 1978. There are numerous actions at the level of the countries affected by mines, but also globally where funds are being collected to remove the leftover mines and where the terrible consequences of the explosion of the mines are indicated. A world-renowned initiative and the deceased British princess Diana is related to the ban and use and removal of anti-walking mines. Every war leaves a lot of ugly consequences. Apart from the dead, the wounded and the terrible destruction in Croatia remained numerous mines. And with the help of the international community, donations from individuals, but also from the whole country, Croatia is systematically dealing with the remaining killing mines, and therefore thanks from this stage to all individuals and businesses, especially the US government, the Principalina Monaco and the EU for all aids they have given to demining Croatia. Hoping that this report will help address the problem of mined areas in the Croatian HNS club, the liberal Democrats will also accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111625	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111626	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Blazekovic, I wanted to replicate for two things. First, when we talk about the dynamics of humanitarian demining in the Republic of Croatia especially in the period 2009-2014, it may not be a burning point to stress that the biggest sub-dubation on the very surface means the area that has been demined, the biggest sub-dubation reached in 2009, 2010, 2011. So just now, in the last few years, we've actually been trying to establish some normal dynamics that should have been going on. And the other thing that made me decide to replicate to you and what you mentioned actually in the follow-up of my presentation, which is that excellent cooperation with the Central Agency for the Financing and Negotiation of the European Union Programmes and Projects resulted in almost 40% of the demining transactions in the pre-accession fund still being part of component 1 compared to those planned. But what I would further point out is that precisely the work of the Office for Mine Action of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has created the conditions for demining operations to be considered a horizontal measure within the operational programme for competitiveness and cohesion, which means that they are an acceptable cost as one of the activities of projects that will take place on areas that are minely suspicious and belong to protected areas and areas within the Natura 2000 network, which, for example, has a lot of forest-covered areas in Osijek-Baranja County but still. We therefore also create the conditions for us to also finance and help address this difficult problem from alternative sources, i.e. from the European Union funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111627	Thank you. Answer, colleague Blazekovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111628	Thank you very much, so I would like to agree with you fellow Highdukovic. It's about really giving credit to the Mine Action Centre and all of the government's efforts from all the ministries involved, which are exactly what's written in the very report that's about this really huge problem that's unbearable but it's present and it's about to be solved and I think that in this context we can be satisfied that this government is really doing better than it was before.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111629	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111630	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to replicate my colleague Blazekovic, but after what you said, I had to, and especially after you read it, here's my report. It is well known that Croatia has not recently been in Europe’s mine maps, i.e. the funds could not be used. And we were really getting on in Brussels, just us from the HDSSB to provide Croatia with the possibility of using European funds, and that's where we got some funding. We're particularly proud of the one in Baranja, the part with the Hungarian border that we mined, and we think it's a good example. I don't think HCZR, but I don't think there's enough resources, and by 2019 we won't be able to demining Croatia. But listening to you as this government is doing wonderfully and in fact we don't have any money, so looking at the donations and how much it spends on the team and just today the letter that we got from Zoran Milanovic that spent it all on the cards, which was spent on the team, I think you would already demining Croatia just by looking at this memo that arrived today in response to Mr Jasen Mesic. Therefore, I think it would be much more useful if the Croatian government and the rest of the ministries spent less on cards, the national team and directed those funds precisely to demining, because these people are killing us, we're losing a lot of people. But also our surfaces, especially in Slavonia and Baranja, have been poorly exploited because of these mine suspected spaces. It is therefore essential to target the funds to be completed by 2019. We can commend certain actions that were. On this memo, when we look at it, we can only express dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111631	Thank you. Answer, colleague Blazekovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111632	Thank you very much. Well, it's always possible to use every topic to attack this government, on any basis. It really doesn't matter how much the government spent on cards and convinced with, and you'll surely convince me that the government's spending on these cards and the team's doing it for a specific and justified purpose. As for the work of the centre itself and the entire demining process in Croatia and the collection of money from the European Funds, I will repeat the fact that this is really verifiable because in 2014 the use of pre-accession funds from the European Union is 40% higher. And that's one elemental fact, I still have nothing to say. And as for the work of this government, as far as spending is concerned, if we really start to analyze now and we're going to analyze, then this government is incomparably, absolutely incomparably more efficient than any government so far, according to all possible parameters and basics. Absolutely according to all possible parameters and basics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111633	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP Representative Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111634	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, Director. So this report shows that, despite insufficient financial resources, significant results have been achieved in the mine action system in 2014. Such results are the result of a series of activities undertaken by HCZR as well as cooperation for all partners in the mine action system. The most obvious indicators of success are the largest reduction in mine suspected areas, namely the adoption of a programme of 83 million square meters, i.e. mine suspected areas was reduced by 13.7% compared to established on 1 January 2014. In 2014, the mine suspected area was reduced by 11 million square meters more than in 2013 in which the mine suspected area was reduced by 71 million m2. The above fact also adds that in 2014 the plan in the section relating to humanitarian demining operations was transferred by 3.2%, which means that humanitarian demining operations were realised in terms of larger than planned. If we compare the results with the 2013 results, they show that in 2014 17% more surfaces were demined, and the general reconnaissance of mine suspected areas decreased by 46 million m2 which is 16% more than achieved in 2013. The success of carrying out activities on the implementation of the plan also shows that mine suspected areas extend within 12 counties and 91 cities and municipalities on 1 January 2014 and that the number ends with 31 December 2014 is 10 counties, the mine risk has been completely removed in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Virovitic County and 79 cities and municipalities. I'll just point out that in 2013, there were 12 counties with mines. In 2014 it was reduced by 2 counties, and as far as I know as planned for 2015 there will be 2 more counties. This significantly increased the safety of citizens, their lives and property, but the preconditions for the economic development of the areas that were marked mine-suspecting at the beginning of 2014. As a result of quality marking of mine suspected areas, as well as all activities carried out in the field of mines education, the number of mine accidents has been reduced in several past years, including 2014. To note only that in 2014 we had meaning two mine incidents with one fatal consequence unfortunately. In this 2015, there was only one incident without fatalities. In 2014, intensive cooperation was conducted with all counties with mine problem and with a large number of local self-government units. All aspects of mine action and mine action priorities have been discussed in joint co-ordination with the counties. During the year, co-operation was established with the Ministry of Defence in several affairs, of which it is particularly worth the prominent signing of a data exchange agreement or the demining of military facilities and a joint performance in the handover of military facilities to the State Office for State Property Management. Excellent co-operation with the Central Agency for the financing and negotiation of European Union programmes and projects has resulted in almost 40% more demining transactions from the pre-accession IPA component and from the planned ones. During 2014, in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Mine Action Office, it was successfully launched with the preparation of several projects planned to finance the European Union's funding from the financial perspective of 2014-2020. The work of the Office for Mine Action of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also created the conditions for demining operations to be considered a horizontal measure within the operational programme for competitiveness and cohesion, which means that they are an acceptable cost as one of the activities of projects that will take place on areas that are suspected of mines. In January 2014 the formal reorganisation of the Croatian Mine Action Centre started in 2013 with the aim of establishing a more rational and efficient model of implementation of the obligations under the centre's competence was completed. In accordance with the reorganisation of the structure carried out in the second half of 2013, 7 areas with clearly defined holders and responsibilities for each area were redefined in 2014, as well as the way in which general survey and design was carried out. Also, since the beginning of 2014, there has been a systematic use of the legal possibility of carrying out and technical reconnaissance, which has resulted to the greatest extent in the transfer of the plan in the part of the performance of the general survey and in the quality of the ideological search and demining projects. This is also followed by a planned reduction in the number of employees and subsistence staff in the Croatian Mine Action Centre started as early as 2013. On 1 January 2013, 150 employees were employed. On 1 January 2014, 135, and on 31 December 2014, 126 employees. In this regard, I have recently read in the press that in the ministry and state administrations over the past three years the number of employees has been reduced by 2420 people. It doesn't matter about demining, but it's nice to hear, and we don't hear much about that kind of thing. Complete reorganisation, reduced number of employees, as well as changes in the mode of operation of the Croatian Mine Action Centre resulted in significant savings from financial resources intended for the operation and functioning of the centre. Of the planned 39 million kunas at the position of the state budget, governance and administration, 31 million 815 thousand kunas were spent. 7 million and 421 thousand kunas less than planned, and this amount has been fully redeployed for demining operations. All of these resulted in the fact that the Croatian Mine Action Centre in 2014 with a minimum number of employees and the minimum amount spent on working and functioning since the programme was adopted, managed and implemented activities that led to the maximum reduction of mine suspected areas at the annual level since the programme was adopted. Here is clear, bravo for the director of Mr. Jakopec Drazen, but also his assistants. Just something in numbers, here's what startled me when I multiplied how much money was spent and how many mines were found and how many m2 was demined. It takes 10,000 euros for 11272 m2 and 1 min is found there, on average I speak clearly. I will repeat this so that we can all really hear, so for 11272 m2 it was found on average 1 min and it costs 10,000 euros. And we know how long it takes to put a mine in the ground. I don't know what it costs three or five or ten euros or maybe 50 euros, I don't know. We're lucky we don't know those prices. Clearly, the most expensive life is and we shouldn't be talking about it being expensive, but I just want to indicate how much it really is in these, so I'd say clearly 20 years, and thanks to the previous government today, and Mr. Novak, colleague Novak said he wasn't happy with the dynamics. We're not all certainly satisfied with the dynamics of demining, but I think significant things have been done, here in the last three years under here's the directorship of the new director and that we can be satisfied. And what happened happened happened. What I'd like to point out is that we haven't had a mine strike lately, or we know it was before, the Munos were on strike, everyone was on strike. Why is that happening? I believe that's because here we have a truly recognizable policy, paid in time. So people working on demining jobs are happy with work, seeing their chance at it all together. And I think that's an important, important reason why we don't actually have unsatisfactory mines. And lately, there's been no luck or people who get hurt in these jobs. These positive examples should be constantly mentioned, and I would also mention that with the humanitarian demining plan for 2015, the mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia will be reduced by 104 square kilometers, or 20%, compared to the initial situation of 1 January 2015 when it was 530 square kilometers. Here is the occasion of a contract signed in Vukovar-Srijem County to continue work on the demining system di is an amount of 80 million kuna. Most of these funds are secured from the state budget, and this is 60 million kuna from the Croatian budget, and 20 million kuna from the Croatian Forests' funds. So let's commend the Croatian forests that are here significantly involved in the demining of Croatia, with that here, that's what we're talking about for 2015. And in 2014 they participated with 29 million kuna. I think it is also important to mention all those who really participated in this not only Croatian forests, and I will mention some more if we can read it from this report. On page 30, we only have a second here, so here I can't find the right side, but in any case I know that the Croatian Telecom participated, that it participated in a full range of companies in Croatia that made a significant contribution to demining. Here is the Croatian forest with 29 million kuna in 2014, HZ Infrastructure with 3 million and 577 thousand kuna, Croatia waters with 2 million and 930 thousand kuna and HOPS d.o.o. A million and 497 thousand kuna. These are the means of investors, and the donors HEP with a million and 990 thousand kuna, Croatia's lottery with a million and 449 thousand kuna, etc. There's a lot of them. And another thing I'd like to suggest, which is commendable, it's demining without compensation. In 2014 six contracts were implemented which allowed demining persons to demining a total of 255,000 square metres without compensation. In particular, demining should be highlighted according to the project called the entire mine suspected areas in the municipality of Gunja floor area 162000 m2 which, after last year's floods in eastern Slavonia, included 36 demining authorised persons who decided to do the whole project without compensation. Well, good for them. And finally, here we are talking today about mine problems, about mine action in the Republic of Croatia, we can argue that a major and visible shift has been made in solving this particular problem that the Republic of Croatia is facing in progress, especially after the Homeland War. The Republic of Croatia today is safe from mine danger on all parts spotless, pardon. The Republic of Croatia today is safe from mine danger in all parts of the transport infrastructure, tourist destinations, areas of restoration, gardens and areas around the facilities of social use, and we heard that next year the entire agricultural area will be mineless. The government of the Republic of Croatia recognized the mine problem as a security, economic and environmental problem from the very beginning and confirmed this in all key components of mine action primarily by ensuring stable sources of funding in the state budget, loans from the World Bank and public enterprises of the Republic of Croatia, EU funds and good and transparent relations with the international donor community and donors in the country. The SDP club will be in favour of accepting such a report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111635	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. Boris Blazekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111636	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Prelec, first of all, I would like to look again at the donations and thank all those outside the Republic of Croatia who are participating in these donations and who are helping us help Croatia free from this evil, these mines. These are primarily EU citizens, i.e. EU citizens. It's certainly the U.S. government and it's the Principality of Monaco. One thing I haven't been able to answer in a replica, which I haven't mentioned in my debate, and I think it's extremely important because the number of mine deaths has been mentioned lately, at least ever. The number of mines killed in 2012 was 3, in 2013. 1st and 2014th Two people. It's a lot, every life is that we keep saying irreparable, it's a lot, but at least ever. And in 2013 and 2014, no pyrotechnics were killed by a mine incident.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111637	Thank you. Next replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111638	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, I actually wanted to underline just something you said and what I'm going to say in my individual debate. In addition to reducing mine suspected areas, you mentioned that the Croatian Mine Action Centre also implemented internal reorganisation. This resulted in the fact that CROMAC in the year in question, meaning 2014, with a minimum number of employees and a minimum amount spent on functioning since the adoption of the national programme, managed and implemented activities that led to the maximum reduction of mine suspected areas at the annual level since the adoption of the programme. In my view, this is only proof that good work organisation and more efficient work organisation can achieve results and certainly congratulate the director on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111639	Thank you. And the last replica, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111640	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Prelec, in a series of salva praises and praises, has gone beyond what is true and true, the plan has not been implemented. The plan was not implemented and the plan that was adopted must have found a way to implement it. According to this report, the mine suspected area was reduced by 426 km square, 68% compared to the programme planned. Demining operations are realised on a surface of 197,9 km square, which is 59% compared to planned. And the general survey resulted in a decrease in the area of 227,9 km square, which is 70% compared to planned. So, the plan that was to be adopted and realised had no material and financial support to be realized. Despite the efforts of the Croatian Centre and all participants, all companies and their opportunities without money are impossible to realise the plan. The plan is either to revise or provide additional resources and that is the only truth. What causes damage to the Republic of Croatia is also 15.4% of the mine suspected area that cannot function in agriculture. Agriculture is a branch that certainly provides food for the Croatian market and should not be imported if we solve the mine suspected area of 15.4% as soon as possible. So, with all the praise for working the plan, none of the segments that were given were realised. And you have to agree with that, it's in the report, and you can't avoid it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111641	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111642	Maybe the plan was too ambitious but if you look at page 5, and I'm talking about facts now, on page 5 of the chart, which shows from 2009 to 2015 the realisation of the plan and what has really been done then you'll see that only in 2014 and 2015 is almost consistent with plan and realization. It's the most important thing in all of that together. I agree, no, do not look at my colleague Djakic on page 5. So you will see in 2015 that the plan and the realization match. That's the most important thing. Maybe we wanted to demine more than we really could but the fact that here it is in 2015 will be a plan and a realization of the same. And not to mention that here in 2014 we had 83.8 km square, and in 2009 62. So, in any case, it was more demining in 2014 than in any year before. These are facts, it says, here you can look at the chart.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111643	Thank you. The club of Independent Representatives, Damir Cain? He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Ivan Shantek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111644	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Deputy Minister, the Honored Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a regular report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2014 which is addressed to the Assembly for discussion and adoption. One of the objectives of the report is to encourage activities to create conditions to address the mine problem fully in accordance with the conventions signed by 1 March 2019. The basis for the 2014 humanitarian demining plan report was adopted by the Government at its session held in March 2014. As we know, the National Mine Action Programme is a strategic document adopted by the Croatian Parliament in September 2009 which should be handled by all competent state institutions. The implementation period from 2009 to 2014 planned to carry out the largest number of jobs compared to the total planned programme, which required the provision of the maximum amount of financial resources compared to the total planned. The mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia was to be reduced by 625.9 km square km, two-thirds of the total initial mine suspected area of 2009 which was to be secured by 2 billion and 746 million kuna. During this period, which has been identified as highly planned is the full demining of the gardens of populated houses, infrastructure facilities and oranica, and over 60% of the economic forests and more than half of the remaining agricultural areas. Unfortunately, we see from the report that this programme has not been fully implemented. In the observed period 2009-2014, the national programme established a reduction in the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia by 625, should have been 625.9 kilometers but was realised or reduced by 426 kilometers and 68% respectively. In total, only 1 billion and 697 million kuna and 62% were secured in that period. The analysis of the implementation of the programme in 2009-2014 makes it clear that in the six-year period only in the first year of implementation, the reduction of mine suspected areas was in line with the programme and all other annual realizations were reduced compared to that programme, which is visible from these diagrams that we received in this report. As far as our report is concerned, it's quite well-assembled but we've tried to find out and answer some of the questions that we think are important. It is known that Croatia as a member of the EU has expressed its readiness to join the Schengen state border control regime as an EU border. We were interested in the HDZ Club to what extent is the demining area along the state border? So we found some interesting data in the report. So, for example. We find that in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Virovitica-Podravska County, the threat of mines has been completely removed but the share of Sisak-Moslavina County is not. The table on page 50 reads in point 64 "The roads along the border belt of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the municipality of Dvor source of funding for the state budget. 0 meters square search, 0 meters square demining, 0". The plan is also not realised in the table for the Goose municipality, which should include a border police station, which is equally visible on page 25 of the report. So the logical question is, isn't it important for the security of the state border and access to the Schengen regime, for the border control to be demined? Speaking of the table, page 50 under point 71 states that the third part of the Kotar forest area is demined on the basis of the donated funds, which is the smallest area mentioned throughout the report. Here's why I'm asking that? Because I just don't understand what this is about? Otherwise the demining surfaces are numbered in thousands of square meters, this is about 60 meters. So I'm wondering why that is? If it is an increase in the safety of people living in the area, and there were victims both among the population and among the pyrotechnicians, then it is certainly justified, but it should certainly be explained why the whole procedure was carried out for such a small area? It is commendable that in 2014 there were no casualties among pyrotechnicians but there were casualties among the population. Despite the CROMAC’s education in the area, there was a fatal injury and a severe wound in the collection of secondary raw materials in the district of Josipdol. Unfortunately, in February of this year when demining, a pyrotechnician was severely injured so that 20 years after the war, the victims were still numbered. It is also good to mention in this report the price paid by the Republic of Croatia to human lives and serious people's losses from mines and other explosives, and thus the importance of implementing the demining plan for the Republic of Croatia. According to this report, from the end of the Homeland War and from 30.6.1996 to the end of 2014, 347 incidents and accidents involving a total of 486 people were killed. 163 people were killed, 220 people were injured while 103 were injured by minor physical injuries. We see from the report that the Croatian Mine Action Centre has actively engaged in the implementation of mine victims' assistance as well as international cooperation and activities of Croatian knowledge and technology from mine action abroad have been continuously implemented. To welcome the fact that the Croatian Mine Action Centre and other mine action entities have carried out numerous activities towards the international anti-mining community, the diplomatic representations of the Republic of Croatia and the representatives of the donor countries. We see that numerous foreign delegations, ambassadors and representatives of foreign countries have shown interest in mine action in the Republic of Croatia and their countries donated funds and thank them for that. Because their donations have raised around 9 million kuna, but it is clear that we cannot rely on donations but on EU funds. The report rightly puts particular emphasis on insufficient financial resources as a fundamental problem in the implementation of a defined programme in the work relating to the planned reduction in the size of the mine suspected area, which would include the dynamics of the implementation of priorities as well as the planned time of implementation of the same prolonging. In 2014 demining operations financed funds from the state budget, investors and donors. The total amount of 280 million kuna is up 13% compared to 2013. But as we've seen from those diagrams, it's still a long way from those planned funds that were planned. The problem of paying VAT on donations is also highlighted because, due to this obligation, some donors, in particular, give up donations for demining operations, and here we have seen that in some cases CROMAC has taken over the obligation to pay VAT on donations. Although the report detects problems such as the problem of insufficient financial resources, the problem of paying VAT on donations, irregularities and unquality work of authorised legal persons is a problem. The report does not recommend how these problems solve what makes the report missing in our court. Therefore, the report does not offer the possibility of obtaining full information on humanitarian demining, which is necessary in order to make a decision on the further action of policymaking and to find a solution to identified problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111645	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Shantek, I'll just remind you if you and your colleague Djakić forgot that this plan was adopted by the HDZ government in 2009, and when you say it's detaching from the plan then you must know that in 2014 this government and this director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre in 2014 made demining the area from 83 square km which has never been made since 2009. So we have achieved our goals, but according to your plan, which were far more ambitious than the real money was. In 2015, the plan was 104.5 square km. In all likelihood, we will realise this as it has never been realised so far with the help of European funds. That's what I'd say and quite certain for this year. So this is never how a good demining situation happened, which clearly we have to say we're not quite satisfied but these are facts. You've come up with such an ambitious plan, and we're fulfilling it as much as possible in financial means.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111647	Thank you. My colleague Shantek's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111648	A respected colleague, of course, that plans must be ambitious, and if a derogation occurs, it's not something tragic. However, the question to what extent a derogation arises. You are here this is now the 4th year, and only when the EU funds began to arrive were these lines beginning to match. Until then, there was no sufficient funds in the demining budget, so it didn't matter to you. But here it has now become important because of the election year or because of the arrival of EU funds. And if your plans were not good, then why did you not change them? Finally, CROMAC realized according to a programme brought by the government at its session. She had these ambitious plans. If they were too ambitious, they had to correct them, and they didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111649	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111650	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, Director of the Centre, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the debate that used to serve me as a good clagworth and the introduction to the debate that it's interesting that the plans that are ambitious are critical of those who bring them, and they knew that they were ambitious when they brought them in. I think he's smart enough. So what is the point at all when we are discussing this report on humanitarian demining, I don't think anyone has mentioned it since the speakers, namely the purpose of establishing the activities and objectives that have been realised in the year in question, and that we can therefore plan further or see where we are, how we stand and what we are. I think this report is more than showing that CROMAC is up to the job of doing well from more examples that my colleagues have set before me, but let me quote some of them myself. So that final goal would be to solve our mine problem in the Republic of Croatia by the 1st of March 2019. If that doesn't work out, I'd be happy to solve it in a year or two after that, but finally solve it. The total size of mine suspected areas at 1.1.2014 included 12 counties and 91 cities and municipalities. After 12 months, so 31.12.2014., it covered 10 counties and 79 cities and municipalities. I think that's the information we can be extremely happy with. The municipality per municipality, the county per county, is shrinking and it is certainly commendable. As mentioned earlier, the mine threat has been completely removed in two counties of Virovitica-Podravska, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and I hope that we will be able to conclude here for the year that some other counties are completely free from mine threat. But how did the demining plan go during this case mean 2014? As previously said in 2009, the National Mine Action Programme was adopted, and the aim was to reduce mine suspected areas for what counterpart Shantek said 625.9 km square and 2/3 of the initial state of play with funds, so the assessment was that it would cost 2 billion and 746 million kuna. Unfortunately, in the period 2009-2011, we have marked a serious failure of this plan. So it's only in 2012 that I'd dare say, now maybe it's a little rough, but only then did it start working properly. and in fact, only in 2014 are we trying to make up for the difference that has failed to demining according to the plan as foreseen since 2009-2011. The largest volume of jobs was the demining of the forest area most in Osijek-Baranja County, which can be especially commended, since there are still plenty of forests in Osijek-Baranja County that fall into mine suspected areas where hunting tourism can develop, but also other forest-related economic activities. The demining of the economic forests is what I am particularly pleased to see going a little faster than the plan because of the additional investment made by the Croatian forests. I think that's what my colleague Prelec mentioned that this is about... from a little less than 20 million kuna. Most mine suspected areas have been reduced to agricultural areas of the front row, precisely to the insistence of the local self-government unit on whose territories these areas are located, and precisely because of this fact that colleagues have mentioned before, and that is to say, the sooner they put these areas into agricultural exploitation or economic activity. In 2014, no mine incident was recorded, so no pyrotechnics died. Unfortunately, civilians have, we've had one death case, one major injury case, but I'd say mine protection has been determined since the end of the Homeland War, so to date, it's been fatally killed as we've told 163 people. Although every accident is huge, I don't want to reduce the scale of the accident at all, which and if one life takes away too much. A small number of accidents indicate good preparation of authorised persons and the use of quality technology whose practice can be presented outside the Republic of Croatia, and the result of quality of activities carried out in the field of education of the population of mine danger has been reduced precisely because of this and a decrease in the number of mine accidents in several past years including the past. Of course, I'd be happiest if I could find out that we haven't had any mine deaths, but unfortunately that's not the case. As regards HCZR's activities, other than internal reorganisation, which I must once again underline also because of the fact that with never less resources used for the operation of the centre itself and with never a small number of HRZR employees, the most did or the most transferred. It has also been working to strengthen co-operation with the ministries, which is extremely important, so with the resolute ministries to co-operate with, co-ordination with local self-government units. One of the results is that large agricultural areas of the first category and demining, the development of the information system, the education of the population that is obviously being paid because we record a growing number of accidents, assistance to mine victims and the placement of Croatian knowledge and technology from mine action abroad. So since this accident called aggression on Croatia, I think that Croatia can now also barata with 2 actually excellent export products, which is our knowledge and operationality in the process of demining but also knowledge and skills in peaceful reintegration in reconciliation of the people who lived, means that they are covered by the process of peaceful reintegration. So in the history of the world it is one of the unique examples and certainly is a positive example that we can point out and as far as Croatia is concerned. Of course they're looking for other financial... First of all, those from the European Union are very important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As I have just said, by pawning the Government's office is therefore and recognised by the European Union that at least part of the operational programme, so that demining enters as part of the operational programme for competitiveness and cohesion. I think this is extremely important because the Republic of Croatia is the only member state of the European Union that still has a mine problem since not so long ago military conflict. So one Croatian speciality but which certainly contributes to the fact that, as far as the operational programme for competitiveness and cohesion is concerned, the funds must be allocated for these needs, i.e. to help us put the economy and other functions into operation as soon as possible, both agricultural and forest and other. What is also to point out is that 40% of the funds agreed by IPA in component 1 than planned, I think it's the same proof that the centre was doing well, that co-ordination with the restoring ministries is good, and I believe that we'll hear that the results are even better every year. And finally, although we can't generally be satisfied during demining while another inch of the Croatian country is under mines, what I can say is that I'm glad to keep track of progress from year to year, that we are doing more and I hope that by 2019 we will have said that if we don't and solve the problem completely then solve the great majority. And that's why this report deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111651	Thank you, too. Alan Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111652	Mr. President. Here, in my presentation, I spoke about the report, but I did not touch the European Union funds, and I would like to say a few words about it. Namely, there is a face in the media and on TV that Croatia does not use its opportunities for European funds. And when a man says it 100 times, he really thinks it's true. However, the fact is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is working very hard to attract funds from European Union funds such as HCZR and there are also one facts. But before I say anything about facts, I'd like to say something, and I've been to Poland for a short time to visit a city that is one of the strongest cities in terms of attracting European funds. The Poles actually used the most, clearly these funds of all European countries but they certainly did not do so in the first year or second year of membership but did so over 10 years. The fact that we have entered the European Union here, I will say not so long ago, and we have really enough time to make a significant effort to get out of the European Union as much as we can, in any case more than we pay. Therefore, here I will list some facts from 2014 and how much HCZR and Government have done with European funds related to demining. In 2014, the financing of demining operations from EU pre-accession IPA funds was planned to be one of 49 million kuna and 67 million kuna was reached. The use of pre-accession funds of the European Union used to finance demining operations was higher than planned in 2014 and that is almost 40%. So 40% more funds are obtained from European funds than planned. And this is under the Osijek-Baranja County programme, out of the total planned 3 million 38 thousand euros, it received from the European funds 2.5m euros. Zadar's County of the planned million and 856 thousand euros total received assistance from the European funds of a million 438 thousand kuna. Lika-Senjska, Sisak-Moslavina and Zadar County of 4 million and 212 total costs of millions of euros are being received from the European Union from 3 million and 159 thousand euros. So of the total value of 9 million 107 000 euros, 7 million and 0.97 were used by the European Union funds. In the rural development programme within the M05 measure, the renewal of the agricultural production potential of disrupted elemental disasters and catastrophic events and the introduction of appropriate preventive activities have established sub-measure 5.2 of the support for investment in the restoration of agricultural land and the production potential of affected elemental disasters with adverse climate conditions and catastrophic events. The objectives and objectives of 5.2 are the demining of the entire agricultural land of the Republic of Croatia by the end of 2018 and we have seen from this debate that this plan will also be achieved by the end of 2016. The restoration of agricultural potential and socioeconomic revitalisation. Countys are users of this type of operation responsible for the procurement and selection of demining service providers, while farmers are end-users who will benefit from the operation itself and the restoration of their agricultural land and the relaunch of agricultural production on demining land. This will contribute to the prevention of risks in agricultural economies and improve their economic efficiency, ensure sustainability in production and prevent the collapse of agricultural economies in war-affected areas. I'm sorry he doesn't have a colleague, Novak, so let's hear a piece of it. The Croatian Mine Action Centre as the only competent national authority of the public demining authority under the Law on humanitarian demining provides all necessary technical support for the successful implementation of this type of operation. The first tender for the submission of applications for support from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development for the granting of demining aid was published in the National Journal of 15 April 2015, it concluded on 15.5.2015. The value of the first competition in 2015 is 228 million kuna or 30 million euros. The total area intended for search and demining is 29 million m2 and refers to six counties: Brod-Posaviska 1 project, Lika-senjska 3 projects, Osijek-Baranja 2 projects, Požeško-Slavonska 1 project and Sisak-Moslavina 4 projects. That's the facts. The estimated value of the contest to be published in 2016 is 20m euros. The implementation of all planned jobs in 2015 and 2016 will demining the entire mine suspected agricultural area in the Republic of Croatia. And the total value of the support is 50m euros. That's the facts. Moreover, I note that the European Union's grants for demining operations in the current year are planned to amount to 5.64 million kuna, while CROMAC has also achieved an additional unplanned 4m euros by means of the 2011 IPA programme. And here's only one correction, I made a mistake in my report, and I said that one of the donors was Croatian Telecom, worth a million kuna. It's not a Croatian telecom, it's a VIP. Here's my apology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111653	Thank you. We have one replica. Ada Damian, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111654	Thank you, Vice President. I am glad that you mentioned the funds obtained from the European Union with accurate data for the demining and effort of our government, which means only a confirmation that the ambitious plan that the other side has prepared will be realised, which was practically uncovered in the financial plan, so that the results of the demining that we will have in the next report will certainly be much better and that we will give our farmers clean agricultural land for the production of our healthy food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111655	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111656	Thank you, colleagues... noticed. Clearly, an ambitious plan was demining. A lot of these ambitious plans we've seen from the other side, but little has happened. I just have to point out, everything that was planned to be tried and realized, but at the head of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and its assistants I think we can be pleased to go at such a pace in demining. We talked a lot about it here, we can be pleased what happened in these I would say 20 years as regards mines in Croatia, we can't be satisfied because here we are a colleague... said the third country in the world for mine pollution, but with this plan, with this use of European funds I think we can be certain that by 2019 we will completely free Croatia from mines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111657	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. So much for today. Tomorrow we will continue with the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2014. I'd like to thank the Deputy Minister and see you tomorrow. Session interrupted at 16.43 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-28-0.u111658	Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2014. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. The report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2014. Please vote on the proposed conclusion. What's the score? I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against the proposed conclusion. Good morning! I see a good mood, not bad, for discussion. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, I saw my hand slowly, just to say that this is the beginning of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. We have a theme program that we agreed on, but before that, at the club's request, I assume Branko Vuksic is looking for a break.
