ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u96626	Dear Madam Vice-President, gentlemen of the Parliament, due to the possibility of signing the Treaty between the Croatian Government and Japan's Marubeni on the construction of Plomin C on coal, I demand a 10-minute break. Citizens are against, doctors are against, tourism sector v, Minister of Tourism business for and therefore I really ask you to on behalf of a large corps of citizens of Labinština and Istria
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u96627	Thank you. I'm setting a break to 9.40. After a break, a colleague, Damir Cain, will present the club's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u96629	Honorable Vice President and Honorable Gentlemen MPs very briefly. First of all, I call on the citizens of Labinstein to go out on Sunday for a referendum and vote against coal. The doctor's meeting was held yesterday, and among other things, they say I don't read all these qualifications that the thermopower plant is absolutely harmful, that among other things the Istrians are the most endangered of cancers on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. We just don't need a cancer factory. The truth we must be honest, we must admit that Plomin 1 did not impose on us, but in the early 79 ’ s, the Istrians themselves demanded it. In the '70s, it was a condition to express myself so as to extend mining in the Labinstina by 20, 30 years. It seems to me that about 72 C.E., Joseph Broz Tito opened it in front of 40,000 people. It was the greatest gathering in the history of Istria until then and since then. In 1996, two people began to talk about each other. We tried to prevent it with a referendum, it didn't work out, it was some other time, the referendum was banned and Germany's RWE raised a two by 500 million marks and secured Croatia, Istria 300 megawatts hours of additional electricity. It was a condition, among other things, that there was a detour. The price of the system was, if I'm wrong, close to 100 million marks then. They did, but in the meantime, closed mines, coal is no longer obtained from Tuljek, or Rasa, imported from South Africa, no sulphur today, but there are all other cancers among the Labinians. Right in these thermal power plants 1 and 2 work about 300 people, indirectly another 300 people. The basic problem down there is an old, outdated Termoelectric Plomin 1 power plant. However, what is happening now is being imposed on us by a two or better said block c worth between 800 and 1 billion euros. The investment is such as to trigger both the Istrian and Croatian economies, but the price will ultimately be paid by the Istrians, above all by the Labinians, those Liburni there who in Mosčenic Drago, Opatija, Cres, Lošinj, Matulji and are really asking whether it makes sense. The biggest thing that has passed my parliamentary mandates is that the Tuvaluac miners are today after being put out of mining in the system of "privileged pensions" even though the one who was once in the mine and saw what conditions these people are working on can certainly agree with everything but not that they are privileged in any way or that they have received anything past work. It was in Mr. Matesha's office. Istria has gas, the Anamaria platform draws one third of Croatian gas, located 30 miles from the west or the pulse coast. I am absolutely for gas platforms on the northern Adriatic, what is the situation in southern Croatia I do not know. God forbid Plomin is reorienting to gas. The LNG on Krk is most likely a waste, and we will lose what I would say or call on this opportunity and the Minister of Tourism to finally manifest himself even though he worked as Deputy Minister of Economy on Plomin for Coal. Some Istrian MPs also voted here for the Energy Act, which puts aside the spatial plan of the County of Istria, which envisioned the use of gas at that location. Apparently, in the strategy for the development of Istria, I heard that this morning, by 2020, I suppose they were undercut by a mistake so the coal power plant could be built there. It was in the term of office of our Eurospeaker. However, no matter what, I call on citizens to come to the referendum and vote against the government not to sign a contract with Marubeni, which has recently been fined with 100m euros or 90m euros for bribes and may later respect the will of the citizens of Labinština and Istria. And those who have asked me how we stand with the compost in Buzet just to say that there is also the mayor agreeing now to go to the referendum and best to make it happen or to coincide with the parliamentary elections and then respect the will of the citizens of that city.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105474	We move to a debate on: - Half-yearly information on the financial situation, degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy. The Croatian National Bank submitted this report pursuant to Article 62 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The CNB law. You've received the motion for an act. The government delivered an opinion. The debate is carried out by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. And now I ask the deputy governor of the CNB, Mr. Relja Martic, to explain the information to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105475	Thank you very much. I welcome all MPs, thank you, Madam Chairman. During the first half of 2014, the CNB, like all these years since 2008, has led an expansion monetary policy. This mirror is also in real growth of monetary masses and wider monetary aggregates, especially in large and until recorded surpluses of kuna liquidity in bank accounts at the central bank and historically low interest rates on the money market. The fact that the CNB de facto implements its kind of policy, so-called. quantitative easing, promoting the work of the public and even professional because our central bank does not use the same instrumentaries to create the money used in quantitative easing policies. Fed Japan Central Bank, ECB and other large central banks. Why? Since the structure of the CNB balance sheet is significantly different, the structure of the domestic financial system is also different from the financial systems of the developed economies and is finally the most important because there is still an effective instrument in its tool collection that is not available to the central banks mentioned. That instrument is a mandatory reserve. At the beginning of the crisis, the central bank released... the foreign currency and kuna liquidity by abolishing the various restrictions imposed in the boom phase in order to slow the credit activity of banks when needed by monetary tightening but also by non-conventional measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It then gradually lowers the reserve rate in part conditioned in combination with certain HBOR lending programmes. In part, it was through HBOR and partly not conditional. Until it exhausts the ability to lower the reserve rate to the level at which the general reserve and the importance of the reserve as a monetary policy instrument is present in the euro system and in other large central banks, there is no need and it would be irrational to create new money with other channels. Mandatory reserves are still one huge liquidity tank of over 31 billion kuna. This money when released and released into the system is released permanently, free of maturity or reoccupation, unlike repurchases or purchases of securities made by those large central banks and free of charge because there is no interest payment, it is simply not a credit. Moreover, by reducing the minimum reserve rate, the credit multiplier is also increased directly. Quantitative discounts were not able to boost more significant credit growth in Croatia as well as so far the expansional monetary policy of the ECB has failed to do in the euro zone. In developed market economies, quantitative discounts led above all to the rise of financial instruments and shares prices and the creation of new stock balloons. Stock indices are higher than they were before the crisis, and the growth of the economy is still muffled. The problem is the same everywhere how to end this new money in the real sector, in productive investment and in business. Due to the absence of such an effective cash transfer, the quantitative discount favours financial investors the most and actually leads to further inequalities and sows seeds of the new crisis if its stimulating effects are not followed by real reforms. And therefore, when the ECB leaders recently announced the latest round of quantitative easing, their message was a loose policy, monetary policy, it is not... further reforms are needed. It seems that the quantitative discount has given certain results in the United States by targeting the market for private securities. In the EU where the debt market is relatively underdeveloped and where banks, not the capital market, play a major role in the financing of businesses, for example. 80% of the funding goes through banks to only 30% in the United States. In fact, there is no such market for private securities in a more significant volume, and perhaps according to some opinions a more direct and efficient use of new printed money in investment in bonds of institutions such as the European Investment Bank and similar institutions and mechanisms that monitor development and investment programmes and provide the guarantee schemes needed for small and medium-sized enterprises. The CNB, however, has already done so, has sought solutions for reviving the financing of companies in collaboration with the HBOR through known HBOR credit models. At the end of 2013, a similar mechanism was relaunched but directly without HBOR a minimum reserve rate of 1.5% was lowered and thus almost 4 billion kuna was released but conditionally. Banks freed from kunas had to enter in cash registers which did not bring interest and which were then purchased by the CNB from banks or cashed in accordance with the increase in their credit activity. So since the beginning of last year, banks have been available for credit activity daily on average 8 billion kuna in their giro accounts and nearly 4 billion kuna in cash registers ready to be cashed at a rate that would allow banks to grant new loans. It's a huge credit potential. However, surveys carried out in the CNB show that during this period the bid was only a minor part limiting the reason for the credit growth. The main problem is a weak credit quality demand with too much debt and subcapitalised sectors in the atmosphere of economic pessimism. The population continued to be disbursed and loans to businesses in the first term were actually stagnated. Clearly, therefore, the problem does not lie in the liquidity and money shortages of the central bank and cannot be resolved in isolation by monetary policy. Thus, in the first half of 2014, economic activity stagnated but due to the slowdown in late 2013, the annual GDP growth rate in the first and second quarter were negative and were -6 and -8%. The main problem is investment. The far-reaching negative contribution of GDP came from a further decline in investments that fell by as much as -3.6% and -5.2% in those neighborhoods. And only then is much less than the fall of state and personal consumption. The positive contribution came only from foreign relations due to the dynamicization of export growth. The stagnation of economic activity in the first half of last year was accompanied by a deterioration of unfavourable labour market movements, the number of employees then stabilised at a low level after a strong decline achieved in the second half of 2013, and even the number of unemployed was not significantly changing. The unemployment rate was held at 16.6%. Despite the lack of growth in nominal and real gross wages and net wages in the first half of 2014 the mild increases. Inflation during that period fell to -0.4% in June 2014, a decline in economic activity, investment, decreases in available population income and deleveraging and other factors which suppress price growth were present all the time after 2008, and it is obvious that external factors and the movement of volatility elements and indices such as agricultural prices and nutrition were decisive. The annual rate of change in the deflator of imports of goods and services during that period was -1 %. This also shows that significant pressure on price reductions stemmed from the cost of raw materials and final products from abroad and the increase in competition after Croatia's entry into the EU. Deflation can be dangerous because it can trigger a spiral of pay, price and demand. What we mean by deflation in classical terms is not present in Croatia, so-called Baseline inflation, therefore, shows a trend in prices in which it is not contained, in which the volatility prices of agricultural products and energy were not contained were in the period considered and remained in the positive area. We have passing reasons on the scene while the deflation is a longer-term trend of price reduction followed by the general expectations of its further decline, which then leads to a delay in consumption in theory. However, the reasons for the fall in personal consumption in Croatia since the beginning of 2009 lie in other factors of the money used in the policies of quantitative easing... and certainly not to delay consumption due to the expected further decline in food or oil prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the fall in these prices especially when not followed by a fall in real wages before consumption will trigger rather than delay it unless, of course, that effect is directed at an even faster deleveraging as unfortunately, quite possible. For the conduct of expansion monetary policy, I would like to emphasise the policies of the CNB there is a clear limit that has not been reached and so far has not been a limiting factor... monetary policies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's the limit? It's a kuna course. And there is also the difference between degrees, freedom to conduct the monetary policy of the CNB and the ECB. The CNB has no choice but to continue with the policy of a relatively stable exchange rate towards the euro for very well-known reasons. If it is necessary to choose between expansional monetary policy and maintaining relative exchange rate stability, a rate will be chosen at least at the cost of monetary tightening. This is why the current account and the balance of payments are of particular importance and movement. The current account was seasonal in the first semester last year was negative... 1.8 billion euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there we must look at the year as a whole, it is necessary because of the characteristic seasonal factors, including the third quarter with the main tourist revenues. He's back as in '13. I was positive. So we have a positive balance of payments for two years. In the conditions of a sensitive slowdown in the growth of the total foreign debt balance, the balance of payments was closed in that part of the year, partly by increasing borrowing but partly by reducing the gross international reserves of the CNB. INO's debt ended in '13 was 45.9 billion, at the end of June 46.3. In the banking sector, debt fell from 9.2 to 8.9 billion. Other sectors have also increased the debt slightly. Gross international reserves were at the end of '13. 12.9 billion to reach 12.3 billion euros at the end of June. Euro course at the end of '13. It was 7.64, at the end of June 7.57. The CNB during that period sold foreign exchanges to the European Commission, a total of 291 million, at auctions in February of 240 million and bought a total of 417 million euros from the Ministry of Finance. Movements in the balance sheet of monetary institutions were under the crucial influence of deleveraging the population by 0.9 billion nominally and 262 billion effectively, respectively, without the impact of the exchange rate. Then the very slow growth of private companies' loans of 751 million and also a marked drop in the loans of state companies that partially compensated by foreign borrowing, and at the end of the significant growth in the net claims of banks from the state. It's total so-called. The net domestic activity increased by only 599 million was practically stagnated. The currency mass was up 3 billion or 5.1%, the quasi money fell 3.4 billion, primarily due to the drop in foreign deposits and the Kunski made slight growth. The final result of all these developments in the net domestic activity was the growth of foreign assets of banks and an even faster drop in foreign liabilities of banks. Such movement in foreign activity and passive banks was much stronger during the second half of the year and this also shows the limit of expansional monetary policy in Croatia. Thus, on developed financial markets quantitative discounts practically blow the price of financial instruments and shares while we speed up bank deleveraging to abroad. In the European Union, too, after this latest additional money printing programme, the European Union faces a strong euro outflow into other currencies and other markets. In all these cases, the effects on domestic credit growth are modest. With such a reduction in balance sheet, the banking system's operations in the first half of '14. It also marked a further growth in bad credits. The share of bad loans increased by 15.7% at the end of '13. at 16.6% at the end of June of '14. The biggest impact on the decline in total, the quality of the total loans had loans to businesses so that they reached 30% of the share of bad loans to banks. In accordance with the requirements of the European Banking Supervisory Authority in cooperation with other countries' respective supervisory authorities, Croatia has conducted an examination of the quality of the assets and has confirmed our view of the situation in the banks caught by the verification. The findings indicate that bank accounts are realistic and no more significant risks have been found. The need for additional reservations and corrections of about a billion-and-a-half kuna values has been observed, which is not small but is not significant compared to the size of the portfolio reviewed. Banks received temporary data in the first term amounted to 1.6 billion kuna in a quarter more than in the same period of the previous year. And the profitability indicators of assets and capital improved compared to the '13th year above all because then booking costs were higher and heavy on their profits. Despite the deterioration in the quality of the credit portfolio, the risks of bank operations have been adequately covered. Growth in profits and recapitalisations has strengthened the capitalisation of the domestic banking system and is one of the most capitalised in Europe, in the European Union. Therefore, the banking system as a whole maintained on average profitability and a strong capital position with an appropriate growth in the coverage of poor loans to reserves. The system is therefore relatively healthy, does not pose a problem and burden on public finances, but unfortunately does not contribute in a satisfactory way to address problems in other sectors of the economy. Banks are underactive in resuscitating credit expansion and are particularly insufficiently taken to address the problem of bad loans. A large share of their assets has been frozen in non-income, non-refundable or only partly remunerated loans. This bad property is the result of their loose credit policies and bad business decisions in previous years. Banks must be able to access the assets and the balance sheet on the burden of their costs faster, i.e. they must suffer certain losses on that basis. This will free them from the ballast of wrong moves from the past, facilitate the position of over-indebted sectors and open a space for the growth of new loans. The CNB will provide liquidity as before, but will also be ready to modify regulatory requirements, depending on the selected balance-cleaning modes. I have already repeatedly reminded behind this speaker that in years before the crisis, the CNB has actively made moves thanks to which we now have financial stability and less problems in the financial sector and that after entering the CNB crisis, it has been active again in the framework of its powers to facilitate exit from the crisis. The CNB's policy was therefore anticyclical. Monetary policy can be a support and part of a solution, but it cannot be a solution itself. In order to increase investment activity, employment and productivity and therefore to exploit monetary stimuli, further deep reforms are needed. The monetary policies of both the ECB and the CNB can only buy time, and this cannot take too long to implement reforms that would increase the competitiveness of European Union countries lagging behind in economic growth and development. In Croatia until this is done, potential growth will be very low, and recovery will be very slow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105476	Thank you very much. We have replicas. Drazen Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105477	Thank you. Your Honor, you pointed out in your statement that... the drop in monetary policy in practice and did not significantly help the economy or citizens, but helped to make the banking sector more liquidity for deleveraging, etc. Well, that's also logical because the problem in my opinion is the basic price of money in Croatia. It is normal that entrepreneurs do not want to take these interest rates or citizens credits because although our entrepreneurs are now part of the common European market they are simply not equal with the Austrian and German entrepreneurs who are in debt at a rate of 2 or 3%, while our entrepreneurs may be large corporations of 6, and small 7-8% and even more. He simply has a common input, he simply cannot be competitive, and the problem is then also in the consumption of citizens when you are offered unreal, almost interest rates... loans. Anyone who wants to deal with small entrepreneurship if they want to, for example. If the banks offer him 8-9 clearly, then there is neither purchase nor furniture nor funds to edit the apartments. It's just that it's all there, no employment, we've got the situation we've got. That's what I'd say, I'm not an economic expert, but I'd say it's one of the basic problems of equating those conditions. While we are already on the common European market, I think that all factors, although it may sound a little naive at the moment, but all factors in the economy and even at European Union level should seek to be equalising those rates, equating the conditions under which entrepreneurs can act on that common market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105478	Thank you. You want to answer? Replication response, Relja Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105479	So I can say you're right. Of course, this is the biggest problem, this drop in interest rates is too slow, it is visible, it exists, but it has been overly handled, but the credit price depends on the price of the source, first of all on the country's rating and it is very difficult to expect, or it is impossible to expect to even the terms of credit in Croatia and credit in other euro area countries as long as there is such a huge difference in credit rating and perception of credit risk in Croatia and other countries. But you are right and in the money market the money of the central bank at historically low levels, the state owes itself to the vaults at historically low rates, the banks are full of money. That's the main problem, this transmission, this huge amount of free liquid resources, how to end up in the real sector. That's the main problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105480	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105481	Dear Mr. Martić, you were saying, quite certainly, that no one can deny your expertise, but you spoke in a language that probably Mr. Linic and Mr. Schuker can understand and a few in the Assembly, so I would ask you to simplify me because the hardest thing to say is that everyone understands you, to rise from that target language of yours. It's said that the banker is the guy who borrows the umbrella when the sun shines, and he asks you to give it back to him when it starts to rain, and that's certainly how it is. That's what Mark Twain said, it's not my invention. This happens every day in Croatia. I would ask you to say what you're thinking in the Croatian National Bank about the foreign exchange clause. You haven't said anything, although it's not up to you, I know what you're going to answer isn't on me, it's up to the Parliament to change the law regarding the foreign exchange clause. But we do know that at the time of Mr. Rohatinski it was the first major opposition that was even speaking about the foreign exchange clause of termination, and after that, before going to Mr. Todorovic Mr. Rohatinski said the Prime Minister was a colleague of Kosor, that it was necessary to consider abolishing the foreign exchange clause and that the government was preparing for it. You're not in your speech, you're in business, you're mostly banks. However, we know what the task of modern central banks is. You have not said a single word to the public, so I would like you to say in your address when you speak to what the Croatian National Bank is doing specifically to get Croatia out of the crisis except by sharing a high political lesson.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105482	Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105483	Thank you, Vice President. Therefore, according to the FINA data published in February 2015 in the structure of the unexploited payment grounds towards the duration of the blockade of the citizens' accounts, the long-term blockades of 300, slightly more than 320 thousand blocked citizens, have been blocked for almost 250 thousand more than a year, and their debt amounted to €28.55 billion, representing a share of almost 92% in the total debt of citizens of 31 December 2014 amounting to €31.06 billion. You have talked a lot in your opening statement about banks and bank responsibilities, and I am asking you a question now, and in my written parliamentary question, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has asked me whether the banks operating in the territory of Croatia are obliged to set criteria to determine the creditworthiness of debtors and their courts when granting credit. Whether they are obliged to provide for the obligation to regularly control and take into account the changed financial circumstances of debtors that lead debtors to an unfavourable situation during the duration of the credit relationship, and in accordance with the criteria and amendments of the Loan Treaty, in accordance with these criteria. And whether the Croatian National Bank is obliged to monitor the obligation to prescribe and apply these criteria, and to influence the uniformity of these criteria and what these criteria would be required by banks to prescribe for the determination of the creditworthiness of credit users and their creditors and to later amend the loan contract in the event of a difficult financial situation for debtors. I'd be grateful for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105484	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105485	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Governor. Unfortunately for us in the House, this report is a dog. It's practically been nine months since the period we've been discussing. However, the biggest tragedy for the citizens and the economy of the Republic of Croatia, which unfortunately remained the same or slightly changed. Because what can be read from the introduction of the deputy governor's statement is constant, there are no reforms, there's no unemployment, there's no interest in the private sector, and that's one reason why Europe is at historically low interest rates, and the credit activity of the population is practically not being talked about in this report because it's not available at all. What I would consider to be a representative, and given that in this House of Commons a lot of words, Mr. Martic, I think that in his opening part, you should look back on the famous story of the Swiss franc, and also explain with a few sentences the story of Austrian credit cooperatives that also made a big mess on the financial market. Because I think the answer of the Croatian National Bank to people who have borrowed loans in credit cooperatives that could have been borrowed then and then, the other part of the truth should be said, which is that intermediaries and lawyers in some other ways have entered these loans into Croatia and today, unfortunately, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are traumatized because of it. However, perhaps the biggest tragedy of this report is that we in the Parliament about him, I repeat what I said at the beginning of the discussion late. However, the biggest tragedy for Croatia is that unfortunately the key things that were to happen in Croatia have not happened today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105486	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Left-wing fellow Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105487	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Deputy Governor, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to stay on the numbers for a while, and I'm going to try not to speak professionally and try to update the report from half last year with today's time, and we're going to divide into two things. What has monetary policy done to the stability of economic growth? What did monetary policy do to make a citizen live easier, and what is fiscal policy? Because these are the two elements of economic policy in the country. So we're talking about what made it a monetary good, and I think on behalf of the club it wasn't well done. It is evident that monetary policy through expansion policy has provided sufficient liquidity for both kuna and foreign exchange, and this is what is positive because we have not recorded economic growth for the eighth year. Therefore, money in the Republic of Croatia is not a problem and monetary policy in that part simply helps the economy and provides sufficient liquidity. Even that's the reason and the lower interest. I don't care if we're not happy at the rate of interest, but it's still lower interest. Even the problem we've been talking about for decades, which is exchange rate policy, we see that it's not a problem for the economy because the only growth we've been seeing is export growth. Which means, all those who are trying to say that the growth of exports will happen when we crash the course are wrong. Our economy can also be competitive with this course and therefore the National Bank's policy not to touch the course because we are highly euroed in place. It's not a simple problem. We even see that we have a drop in imports. If we have too high a course, it could mean expansion of imports, and we don't. Why don't we? Well, because neither the citizens spend nor the economy invests, the capital goods that are needed for investment are not imported. So, course's not a problem. And that is why we estimate that simple monetary policy is with positive activities and measures for the economy and growth of the economy. When we talk about the stability of the banking system, which is very important, then we must say that the same thing when the whole of Europe is in trouble and when fiscal policy and fiscal discipline suffers from deficits, losses and collapse of banks in Croatia we do not have that. It simply concerns the National Bank that banks must have coverage, that they must be responsible for their expansion the National Bank has done so with its policies. We have a stable banking system. One of the biggest coverage of risk placements in Europe is in the Croatian banking sector and what is also important we have the profits present. What's the problem? The problem with the banking system is we see in the fact that it didn't part with it or that it didn't write off bad placements. And that's also the deputy governor very clearly. So, did fiscal policy in that part open up space? It is. Pre-party settlements were an opportunity for very simple bank decisions to place bad credits in the function of recovery of these entities or, in the end, to definitely be written off. The National Bank insists on coverings for the reason that we have 30% of bad placements in the economy, in the economy. And by offering a pre-fashion settlement programme, politics has given banks the opportunity to lead the role. But let's be honest, little politics, little media we've created a crime out of it. And now we're wondering why the banking system hasn't written off the old loans? Why not? Through bankruptcy, they will in the next 10, 15 years, and we need to spend it in a year, in two years, we have to spend it. So, we had a chance, we didn't take advantage. Of the 7.5 thousand processed items under the pre-fashion settlement, only 2200 positive. Why? The banking system wouldn't participate, he was scared. They arrested, threatened, the media said it was all a crime, even the judges declared it the greatest robbery of the century. And now we see that we have the charges that the banking system didn't simply get rid of bad placements in the economy. Tomorrow we'll have the same thing through the Consumer Personal Bank Act. How long do you think the bank's gonna be? Because the tall ones are just bad ones too. These are policies when simply in a crisis there must be solutions. And in that part, he's really criticizing the banking system that he didn't use the model to move away from bad placements. Anyway, he burdened his business with reservations, reduced his profits, and at the same time, the banking system was not cleaning up old, bad placements giving itself the opportunity to start new ones. And what I resent to the banks and to the National Bank has been the last year in terms of Swiss. The huge amount of money in the banking system resulted in the return of loans to mothers to banks outside Croatia. They don't need money. Why aren't all the Swiss returned? It had to be the National Bank's order and it had to be a request even at the expense of the profits of business banks. We had to get rid of the Swiss. The priority interest and the economy and the citizens was when the loans were already returning to return all Swiss to the last Swiss franc. It all had to be in the last year. And then there wouldn't be a blow where the National Bank of Switzerland simply decided not to defend the course anymore and there was a new explosion of exchange rates. It was supposed to be a warrant, and that's what the National Bank was supposed to do. Why? Because last year, we fought Frank, with a course, with interest rates. The mass of the deal was to stop the Swiss franc interest, control, to help citizens get their loans back. I wonder why not all the Swiss francs were returned last year? We wouldn't have any problems in 2015. It's the responsibility of the National Bank, it's the responsibility of all business banks. Probably the profit wasn't a billion and 600, it probably wouldn't be, it would be a little less, but the relationship between citizens and banks would be far better. But then we could say that monetary policy has done its job properly. And that's a message for today. Unfortunately, we still don't have the investment, we still have the loan back. The National Bank needs to order the return of the Swiss franc and we need to get rid of that evil that shouldn't have even entered the Republic of Croatia. It's the only problem I have left open in monetary policy. Now back to that basic problem, fiscal policy. Why do we not have the results of fiscal policy that would allow economic growth, which would allow for the growth of investments, the growth of employees, and finally normalisation and the trend of placement towards the economy. At this point, we're interested in the economy. We wonder if the Government prepared itself for those acts in 2014. So then, I brought two documents. One document is the National Reform Programme. A national reform programme adopted in April 2014 that said what we would do as a government to use monetary expansion policy for economic growth. Well, I'm just gonna get a certain list of reforms so I don't get bored. The management of state assets in the function of income and development, the national plan for the development of clinical hospital centres and hospital savings, market liberalisation, investment promotion, improvement of the efficiency of the judicial system and the use of structural cohesion funds. Therefore, the reform plan clearly highlights investments, investments and investments. Even with the 2014 budget, economic growth is based on investment in public capital, public investment. Now we see how many conflicts there are in the fourth year that will be the thermo power plant in Plomin, the fourth year. Projects ready, don't worry about the citizens of Croatia or Labina, you won't get Japanese where you're not wanted but the Croatian Government is responsible for it. He can't come and he's unwanted in the Republic of Croatia. That these are opportunities, it is the government's fault that has not clearly taken responsibility if it has decided to be coal and not to leave problems to a foreign investor. Dubrovnik quit when we watch the hydropower plant. There's no investment in the railways. INA 4th year unsolved. All these are investments since 2012 that have been continuously repeated. And 1.2 economic growth in 2014 was to be based on investment in public capital. This means opening investments in the Republic of Croatia, the private sector would have to invest in monitoring these investments. And where do we have the biggest problems? Always construction, processing industry, and I'd say energy. A complete, total lack of investment. We see for ourselves over 4 to 6% of the impact on economic growth is precisely in gross public investment. So the government does not realize the programme itself which has drawn up and this is the problem of fiscal policy that it simply did not meet the conditions for reporting and hiring citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This is why we have a continuous decline and even in the 2015 budget we have 40,000 fewer jobs or the number of employees scheduled for this year. So in the year of the electoral government he goes with an even smaller number of employees. So we don't have to deal with the number of unemployed, employees, at a million, 300 grand we won't solve any of our deficits, not one of our structural programmes or reform, we won't solve it. And then, of course, the convergence program that was dynamically valuable said that the government would fight over an excessive deficit because the excessive deficit is the problem again. You have a deficit, the state has a negative image, the state is always in debt, unfortunately Croatia is more expensive than our environment, so let's not be surprised that the interest rates of businessmen are more expensive. They are more expensive for the risk of the Republic of Croatia, which is causing fiscal policy. Therefore, a clear and unambiguous conclusion. Monetary policy has reached assumptions about economic growth, for strengthening the financial sector to be paid, has a stable financial sector. Fiscal policy, although it has adopted documents, has not implemented them either in the development part or in the part of the reforms. So that's why we don't have a shift in the labour market but we still have negative trends and that's why less and less citizens have a salary, has a secure job, and their impact on increasing consumption as one of the factors in economic growth is not more significant and is not enough. And, of course, with such a fiscal policy, we send the worst message to both citizens and entrepreneurs. We have no security, no optimism. Without one and the other, we will not solve our problems and obviously that in the election year, spending money on political ones, I would say the messages we want to like to the citizens of Croatia we will lose another year free of charge and all of this will be paid by the citizens of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105488	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105489	Dear fellow Linic, thank you for speaking with understanding. Here you were wondering in your opening statement what the monetary policy has done to the stability of the economy and what, of course, the Croatian National Bank has made sure that citizens do not fall from day to day into debt slavery. Then you talked about that we should have gotten rid of the Swiss before, here I am, I think it's the 6th or 7th year that I wrote to the former governor of the Croatian National Bank with the idea of abolishing the foreign exchange clause, I think we should have phased out the foreign exchange clause, that we should have found that solution. And you were talking about a bad credit rating, and now it's actually starting to fall apart. How to make up for money from a bad placement? The Croatian National Bank has done everything possible to make up for that money across the citizens' back. Someone's got to pay for the miss. In Croatia everything is unstable except that the banks are stable and all the time we talk about saving Croatia is stable banks. I don't know whether it's a rescue or not, citizens are getting more and more in debt slavery, but I'm pretty sure the CNB is the guardian of that banking stability. Simplified, when banks are stable citizens are unstable, in debt slavery, and I guess we're getting better and better. It's just that we're getting better and better at being citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105490	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105491	Let's not worry about what we're gonna do with the bad ones. Get a bank for the first term of a billion 600 million. Their profits are enough to simply write off their mistakes. In fact, I'd still be happy to contribute and download management payments in banks because at the expense of these payments, many have made millions a year, millions. One of the biggest is Mr. Lukovic from the Zagreb Bank, and when you go missing that bank you will be able to check. Let's not be burdened, that's the owner's problem. Let's not worry about that. A billion and 600 million, why don't banks write it all off, shut down bad plasmas and give the economy a chance to work again. It's their fault, they weren't serious enough, they weren't following enough. Well, they built these apartment buildings, living space, it's all empty, out of function. They're carrying the blame for that. And why should we be burdening ourselves for a billion and 600 million, they have space. And if I didn't say that the profits would have been even bigger if the National Bank hadn't ordered them reservations, it would have been bigger. Therefore, they have space to write off. We're wondering if we've given them instruments. Yeah, fiscal policy gave them a pre-emption deal. Why didn't they accept it and write it all off, why out of 7500 only 2000 positively solved? Why? Why they did not take responsibility and use the model by which they could relieve our economy and preserve jobs. That's the question, that must be what we're asking. And as for Swiss, we will always differ about the exchange rate differences because unfortunately our citizens keep 80 percent of the savings in foreign currency, and then it's very difficult to say whether we're going to be without a course, but in 2014, the Swiss should have been thrown out of all the banks and thrown back.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105492	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105493	Thank you very much. Namely, my colleague Linic cannot agree with you. In the debate, you said the course wasn't a problem for us, so I'd say that exactly the problem of our policy is coming slowly to collect and you saw in January that exports just dropped 7%, imports 15%. I don't just mean the exchange rate for which we're almost fixed, but very much on the Swiss course. But when we talk about energy in particular lately, then we must be worried about the exchange rate of dollars. And I think you've been robbed of one mistake, you said the write-off of old loans. You probably meant bad loans in your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105494	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105495	Again, the old debate, 15-year-olds, is running that, no, we'll never agree, because that's where we really differ because I consider our export economy you'll help if the health contribution tomorrow is 4% on the salary, and the rest we choose to charge somewhere else because it's not acceptable for health insurance to pay employees for 4 million and 300,000 residents as much as we have. It's not acceptable, but we put it on the payroll. That's why our economy is uncompetitive. We want to talk about the price of gas that destroyed Kutina's petrochemicals, the petrochemicals of Omis, so they can't be export branches, and they could be exporters. And they don't have a problem course, the problem is too high the price of gas, their own gas. But we've given the Hungarians the right to set our prices, do whatever they want. Who's to blame again, fiscal policy. But it's not a question of course. This way you can count as much as you want to if we're as expensive as our exporters. Now, if instead of reforming the state, we're going to bring our exporters to a reasonable degree to be competitive or vice versa, we're going to be covering the irrationality course, so we don't have to do reform, that's two questions. However, I am in favour of state reforms, for lower prices of the state, for salaries that will not be burdened with a health contribution because they must not be, because they are neither in Europe to be competitive. Then you'll see that course isn't a problem. So in my opinion, those who love money collect in the register, collect money at the expense of the one who works will always tell you about the bigger course. I don't think that's politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105496	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105497	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Linic, in your debate, you said that expansion monetary policy freed enough money, and unfortunately that money did not achieve such an effect in the economy that competitiveness increased, although such a possibility was. You mentioned bad placements. Of course, if we go back to the past, there are two reasons for these placements, one is certainly a political interference, and the other is that many placements were to settle short-term liabilities instead of investing in investment, a new investment. And I agree with you if 30% of such bad placements, banks still made such a profit that they could write these debts down separately and that's where we agree, pre-fashion settlements were a tool and this bill that was passed on pre-fashion deals, that these things were done and done. However, they may not have been done for several reasons. I'd like to mention one of the reasons now. No one seemed to want to take responsibility for such placements. Let us take an example of the Croatian Post Bank, which is owned by the state and companies that are also owned by the state and whose Croatian Post Bank is a believer. One and the other are state property, and no one will take responsibility to write off debts, and the company has continued to work further to make revenues. We're just coming into the status quo. Maybe you're right, maybe that's where the media took over and I'm gonna tell this whole hack about the whole story. People are just afraid that someone might accuse them of guessing. At the same time, the economy stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105498	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105499	Indeed, there were a number of measures in that part of fiscal policy pushing towards the banking sector to make stronger write-offs. It's not just pre-warrant settlements, but we've also passed a regulation. If the old rents are written off, if they're written off to the citizens, they weren't taxed. They had the right to refuse that part and not pay taxes on write-offs. So the banking system was really given everything. And then when you take the National Bank's estimates simply burden them with reservations, they're when you look at your profits and write them off, because their reservations are a cut in profits. So they've already written off 70 and 80 percent of it. The state and government also gave them a model of pre-fashion settlements that gives them the opportunity to work on saving jobs in a short time. And by the number that the IRS won't charge them, and the banks don't use it, they still have dirty placements. Still, they still hold high prices of real estate and apartments and business spaces. And of course, that's why they don't have such bad jobs, they can't give those same companies that don't return, and they didn't write off, they can't give them credit. I can't! I'm not going to say that the National Bank did a little bit of a mistake, because whoever entered the Pre-determined National Bank if he gave someone a new loan took it as a bad placement. It's not a bad placement, because society is restored. Therefore, there were errors at the National Bank if we look at the issue of pre-bank settlements as to how she punished banks if the banks accidentally went with a credit expansion towards the entity that passed the pre-bank settlement. So as a society, we don't realize that we have to do anything. It's a waste of money, it's just lost money, and in that part of the bank let him take the real estate and deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105500	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105501	I thank the esteemed vice president. Comrade Linic, I fully agree with you. Therefore, the banks did not make use of the Financial Business Act and the pre-bank settlement, nor of the law, nor of the amendments to the Profit Tax Act. For a little while you've been talking about it, so you can get rid of the non-incomes as they say the plasma itself, even if it's at the expense of your own gain. Because the fact that profits are growing again compared to 2013. So there's room. Banks would just get rid of this one ballast loan they're actually not going to be able to charge anyway. It just prolongs agony, and the banks are actually holding that one I'd say stalemate position. They don't want to help entrepreneurs, and they're full of money. So the liquidity is huge. Entrepreneurs can't absorb that money because they can't repay their debts. It's especially the case with the builders and the real estate business. It's actually said I'd have one vicious circle, and the banks keep the key to getting out of that vicious circle in their hands. If banks don't deleverage from these bad loans, they won't have anyone to place money on, and in fact, from placing money or making a difference in interest prices alive. So tomorrow, we'll pass the Consumer Personal Bank Act in Parliament. So it's another new, additional opportunity for banks to change their relationship against bad loans. We'll see if they understand. But I repeat, the stability of banks alone cannot be its goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105502	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105503	I agree with my colleague and perhaps a message to the bank employees. If you do not deprive yourself and if you do not write off your citizens to debtors who cannot pay you back, yet the government offers you a solution through personal bankruptcy. If you don't write off your loans to companies tomorrow, you don't have someone to pay your loans to, and you know what that means? 50% of bank employees will go to the labour market because their basic business is loans. They live off interest and on money-providing services. You won't have anywhere to work tomorrow. Therefore, do not protect your administrations who are responsible because they were pushing money to get premiums. It's an honor not to appear to be speaking in general. But a bunch of them did it. Now they don't have the courage to make a write-off decision, they don't have the courage. But remember, if you don't spend 50% of you will go and won't have anywhere to work because you're closing your own jobs. This is an additional problem that will come back to us, because we will also have a fall in employees in the financial sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105504	Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105505	Dear fellow Linic, I will look back on your part of the exhibit that speaks of the failure of the government's energy policy. I agree with you that the government's energy policy is unsuccessful, although our starting points are quite different in that part. The fact is that energy and what you mentioned about the railway is extremely important for the launch of a new development cycle of Croatia and that cycle that would go towards sustainable development. However, the way those projects you mentioned were prepared, which is the thermo power plant Plomin C and the Ombla hydro power plant are scandalous I would say. Namely, when we talk about the Plomin C thermal power plant, it is not possible to conclude contracts with a private partner between HEP and a private partner in a way that guarantees the supply of electricity because it is prohibited by the rules of the third European energy package that are related to market liberalisation. And in addition, when we talk about the economic viability of the project, it raises the question of how the project will be at all profitable if the electricity price we will pay is 70 euros per megawatt. At this point, for those who do not know the market price is 40 euros per megawatt, not to mention that this project is completely unprepared because it is necessary to build a new power line. So we'd be building a car that wouldn't have wheels. When we talk about HE Ombla, too, a whole series of problems. The small power hydropower plant, 68 megawatts, extremely risky, economically completely unwarranted and what is the biggest problem of Croatia when we talk about all governments is that there is not one concrete energy policy that would satisfy the long-term need for the development of Croatian energy independence and energy by saying stability in that part. But I'm saying, I don't agree with your findings that it was necessary to implement these two projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105506	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105507	I don't want to get into the controversy at all how high-quality projects are because it's hard for me to argue with you in your conclusions. But it's a tragedy that both, even the third time we're talking about HE Tribal or whatever it's called, it's projects that were prepared, which were supposed to be completed in 2012, which should have been started and where it should've been quite speaking to the local environment, so if you don't go coal, the gas is going. If the environmental protection of the animal world in Ombla is simply the problem, a solution should be found. But we all forget that for three years, the water years, unfortunately we have floods and remember 2011. We've imported 50% of our electricity, 50%. Tomorrow, it's always said seven dry, seven watery. What are we gonna do tomorrow? Well, we're not ready for dry years. We're going to import 50% again. What does that mean for our foreign trade? We import all the energy, import the derivatives. Well, Croatia has always been an exporter of derivatives. Instead of importing oil, we import derivatives. We didn't do anything on the INA. Both refineries are closing. Well, they're high-paid jobs, they're experts, they're well-paid jobs. We're closing those jobs. Well, there's no way the Hungarians are telling you Sisak is going to close. It's madness, no one has a right! Well, they signed to go inside because they're going to rebuild Sisak and they have no right to choose. I don't give a shit about his profits. Croatia's energy stability is the most important thing. In four years, what did we do? Nothing. We pray to God that it will be a water year, so we will have the production of hydropower, cheap electricity, and on the other hand small imports. But it's not an energy policy and in that part there are complete failures.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105508	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105509	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Linic, you've gone a little deeper than this CNB report, and it might be good for us in this House to discuss it that way. I would like to touch only one segment, you mentioned it in part, which is the biggest structural problem of the expenditure side of the state budget. So we have a pension system on one side, on the other side of the public service. The two uses about 72 billion budgets, which means about 70% of the budget. On the one hand, they place a high burden on the economy and make the economy uncompetitive, while on the other, creating a huge deficit in the budget. And while one segment, it's a public sector, can only be solved by reforms this other one can sort of be solved with increased employment and some other tax redistribution. And that is why it is fascinating that in Croatia we are not at all concerned that we have lost 200,000 jobs. We have lost 200 thousand people who pay taxes, who pay contributions, and who have a significant impact on the blood count of both the local self-government unit and the state. And a month ago, we had the opportunity to listen to the praises of how we were in debt at a historically low rate of 3.25. The credit risk coefficient of the Republic of Croatia is currently 2.85. At the worst years when euribor was 10 times higher than today, that risk coefficient was between 3 and 3.5. However, the countries we would like to measure with are the Czech Republic, Slovakia, etc. have that coefficient from 0.75 to 1. And that means that their government debt is 1,85 or 2 percentage points lower than Croatian, and that also means the private sector's debt. Because ultimately one reason for historically low interest is the total inactivity of the private sector. And we, if in this House, don't start talking like that, move away from politics, then unfortunately, we'll still be swallowing some of the jokes that lead us where they're taking us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105510	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105511	Yeah, I agree with my colleague that we're at least talking about the pension system. The peace system records 17.5 billion minus yearly. And this year we'll have 17,5 if not more than billions of minuses in the Peace Fund. And we're all fighting how to solve that problem. Low pensions, average pensions below living standards, you can't cut the number of pensioners because you have 300 thousand people at the office. How do you solve that? Well, I'm just counting the employees. And we've come from a million and a half on or we'll be there by the end of the year maybe a million and 300. It's the biggest tragedy. Because it took us a million-and-a-half to get to a million-and-a-half to catch our breath because that's when the pension deficit would be solved. Yes, the reforms are foreseen in the pension system we'll raise the entrance to 67 years, but it's for the future. But how do you solve the current deficit? And the answer is only one, we can solve it through the number of employees. And the number of employees is unfortunately state investments. There with many theorists I disagree, I claim state investments are opening an investment market in the Republic of Croatia. When will the private sector invest? But if he can't prove himself on Croatian projects he can't go out, he has no reference to go out. And that's our biggest problem. Imagine references to hydropower plants, thermal power plants, refineries, railway lines. These are references that should be received by our builders, our engineers, our electronics and everyone else. Unfortunately, we don't provide that. And that's the basic problem. State investments that will open up a simple investment sector. And of course, I say, imagine here are the Japanese, walking from left to right, no one receives them from the government or from the top of the HEP. So is that the way we want to show foreign investors?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105512	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105513	Dear colleagues of the vice president, MPs and MPs. Every time one of the institutions in Croatia comes before the Parliament and submits its report, it turns out that everyone in this country is doing well and the situation is getting worse and worse. Thus, this report of the Croatian National Bank contains a lot of thanks with the conclusion that the situation is not good. Reading the report and listening to Mr. Deputy Governor's opening words today, I came to the conclusion that from the name of this institution the word "national", the Croatian National Bank should be left out because it, by its results, and by its achievements and influences and monetary and fiscal policy, is two tools to conduct the overall economic policy indeed, in my opinion did not deserve to bear the name of the National Bank. It would rather be the HBB, the Croatian Bank of Banks. But let's go back to the text of the report that came in the first six months of last year. Gross foreign reserves of 12.3 billion euros, if I'm not mistaken, net reserves were about 10.4 billion. We still haven't received an answer to one of my very important questions who, when and based on whose decisions he sold gold. At what prices or at what price is gold sold? How much did Croatia lose by selling gold because of major price changes on the market? On behalf of Croatian citizens, who decided that Croatia will get rid of the reserve in gold? No one wants to answer which meeting, who was present with the name and last name of the people who made the decision to sell the gold. Speaking of foreign exchange reserves, it's interesting that I've found the answer to what's been bothering me so far where they are or where they're investing. Most American and German government bonds. So the Croatian state has huge domestic, economic, economic problems, public debt, foreign debt through the Croatian National Bank each year helps develop the US, primarily the US and German economies with a huge amount of funding. But just mentioning the request or suggestion that the Croatian National Bank could buy out Croatian bonds, state bonds are heresy, that's forbidden. Not only by law, you can't even talk about it. The fact that the European Bank buys government bonds from euro area members and a few years ago it was declared here with nothing. According to thanks in this report, a stable exchange rate of kuna relative to the euro. Okay. Croatia is a highly Eurosed country, it writes, well, it has contributed to the high euroisation of Croatia? Citizens of foreign savings? That's not true. Citizens have the most kuna savings and foreign exchange clauses. It wasn't the banks that brought the foreign exchanges, it was the kunas, and the banks approved the currency clause, but let's let it go now. So if the kuna is constantly stable compared to the euro, for years we've been listening to what, the exchange clause? Well, the currency clause is introduced in countries when the national currency is unstable. But Kuna, the euro, thanks to the CNB, we have a stable course. The Croatian National Bank is one of the biggest enemies, opposed to the idea of banning the foreign exchange clause. And he finds the kuna stable compared to the euro for years. The foreign exchange clause, the variable interest rate more or less on all loans through a unilateral bank decision, and now the report says that banks had 7.7 billion extra liquidity in the first six months of last year, which is 2 billion and 700 million more than in 2013. So in the first six months of last year, the surplus liquidity increased by 2.7 billion kuna. They made a billion kuna in the first six months. I hope the exact data I have for the whole of 2014 is 2.5 billion, which is a quarter, 25% more than 2013. The share of non-income loans from 15.7 was increased to 16.6 so by 0.9%. So where's the profits from these banks? So where did those 2.5 billion kunas end up? Because at the same time, it's been established that bank credit activity is going down. In banks abroad, an extremely solid profit with an extremely high reserve in excess liquidity. Banks in Croatia earn profits and bring them abroad, and credit activity in Croatia falls, especially towards the economy. In six years, 12 billion kunas of profits have gone abroad. We are a rich country and everything we achieve is being brought abroad and we finance other people's economies, but at the same time the banks have reduced interest on citizens' deposits and more than there has been a drop in interest on loans. Banks don't want citizens' deposits when they cut interest rates. Expansive monetary policy is the only possible, good, best and we'll stay with it. She's relying on cutting policy. It would be good for all those who have not yet recognized all the dangers of cutting policy to read the book Cutting-The History of a dangerous idea, a young American economist named Mark... so they may understand why from America the warnings of the harmfulness of such a policy come again. There are two people in this country, and this is Mr. Milanovic and Mr. Vujčić, their last name is singled out because of the functions they conduct, who do not understand that kuna or money, however you will, which is not spent cannot be earned. The best evidence and consequences of cutting policy in this part of Europe is Croatia. Or it's even less understood that by agreeing to less pay to keep the job is a loss for everyone and the state and that it's an economic and social circle that has no way out. Monetary policy in Croatia is good and must not be changed. Fiscal policy has done its part of the job and must not be changed, and there is no result. The second thanks in this report is that the second objective of the existence of the CNB has been achieved, price stability, exchange rate stability and price stability. 100% price stability is achieved at a zero inflation rate. So it turns out that the CNB goal is also the inflation rate 0. But there is also deflation besides inflation. At the beginning of last year, the IMF director said about the following: if inflation is a spirit, deflation is a monster and a spiral of donations in which there is neither investment nor development nor new jobs or progress. So deflation is a monster. What does this threat to Croatia say in this report? If I'm going to quote correctly, it says the following. Such movements, therefore, are first found to have been achieved in the area of prices in the first 6 months of last year -0.4% at the end of June of last year. Such movements primarily reflect deflation pressures from the external environment and then poor personal consumption and the absence of domestic cost pressures. So this report finds that this start of deflation in Croatia is an import deflation because it is the result of pressure from the external environment. It's a quote from this report. Does the CNB signal the alarm? No, not in any way, but it keeps repeating that it's about external pressure. Gross investments if I did charts that were given in this report well interpreted, in the first 6 months gross investments in fixed capital -5%. It's a chart on page 7. Employment with a million 620 grand has come to a million 420 thousand employees. It's a chart on page 9. GDP after a slight recovery in the first quarter of last year, the second quarter back in case I'm not wrong, 0.3. It's a chart on page 6. So all indicators say that just the deflation effect in Croatia has strengthened the decline in fixed capital investment, that it is partly the cause of the drop in employment and the continuation of the negative GDP movement. The drop in prices for some is good because they claim that there is an increase in purchasing power, however, and this is also said in the introduction that this is still not happening in Croatia. In the deflation environment, there is a psychological effect of refraining from buying and expecting even lower prices, and I think that this has just started to happen in Croatia, and that these expectations of an even greater drop in price directly affect the decline of tax revenues, the decline of production, the decline of employment and that spiral, the devil's spiral continues to destroy economic tissue. Since the Croatian National Bank has estimated that the dangers of eflation in Croatia do not exist at all, not only in this report, but today I am starting to conclude that the CNB has reached its legal objectives on price stability, exchange rate stability and that they are satisfied. However, I believe that this is about the missing purpose of monetary policy and that we have come to the situation that banks that have 7.7 billion excess liquidity and 2 and a half billion profits reduce credit activity, which is causing huge damage to the Republic of Croatia, citizens and the economy. That the economy is without investment and development and without favourable credit ratings, and that citizens remain in debt slavery and blockades precisely by inaction and silence by the CNB. I express the shame of the CNB that after so many calls and calls, it is not possible to give an overly public response to crime in Croatia that is happening by Raiffeisen's savings bank silently as they have kept silent all along and on those credit ads glued to tram stations and lighting pillars by pretending that this is not their problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105514	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105515	Thank you very much, dear colleague Lesar. In fact, I had to replicate because the CNB doesn't need to change its name, it just needs to change politics. They don't need to be statisticians, they need to be co-creators. Namely, when you look at the Croatian banking system, and I say it under quotes, when you see that the stake in the market Austrians holds 59.4%, Italians 18.5, Hungarians 4.1, French 6.7, Czechs 0.3 and third countries 0.6, we get to 90%. I don't know what about that Tesla bank? No one mentions it in the reports, so it's probably the Serbs holding a piece. But it's important to say if our foreign-owned banks aren't, we don't need to change our name, we just need to change our policy. And you stated in your statement that we are a rich country. We may have been a rich country, but today we are a country of poor people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105516	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105517	Comrade Bubalo, the name sometimes maintains content. You said not to change the name but to politics, politics of the Croatian National Bank. This is only possible when the governor of the Croatian National Bank at least listened to what has to be said and submitted a certain responsibility if the state of the country is not well. Do you remember that since the Croatian National Bank, anyone has ever had any responsibility or consequences for poor monetary policy? Did she have one policy that was changing power in Croatia to question monetary policy? And did we not, by amending the 2010 Constitution, create from the Croatian National Bank a state institution within a state that has more power than an executive and representative joint?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105518	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105519	I thank the esteemed vice president. Comrade Lesar, you asked in your debate where she ended up winning, I assume you meant these 1.6 billion from the first half of 2014. So, that profit is actually still the accounting category, in fact to be precise these days should be known how much profit has really been achieved in 2014 and of course what its destiny will be during the 2015 deployment. But we know how she ended the 2013 profit, so it's said exactly in this information that most of it is aimed at capital reserves, and several banks paid both dividends and profits achieved in 2013, but also from profits achieved earlier years. So the retained profit with all the capital reserves at the end of the first term is over 30% of the capital and that's good. So, I don't want to be a bank lawyer, but the high capitalisation of banks in Croatia is welcome in this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105520	Dragutin Lesar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105521	Comrade Jelash, I saw that part. So, you're wondering for 2014 what data will be paid for 2013. Who? Owners. Who are the owners? Banks abroad are the owners of our banks, so profits are paid to them. For 2014 Two and a half billion get about the information that's been published so far. I doubt that 2 and a half billion will get at least part of it for reserves, because they have extra money, they have extra capital to finance the economy of other countries, not Croatia. And why is that? Do you think one of the institutions that should answer that question is not the CNB, for example? That's why I've been talking about it, and that's why I'm terribly reserved when we praise the high stability of banks because it's only the citizens of this country's burden, and profit, and profit from such stability is not picked up by citizens or by the economy of this country but by someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105522	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105523	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Vice Governor, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. Before that, a colleague named Lesar asked where the Croatian gold was? It is true that we all know that Croatia no longer has a single gram of gold in its quotes "golden reserves". We sold, not us, but the CNB, in 2001, 13.1 tons of gold for $117.2 million. Today would be worth an incomparably more. Normally, interest is something on that money that's won. So I said gold was sold in 2001, that's the first gold we got through the succession for ex Yugoslavia, 28.49% of the amount, and the second time 29.11., the symbolic date no', 2005 we sold the remaining gold that was left in the Central Bank in Zurich and France. And then we got an extra 31.1 million dollars. In total, all the quantities we received through the succession or that belonged to the Republic of Croatia were sold for $148.7 million. That's too bad! It's small, of 600 million euros, excuse me 600 million kuna. It would be incomparably more than that today. However, I didn't mean to talk about it, but now to return directly to this half-yearly information on the financial situation of the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for 2014. Thus, the total loans of banks from loans portfolios and gross claims amounted to HRK 279,9 billion at the end of 2014. The level of credit decreased compared to 2013 by 7 billion kuna. That's 2.4% without the impact of the course. Thus, such a strong, nominal decrease in loans at the half-yearly level of the bank was last recorded in the second half of 2012, but the majority of these changes were driven by the sale of the claim. The reduction in credit in the first half of this year or in 2014 reflects better the deleveraging of all institutional sectors and the state units sector has preceded 2.1 billion kuna. In the first half of 2014, loans fell to the most significant sectors, such as companies and populations, which together account for more than 80% of the total portfolio of loans given. And now to go to this table on the side of the 37th state unit, at the end of that observed period, in 2013, they borrowed, say, 43 billion kuna. Trade companies, worth 107.9 billion kuna, totalling 286.8 billion kuna. The population is in charge of $123.6 billion, out of which housing loans are €57 billion, €3 billion mortgages, car purchase loans 2.1 billion, credit cards 3.8 billion, overruns by transaction accounts, that is amazing, which our interest is charged with 8.3 billion, etc., etc. For trade companies of € 107.9 billion, credits for crafts are €39 billion, for investments of only €27 billion, and this falls rapidly from year to year. With 12.6 billion kuna credits indicated, the construction of loans is 4.7 billion kuna and some 23 billion kunas remain. What's certainly not good for our banks to do bad business. It's not good that the state is showing these deficits and that citizens are squirming or better said that our companies are failing, citizens are squirming in problems that I was thinking about. It's harder for everyone today than it was yesterday and yesterday was harder than the day before yesterday. The best testimony and what we talked about yesterday is that number of executions. I said, housing loans are 55.6 billion kuna for citizens, mortgage additional 3 billion kuna while loans for construction companies are 4.7 billion kuna. In 2010, there were 3664 executions over citizens' real estates, 2011. 4266, 2012. 4786, 2013. 6733, 2014 6658. Only in the last five years has it gone to drum 26 107 housing can we say unit or property. That's cca brother to his brother 2 billion euros. Most of the properties that ended in the drum in 2014 since 6658 were in Istria, as much as 22% or 1455. In Zagreb, which has 4 times as many inhabitants as 601, in the Primorje-Gorski County, which has 80,000 residents 416, in Osijek County which has 50% more inhabitants than Istria 508 and I really don't understand what's going on down there with me? Why is it that the area of 4.5% of the population has 22% of the real estate? Why is that just a case? Are we lagging behind or simply investing in this real-estate business, stopped tourism, stopped shopping, and everything just collapsed. We can also talk about public debt, but later on, we can talk about employment, we can talk about job losses, over-indebtedness, etc. The fact is there is no investment that he spoke of before, Mr. Linic, but who will invest in Croatia if the individual simply recalibrates. One, two, five such examples and normally come here no one else will. As the Croatian economy stands, as our budget stands, the best I would say shows the laws we discussed yesterday, means the Law on consumer bankruptcy or the Law on the Shortening of Material Rights in Public Services either on the basis of years of employment, regression, Christmas, etc. Only those two laws weigh 650 million kuna. This half-yearly information goes one step further, not ambiguously analysing capital flows, public finances, monetary policy bank positions, etc. Among other things, it is said here that at the end of June 2014, 35 credit institutions, 29 banks, one savings bank and 5 housing savings banks were operating in the Republic of Croatia, as at the end of 2013. Their assets amounted to 400 million kuna, a decrease from 2013 to 1.3% and a decline as a result of a reduction in the assets of banks and housing savings banks. On page 29, it is said and I think it is important that in the first half of 2014 the assets of the banks decreased due to the reduction of foreign exchange rates by 7.3 billion kuna or 3% while the kuna part of the assets increased by 2.2 billion kuna or 1.1%. More than a reduction in the bank's total foreign exchange assets was a decrease in foreign net loans of 8.1%). And when we talk about profit and loss account, it means when we talk about profit, so according to the bank's provisional unaudited data, in the first half of 2014, they made 1 billion and 600 million kuna profits from the business that will continue to mean before tax, which was for 310.3 million kuna or 24.6% more than in the first half of 2013. The growth in profits would have been slightly milder, the 18.3% report said, if one bank dealing with losses had been excluded from the data for the first half of 2013 and went bankrupt at the end of 2013. A significant improvement in bank business results by almost a quarter is in fact a reflection of the strong changes in results in relatively small numbers of banks. Thus, the growth of profits had a crucial impact on the changes in 3 banks. We also know why, but the profits grew by 45.8 and 203.6%, respectively, more than in the period last year. However, this should also be pointed out by the losses of 10 banks, one less than in 2013, but the total loss amount was higher and amounted to HRK 160 million and the share of the assets of banks that were operating with losses decreased there. So what's important is to point out for sure that 2013. 11 banks worked negatively, in 2014 10 of them. The revenues from the commission and the fees from the banks are 2 billion kunas clearly reduced by 600 million kunas the cost of these same incomes and commissions. And it would be clearly good to see, I was talking about it I also had tables on the bonuses of our leading bankers. I'm sure it may reach that year by year I'll say it by heart now 20 or more million kunas. The more expensive the state is, we know it's an economy that's weaker, the more it's taken, the more we have to say it simply by doing it. The 2014 budget seems to me 113 billion kuna, in 2013, we had a recent revision of the local self-government of these 577 units income 23 billion kuna. Brussels is now seeking a reduction in the deficit by an additional 1.7 to 2 billion kuna. Today I read that we have some 190 I know of the agency, some para-state institutions that question who needs it but the fact is that nearly 350 thousand people work in the upgrade in the Republic of Croatia. For the salaries of 220, I find thousands of people on the budget to provide 21.5 billion kuna, and exactly last year, Croatia lost nearly 50,000 jobs, from the start of the 200 thousand crisis, and only last year the most likely route of abroad went to about 45 thousand kuna. We don't have accurate data, but we do know that Germany has issued nearly 24 thousand work permits. I personally think that the Croatian National Bank is doing well, I will tell you that it is in some way a pillar of stability of the state, clearly that the kuna should be kept to paraphrase one great statesman "as a pupil of my own eye." And what is also important may be to mention that the profits of THT in 2013 were greater than the profits of all the 35 banks in Croatia that were operating positively. Clearly, the profits of 20 banks may be relatively modest but 2.3 banks are incomeing annually, so we're talking about profit maybe and 2.5 billion kuna. Banks must help some prolonged payments to both citizens and companies. Prolonging is hard to get a write-off but conditions need to be tempered. And I told the public debt I don't have any more time, but I see that the HDZ who ruled 17 years on average owed Croatia 7.1 billion kuna, the left government on average for 15.1 billion kuna. It clearly doesn't reveal anything but we have to wake up from sleep and once again I'll tell the Kun to watch as the pupil of my eye. And the fact that public debt is already alarming, that it will exceed 90% this year is more than clear to everyone and I will personally support this information.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105524	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105525	Dear Deputy President, Deputy Governor, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, we have before us half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. There's a lot of it already said, but we're certainly late for all this, so I'd say in the report, as we often do with politics. And it is the macroeconomy that is the science of evolutionary policies. But it is evident from these reports that neither the CNB has evolved nor the government has achieved the reforms it has promised, nor evolved in the past years. We stick to some policies as a drunk plate, but just when we talk about the economic problems of the Republic of Croatia, above all about economic growth, unemployment, inflation or the business cycle, then we can say that in these segments we have clearly failed. But when we look at this report, then we can tell the Croatian People's Bank what your goal was, which is liquidity and stability, that's what you've achieved. But just as we look at the course policy that my colleague Linic was talking about, when we see that the Swiss in 2009 was 4.93 and today it's 7 and something. The same dollar was 5.2 today is 7 and something. The euro was 7.35, today is 7.7. And we know exactly that we're tied to those currencies, normally for the euro most. That this is reflected in our energy policy as well as in all other policies in the Republic of Croatia. It is evident from this report that investment does not particularly exist when we talk about foreign investments. It is evident that we are still not growing the number of employees, although it is falling, but what we are particularly concerned about, especially in Slavonia and Baranja, that more and more young people are leaving the Republic of Croatia, but this event is not recorded in police administrations and it turns out that no one in Croatia is leaving or that only 35,000 people have left. So I'll tell you only around Osijek in one space of Slavonia and Baranja and live surely so many people have gone away. But I would also like to have seen today in these reports just when we talk about regional policy where it is Slavonia and Baranja, what investments were in Slavonia and Baranja, we would actually see that there is no investment. Likewise, if they pulled the parallel between loans and savings, it would be clear that Slavonia and Baranja were in charge and there is almost no savings in Slavonia and Baranja. Clearly, when we look at what is happening in the Republic of Croatia and it is you who are co-creators of macroeconomic policy that you should be there to direct and give suggestions. When we talk about the huge imports of food into the Republic of Croatia and when we see the difference between exports and imports, then we are very concerned. We know that Slavonia and Baranja can produce, can produce, that we are competitive but it seems that the Republic of Croatia still respects only importers and favours them. This is exactly where we would see politics and the Croatian National Bank if we had corrected our policies in that part. But when we look at the very structure of the bank's liabilities and capital, then it's clear that the time is coming, the time when we'll probably pay more expensive loans and there was a few words about it we're in a phase where and in a macroeconomic environment but I'd say on the world capital market we can positively borrow and we're in debt three times more expensive than the countries in our environment. So by estimating in the HDSSB what will happen in 2016 and 2017 then we can certainly be concerned about politics and the CNB but also about the stability of the Republic of Croatia. I was just talking about bank ownership. We almost don't have Croatian banks, the only thing left for us is the CNB that should create or co-create politics and give guidance to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We are now discussing last year's report rather than looking at where we are in 2016 and what the CNB predicts will happen by 2020. I fear these images would be black, so that the anger will catch us in this Croatian Parliament predicting what will happen in the next years when we can no longer be in debt and when the price of capital will be much more expensive for us. But we also express our concern because we know that a good part of the credit arrangements when a war comes to an end just as well as the principal and a good part of those, I would say credit arrangements can reach us at some point. But when we look at the analysis and we say that the CNB is a statistic instead of a Sucreator, then when we see that property in banks is 59.4% Austria, 18.5 Italy, Hungary 4.1%. In the market, also French with 6.7% of Czech Republic 0.3 and other third countries 0.6%, which clearly indicates that over 90% of the market in the Republic of Croatia is held by foreign banks where we will hardly be able to direct their policy and what they will do in the coming time. We see that the citizens owe us, but we are very concerned about these 15 billion 884 million retained profits. We are concerned because at some point when the CNB wants to implement politics and the government may even be more determined towards foreign banks, I am afraid that at one point foreign banks in the Republic of Croatia will be withdrawn, which is almost 16 billion kuna. This is what our concern is and we want to share it with all the Croatian public, but we also show the CNB that it is high time to face the problem, to face the external trade deficit, to face the general government deficit and to say that different policies must be implemented. Everyone forgot about Plan 21 in Croatia, but the plans were but we can see that nothing was realized. Well, we had a chance to see the Greek minister often saying exports grow, our exports grow, so here at 1 month, and he ran out of text when he saw our exports dropped by 7%, and imports fell by 15% as well. In Croatia, there are serious tectonic events I would say disturbances on the capital market, but what it feels like under credit arrangements, after the decline of credit activity. So when we look at the banks between ourselves, but also when we look at the deposit table with 275 billion i.e. 282 2013 to 279, so the drop is for nearly 3 billion exactly deposits. But also when we look at retained profits, it is huge and certain that we can expect soon and withdraw and gain in some countries where laws are probably more flexible, where there is someone else who is not overindebted and in Croatia there are almost no such ones. They'll tell you in Slavonia and Baranja that they're not here. Also when we analyze the account of profits and the loss of banks, when we look at fees and fees, when we look at that over 2 billion kuna is just income and that it grew by 3.6% in the last year then we see banks shouting at our citizens, our companies that can still be in debt and which are creditworthy. What's evident is that our citizens feel that we're in deep crisis too, so I'd say what was avoided in 2008 is that we're in a banana, and it feels like we slipped off on that banana, that's to control their consumption. Without spending, there's no new cycle. But also when we look at credit arrangements, when we see that human beings are the only overruns left by transactions. According to credit cards that are also increasing, it amounts to 3 billion and 801 million, when we look at overruns by transactions by 8 billion and 429 million and it is increasing, it clearly says that our fellow citizens are at the limit of endurance and when we link it to the savings drop, then we also see that the last funds are being spent just to survive, so that their families can exist and that they do not go outside the Republic of Croatia today. But I also want to say that when it comes to reforms, they were not there, but the often announced capital investments by the state are not there, and we all know that such an investment cycle is needed for a longer period of time. But what we are particularly concerned about in the HDSSB is that it has been denied to municipalities, cities and counties nearly 2 billion kuna, and we know that the most European projects for European funds are the most, and there would be multiple resources. We see here that there will be no opportunity to gain the power to participate and to multiply the funds to attract capital investments and to attract grants. I expected today to be discussed by the CNB and your predictions when we talk about our fellow citizens' creditworthiness, and most of all what we care about is the issue of Swiss, and to hear your forecasts even though we know the forecasts can change in a week or two days. But what is important, just the best and most professional, the most competent people work mostly in the CNB and can see what is going to happen in the Republic of Croatia so that both the Government and the RES, the Ministry of Finance and other ministries can prepare themselves for what is coming. We also had the opportunity to see how almost all the ministries had conditional audits, so when we look at banks operating in the Republic of Croatia, they adhere to the rules but we also see the classification of B and C credit arrangements which clearly rang the alarm, to increase, especially when we talk about credit arrangements in Switzerland, and we were all aware that people couldn't handle loans in euro, and therefore they were in debt in Switzerland. When we see that the good part of the credit arrangements is just tied to the Swiss then we expect both your recommendation and your suggestion exactly what to do with these credit arrangements so that people can unload and finally see freedom, so that they can function. Because by looking at the Slavonian and Baranja farmers the same products as in 2008, in the same way, they produce the same amount as in 2008, and he worked on a business plan in 2008, when he took out a loan, but it is evident that his incentives have dropped, his prices went up, and then his ability to return credit arrangements was limited. And here we see that we have entered a circle where for years it was not meant to be said that the creditors do not talk and talk to the debtors but that they have levers and are protected and implement one of their own policies to get to the real estate, to get to certain companies and those resources that were owned or owned by certain companies or state-owned. It shows that we have failed and it is seen when we spoke yesterday that 322 thousand of our citizens are blocked then it is seen that we are late, that we should have taken these measures several years ago to help the population, and without a healthy population there are no healthy banks, without healthy businesses, there are no healthy banks. And then surely we can expect credit arrangements to get worse and we have worse and worse credit arrangements, and then we will have a situation that the National Banks will bring some measures or the Croatian National Bank will bring some measures that will no longer be implemented, which will no longer be possible to implement. We're also concerned about the possibility of reducing the bank's balance sheet to... Time and especially what is already seen with 2 billion euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is bank deleveraging towards the queens' banks, and it is already evident that the queens' banks are running their policies, assessing how capital will be enriched and it is seen that they are slowly extracting capital from the Republic of Croatia. It is also evident that we have done almost nothing to attract foreign investors, to get in Croatia at least some of the productions that are in our environment we see going into these greenfield investments. We have worked zones for years, but we see that no one comes into these zones, and by looking at the Croatian tax system then we can also say that the CNB has not suggested, it has not been co-created and we expect the CNB to talk about forecasts as well as finally being a policy co-creator. Because it's not enough that we at the Croatian Parliament a year after something happened to talk. It is much more important where we will be in 2020 and how many people will live in that Croatia in 2020. And I'm afraid and I'm worried about where we'll be in 2020, and just as many Croats will be in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105526	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas. Drazen Pandek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105527	Here's a thank you, dear colleague. In your presentation, you said that basically this government and the current policy actually suits the importers. However, I think the data is denying you. That's simply not true, because for last year we had essentially an export growth of 8.4%. Of these, exports to EU countries were 11.8% and more than 50 billion kuna. Therefore, it is obvious that the measures that go towards the promotion of exports produce results and that some of the measures have been taken that have allowed such figures to increase exports. Another thing I'd like to look back on is a constant complaint in essence that we don't have banks in Croatian ownership. I would agree that Croatia lacks a strong export bank for which unfortunately we do not have enough resources, so when we want to export our trams, we do not have enough resources to support such a policy with a few billion. He simply lacks funds for such strong export incentives. It's a simple fact. When we say Siemens wants to export their trams they have a far stronger bank behind them. They just have money. But speaking of Croatian-owned banks, I think the privatisation of the 1990s has shown that if someone buys for example a large dairy industry that it is completely irrelevant whether it is a Croat, whether it is a German, whether it is a Spanish. After that he sells it, takes the money out, and then their ex-wives give us lessons in Mary Antoinette's style about why we're poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105528	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105529	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Well, here's often someone praises, someone doesn't praise the government, but our citizens feel best about what's going on in the Republic of Croatia whether the government works or doesn't. But that's what the election's gonna show for it. But you were just talking about the Greek prognosis, so I once said it was good, so it's not a hydrometeorologist because it would probably be rain for us instead. Well, I also want to say that in the first month, we had a 7% drop in exports and we had a 15% drop in imports. So you probably watched the Greeks' prognosis, and I watched the statistics. That's where our numbers differ.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105530	Thank you. Tomislav Jagar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105531	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bubalo, it is true that already today, and in the future, we must certainly turn to the future because we are an EU member towards the generous funds available. And just the regional agency in Osijek-Baranja County from which you come is to praise her work and on her pages I saw that there are 394 projects of which 279 were implemented, and 102 were implemented. The value is 239 million euros. You're in your debate somehow, I don't know if you unconsciously or consciously said that nothing is, it's not true that nothing is being invested. We can talk about whether it's enough. Here's only in the city of Osijek one and a half billion kuna goes into infrastructure projects. So these are the figures that matter to Slavonia. Do you need more, I'm saying we can talk about it. And there's an investment in road construction in my county. Here's a virtual bypass, slightly less than 100 million kuna without VAT. These are things that are not negligible. What you're talking about agriculture and competitiveness in agriculture is certain that all those who took credit and who in some way pushed people into loans, and I think that I'm going to do it again when the Agronomic chamber comes back to life and when someone is responsible for that part of the story with which he's pushing a man into a loan, by his calculations that the situation will be much better, that these people are in difficulty and should certainly help them. But in future planning when talking about funds, the project needs to be well planned in order not to repeat such a situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105532	Thank you, too. The answer of my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105533	Thank you very much. Well, here's an esteemed colleague, I was saying that until recently, units such as municipalities, cities and counties had the most funds withdrawn from the EU funds, and that's true. The regional development agency Slavonia and Baranja is the strongest in that part and has really withdrawn funds. But what we feel after this amendment to the Law of Income Loss that municipalities, cities and counties will lose 2 billion, will not be involved. And they all go into loan arrangements now, and these credit arrangements don't go into the responsibility of local administration units, but the loans have to go back. That's the problem, it's the problem that awaits us in the coming months because they won't have municipalities, cities and county forces to finance their projects. You just said it nicely when it comes to Osijek, and here I am preparing the project 72m euros collector, etc. and I know it took us four years to prepare a project, to secure funding, etc. So the investment cycle can't be run overnight and say so now we're going to run the investment cycle. It's a job that's long-term, long-term, and surely we all want it to happen together. But looking at tax policy like this, it will not happen by municipalities, cities and counties. But also when you mentioned agricultural loans earlier, the responsibility of chambers, okay, the responsibility of the people who did business plans in order but also we need to make it clear today where the responsibility of the CNB is, where the government is responsible because people's business plans worked on certain calculations when we talk about incentive policy, when we talk about other policies. But it is evident that these policies change in one day, and you have made your business plan for the next 10 years. Now, that would be good if we had certain forecasts by the Ministry of Finance, by the Croatian government, and especially by the people we expect from, and that is the Croatian National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105534	Thank you. Marijan Škurić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105535	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, yes, indeed when you spoke in your debate about part of the degree of price stability, the implementation of monetary policy we agreed and agreed with you that the achievements that are today in this year are not very bright and in some way and... the speed above all is not on the one that we all wanted to be satisfied with. But you took advantage of all the problems that are now present not only in Croatia but also beyond, you used the term that this country is in bananas. I just want to ask you a little bit if you know who first mentioned that term that the state is in a banana? I'm not gonna say and talk about names but after that person took a huge number of bags with full money and wanted to get out but of course we brought it back. Also pictures and also watches that were also found and now we're waiting for what this country is going to do with it. Of course, the party in question is also still on the defendant's bench, and there are also bags by the safes that happened to be there. And I think that's the same part of why we're in trouble here today and we have that. But you mentioned another thing, how to get out of it, you were talking about EU funds. Yes, 11 billion is at our disposal, and I still have to say, regardless of all of this, it depends most on us on local self-government for what you've noticed. In my view, it's the best form of decentralisation because we know best what and how our area, our city, our municipality has resources that have the potential to exploit them. No one can tell us that either in Zagreb or in Brussels, anywhere else. But to take advantage of that, we need to have resources, first of all, as much as human resources are, so are financial resources. Little in some things you said that Slavonia received and used the assistance of the EU Fund, while saying that Slavonia in that part, and that is a fact, is quite in an underdeveloped and subordinate position. And the question is, where did these money go and where were they invested?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105536	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105537	I don't mean to go back to reverse at all, and what was a few years ago, institutions are doing their part of the job. But what is much more important for us, we will not talk about spilled milk, it is much more important for us where we will be in 2020, where Slavonia and Baranja will be and whether anyone will live in Slavonia and Baranja. This is what we are interested in and that is what we need to talk about in the Croatian Parliament, and we are talking about what happened a year ago, and especially this is about what happened 6 and 7 years ago. We're much more interested in what we're doing today so we can get better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105538	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105539	Thank you very much. You spoke to your colleague Bubalo about as much as I did yesterday when I fought a verbal battle here to tell the leftists or the Kukurik coalition about the assessment of the state of the economy, the economy, and therefore the business of the CNB domain. So, I talked about it all the way you did today, so they said I was talking about blackness unfairly because here the government is taking a lot of steps to make that blackness suddenly dawns on us that in these seven, eight months that remain until the election, right? The fact that the indicators you were talking about are, therefore, the drop in exports, about the decline in industrial production which is also very important as an indication that the number of unemployed stagnates or even increases, about the decrease in the number of employees, which is the worst, and at the time when we have so when here is the pre-season and tourist season when people at least temporarily hired in tourism, about leaving the Republic, about what will happen with Slavonia. That's a special concern. But when someone's already talking here, and you said, about an export bank that would support so the exporters we're in HDSSB remember talking, and no one mentions, about the agro-bank. So the agricultural bank that would have just compensated and helped place the product and the larger export of agriculture. Nobody talks about it anymore, nobody in this country knows about it, this government. And look, one of the biggest banks in France is exactly the agricultural bank even funding a big football club that's on the European stage, right? So in one France, the agricultural bank is one of the strongest banks, agro-banks in France. At our place, we don't have any agro-banks. HBOR doesn't help, they don't want to get into credit arrangements with farmers. And then they say agriculture is weak. Well, of course she's weak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105540	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105541	Dear colleague Grubisic, namely, when we look at these statistics, then we can say that they are bad and we're not happy with them, but it's much more important today to talk about what we can do to make it better. So here you mentioned and detected several points because we know that people in Slavonia and Baranja know how to produce, that they can be competitive, but it takes a little export policy, but we've been implementing import policy for years, and the governments have been changing, but they've just favored import lobbys. HBOR, part of it has been stimulated but we are now coming into a problem where there is no guarantee, where there are no guarantees that people could come to credit arrangements because I would say they have burdened the mortgages of what generations of Slavs and Baranjacs have gained in the hope that by their work, the hard work will make some shift. But it is evident that we have had one crazy policy in agriculture, that these policies have not led to hardworking people working 20 hours a day to live from their hands and work. However, Croatia also needs an AGO bank, the necessary and guaranteed fund is seen that the fastest possible growth of Slavonia and Baranja, Slavonia and Baranja is in the most difficult situation but has the best perspective, the best reference that this accelerated development can happen is just a little bit of wisdom and a little different relationship with Slavonia and Baranja, and we expect that from the next Croatian government at last.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105542	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Governor, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would suggest to all of us that we conclude here that we are discussing such reports no later than 3 months after the expiry of the time period, especially in such a turbulent time when the situation does not change half-yearly but monthly because this report simply fits. Fortunately, the deputy governor, in his opening work, focused on some things that could relate to fiscal policy, to the laws passed by this high house, and therefore is a surprising opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In her opinion, the government of the Republic of Croatia said there were no objections to the half-yearly financial situation information, and this half-yearly report is in financial condition speaking in the diametric opposite of what members of the government are saying. And now you're looking at colleagues and colleagues, we're discussing something today, and we have the government's opinion, so the government agrees completely with this report, and that's totally contrary to what we had with the report on the implementation of the state budget because it's a document that I'm Pandaming this document because the implementation of the state budget for the first six months is a document that tells us what the effects of the fiscal and economic policy of the Republic government were in the first six months. Both colleagues and colleagues when you compare these two documents she will see that either this document by a colleague from the CNB does not indicate the right situation or the government has given an opinion without controlling its documents and these are facts. Why? So, first of all, the deputy governor immediately said that the banking sector, in general the financial sector, has a significant surplus of liquidity, means that the financial resources in Croatia are not controversial and are available to everyone, that practically the government had programmes, that it created conditions and preconditions for the private sector, that they had the opportunity to reach these funds. And what you would like to say here may be the biggest, most significant quality and monetary and fiscal policy in the past 6 years that we have managed to preserve a stable financial sector regardless of all earthquakes, regardless of what 30% of the loans that are placed on legal persons today have so-called. A category of bad loans and that could be said, if I get there I'm going to say something about it, but it's something that gave us the platform first of all policy to implement the reform. Unfortunately, however, in these years of crisis, there was not enough political will to implement reforms and therefore we are where we are. However, it is very interesting that in this document the CNB says that there are no reforms, while the government is sending a document to Brussels saying that it will implement and these reforms and it is saying that it has implemented them and then we get a letter from the European Commission which in principle confirms what colleagues from the Central Bank wrote, which is that Croatia has not implemented reforms and some that implements that they are slow and what is most important that Croatia has an extremely macroeconomic vulnerability and then a few days after that a practical confirmation arrives because after the euphoria of growth, economic growth in the last quarter of last year comes a slap that industrial production during the month has fallen by 7%. It's the best confirmation of what those who keep looking at us from the side. And what else does this report say? It means reducing mandatory reserves and loans from the HBOR, colleagues and colleagues, which is a project that has already been going on for a good 5 years. However, it is a project that should have at least opened our eyes to politics, because those models A, B and C have unfortunately shown that the structure of a Croatian such economy is such that most of them are unable to in principle to borrow credit. And if such a fact was then this and she passed the government in order not to turn out now, she had to find a model to help those who have certain projects of quality, how to help them get those funds, how to give them a certain guarantee but again in a certain way and ensure themselves that it was some kind of generator of economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, things have changed. Today in 2014 we find the exact same thing that we realized after 6 months of application of the model a, b and c. And that is that all Croatian companies at that time are thirsty for trade capital and that was their biggest problem. Have we succeeded properly all these years and tried to answer that, obviously, we haven't. Because if we have 200 thousand jobs less, if we have a hundred thousand more unemployed than we had there in 2010, we obviously didn't respond. And that's why I think that's what my colleague Linic said I won't talk much on behalf of the club in this report, it's like that, it's made methodologically crystal clear, who knows it or doesn't know it can read out of it and see everything he needs. But this report should be talked about in the way of those laws that we unfortunately do not have in this House of Commons, so that we may force ourselves to talk about certain things when we talk about this House in this House of Commons there is no room for politics but simply to talk about facts with one single goal to help Croatian citizens live better. So that's it. It says the central bank that the daily liquidity of Croatian banks is 8 billion and that they still have 4 billion in the cash register. Do you know what that means? That means he's got as much money as you want. But if the banks prefer not to place it because they already have, they're already quite burdened with bad placements and they're paying the low interest they got, on which they got that loan from their mothers, or from someone else rather than going to risk it. However, no one here today has said anything else. Until a few months ago, the interest rate on hand-to-hand deposits with some benefits that were 0.25% were between 4 and 4.30, 4.40. Today everyone in which the Croatian bank can receive an interest rate greater than 2.1, 2.2%. So business banks are the cost of capital to be placed by someone else practically by 50%, or if you take today's interest, the interest seven, eight months ago was 100% higher. So the banks are following the trends that happen in Europe just did it. And you haven't heard any cry from Croatian citizens who have almost 200 billion savings that they are unhappy about it. It doesn't matter to anyone whether someone's reducing your interest from 4% to 2%, but it's just the facts. So the banks created a prerequisite to make the capital cheaper. Why does Croatia have such high capital? Why is it that if for years we have been told that our risk coefficient is so high because we are in unstable times, we do not know whether we will enter the European Union and have been well driven for years when we were in debt. But why today, when Croatia is a member of the European Union paying state and then public companies state and economy interest rates by 2% more than others, cannot automatically be competitive. Well, it's precisely because the reforms haven't been carried out. That Croatia did not send a clear signal. And maybe for a country that has such a very narrow and very poorly structured economy is the best combination of private and state investments. And if you have one or two successful state investment, which with its product will be competitive on the market and not have a monopoly, you send a clear signal to the private sector that Croatia is a country worth investing in, a country where you can conduct an investment, a country where you can produce a country where if you produce something, you can sell it out of quality. And then probably today we wouldn't be talking about a million and 300 thousand employees, but we'd probably be talking about a million and 500, a million and 600. Both the situation on both the expenditure and the revenue side of the budget would be different for us. But no, we're gonna have a political fight here. We're not fighting politically today. Why? So because they have 3, 4 institutions when they report to this High House then all for this and that reason refrain from political evaluations and stick to some relevant factors and indicators, and in this way we discuss. So it's your state audit, it's your Croatian National Bank, it's your state's attorney's office, and it's your new supreme judge. So they're all softly in gloves and running away from politics. Why? Because you can't argue politically with a governor or his deputy. They've come here, they've brought out concrete facts and they won't give up a millimeter. Why? Because it's just their job. And that's why this debate today in Parliament is what it is. So today the left-hand side of the assembly doesn't transfer to the right-hand side of the assembly that it's bad data. And let's say at the same time that we discussed the same things yesterday, then it was denied that it was. And that's why these reports are good, but I say they're good if we discuss them three months after the period. Why is the world and Europe at historically low interest rates today? One reason. After the economic crisis, the private sector's financial crisis has lowered the credit expansion to a minimum. And if you managed to hear unlike the representatives of our Vice-President of the Commission when he was here in this High House, he said that these 315 billion Juncker's plan was exclusively intended for the private sector, not for the states. The countries must create institutional frameworks for the private investor to come here but that does not mean that certain state investments that are interesting cannot be financed from it but why, whether the institution of that investment must be a state or someone else, that is, we answer the question. And when we talk about this reduction in the lending reserve, I would ask us here at the High House and also representatives of the Croatian National Bank to finally define the status of HBOR. Why? Because completely identical banks in Europe like Germany's KFE don't primarily enter the general government deficit, while let's say some smart-ass fell out of Croatia to serve a story in Brussels that the HBOR should be included in the general government deficit and then that and the public debt raises us over 100% and then ultimately raises the cost of borrowing. However, the government neither speaks nor speaks of what it does. And colleagues and colleagues, since time is running out I will slowly round this debate on behalf of the club with three things. One definitive confirmation is that Croatia has lost over 100,000 jobs in the last three years, that we have over 320,000 unemployed and that more than 50,000 have left Croatia but this time, highly educated and smart young people who should have been the foundation and basis on which the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia should be based. And finally, Mr. Deputy, simply no matter what you're dealing with today, you've had to offer an answer in this House as far as the Swiss are concerned, simply to state the facts, nothing else. As for these credit cooperatives, therefore, your memo clearly states that Croatian citizens were able to borrow outside and that the loan they raised outside through the gyro accounts could have been entered into Croatia, but unfortunately in the problems are those who obviously did not follow such rules. And that's what needs to be said clearly here and that we're not fighting who's guilty, who's not guilty because the Justice Minister already said there's nothing they can do about it. But look, I don't know if a savings cooperative from Croatia could go to Austria and come to someone's yard and take pictures of their house. That moment would end up tied up in chains in the police force so he could think what he wanted. That's the problem with us, so that's the main problem. This is all another thing for an institution to solve. So the report as a report has nothing to say against him. We are pleased that this report confirmed what we from HDZ have been talking about for months, unfortunately this government has not implemented reforms, and that is why we are where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105544	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Cresimir Bubalo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105545	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Shuker, you said the government had no objections. So how they'll have objections if they're supposed to have objections to themselves. But what is evident is that people feel that Croatia is not well and that is why they are leaving. But it is evident that the Government is not the ones that needed to be implemented and the European Commission is clear that it points to our vulnerability, but it will be awkward when our credit rating falls even further, and then there will be an increase in interest rates compared to Croatia. That's what we're worried about. You were talking about the findings but we'd love a lot more if we heard the creation by the CNB, but also the government. You've detected the problem you're feeling, which is that there's money on one side in the passive, but it's certainly people who are looking for credits. our producers, especially farmers, can't get a loan. And you forgot when you mentioned the drop in interest rates, I mean the manual savings in the Republic of Croatia, you forgot to add that the effectiveness will be much lower because it will also be added to the tax that Croatian citizens worth saving must also pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105546	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105547	Look, colleague Bubalo, there are some things you shouldn't be, actually, shouldn't be a matter of politics or politics or political accounting because if you want to solve the problem, then you have to figure out what the problem is first. We unfortunately didn't do it in Croatia. And my biggest tragedy is when I look at some financial documents and the Ministry of Finance and the CNB from 2008, 2009, 2010, you know what, the burning problems since then are still today, and that means we're not... even on point. This is the biggest problem in Croatia, the biggest problem of Croatian citizens. And in order to move, you need to implement the reforms. Reform is not to pass a law on not paying for the Christmases and the regressions and not paying for that addition to the loyalty of the service. It's not reform, reform is something else, because when you implement the reform, then you don't have to pass such a law. And if we hadn't implemented the reforms, the central bank told us in its reports, in its observations, but we also received such a memo from Brussels from the European Commission, and now the government says, we spent, in order for the Greek Vice President to say a few days ago, we sent a new package of reforms to Brussels. Well, for God's sake, if you've proposed the reforms you're going to make and based on it, how can you now propose new reforms and not change the budget? Well, the budget is the main leverage for implementing economic policy. But I repeat, there are some institutions when their reports are being discussed in the Parliament then there is not much politics. That's how we discuss here today. These are facts that are unfortunately such, painful are, they may be difficult to hear, but they are as they are and as soon as those who are in power understand this team will sooner start doing something or will move away.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105548	Thank you. Nadica Jelesh replica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105549	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, in your discussion, you noticed that today the left-hand side reacts differently than yesterday, that we do not bicker. Personally, I have to say that I really never like to argue, I like to react to arguments, but the fact is that today the left hand side reacts differently than yesterday because today we are discussing here the report of the CNB for the first half of 2014, which you yourself said was actually passing. So, in the first half of last year, we haven't had, unfortunately, any positive changes or exits of the real sector from recession. Today or better say the last months of such signs we have. Therefore, there is a sign of a change in trends from negative to positive in both export and industrial production and labour market. And so that's something that's good, which we think is positive, and that's what we want to talk to our citizens about, and unfortunately that's what's causing frustration for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105550	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105551	Look, colleagues, Jelash, I'm not one of those people who's subject to euphoria. I wasn't even like that when I was in power. I'm not even represented today. I do all the things, all the numbers when I hear them, then I want to put them together with those numbers that lead to those numbers. I also very carefully commented on this growth in the last quarter and I said if it were such an honor. But unfortunately, a month or less after that came the sobering that the decline in industrial production in the first month was 7%. But if you were looking at an explanation of why economic growth took place, the recovery to say so in the last quarter of last year, then you're first in industrial production. And if the key generator of that which has led to some positive shifts in the Republic falls the most than it has fallen in the last two years, then it clearly indicates that something is wrong. And that's what I was saying here, and that's the structure of the Croatian economy, the lack of production. Because one ship's shipment once significantly increased our exports or destroyed our exports. That's how two factories don't work now, and he's totally knocked down our industrial production, and he's even tampering with our export indicators. But if you have noticed in the letter from the European Commission, they say no matter what the shifts and the positive indicators regarding exports are, in view of everything and the entry into the European Union and all, that they are far from what they should have been. This is what the European Commission wrote. And so I look at these 0.3s through all these segments and try first and foremost to be correct to myself, and then to those I'm saying that tomorrow I wouldn't have to jump into my own mouth. And my debates are always at that level and therefore I will never charge anyone on one basis, but I want to see how that figure came about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105552	Thank you. Frano Matušić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you've been talking about a number of paradoxes that we're actually meeting today and also these facts about various statements coming from the government, so the government assures us that this is how we got out of the crisis. However, last year ended again in a negative, at least 0.4%. The other thing is reforms and no one in Croatia knows what reforms they are. If reform is about abolishing the regression, the goddess and everything else, then we really can't call it reform. But what is most significant is the fact that the European Commission is actually planning to put us under even more strict supervision because of the increased macroeconomic imbalances, the economic surveillance of Croatia is actually a clear enough indicator of the moment and the situation we are in. Here are the announcements from the government that by 1 April they will send a proposal for reform to the European Commission without the Croatian public knowing at all what reforms these are. What reforms are they going to make? Reduce wages? What's that? Where? How? So there is no debate in the public space about what kind of reforms are involved and what reforms the Republic of Croatia needs. So we are currently facing an even stricter procedure and the question is, it will probably come in the future if we do not respond properly and use European funds. No one's talking about it. You said industrial production itself fell in the first month compared to last year 7%. In the share of the growth they were talking about in the last quarter, we have a large share of exports. And you know what? Banana. So, transportation through Croatia is statistically recorded on the side of exports, so we are major banana exporters to the European Union. It's a really very interesting piece of information.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105554	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105555	Look, colleague Matušić, Croatia had an economic growth of 0.5% and 0.7% in 2011 in the second and third quarter. He didn't happen by accident. In the second half of 2010, the Croatian Government adopted the Economic Recovery Programme and we said then short-, medium- and long-term measures and when the first results are expected. That's what happened. If this government had continued under the programme, something else would have happened until it reached its own programme. However, look at fellow Matusic. If all the results, the changes in the law and everything haven't produced results, you can't change the policy unless you change the laws. Do you see one law in this agenda? We stop sitting tomorrow. Therefore, by virtue of which law, the government will change something that would stimulate certain economic activities or improve a certain investment climate in the Republic of Croatia. Well, you've seen that certain measures, let's say the abolition of the State Inspectorate, are law that is so-called. The bound law binds to itself 30, 40 laws. Well, we changed the laws for 7, 8, 9 months after that in the House. It's just saying what's going on. So it's not a change of service whether it's going to be a seat like this or a prerequisite to make it effective. It's just that you're doing it to get someone's eyes dirty. But fortunately, the figures are exact and they eventually open their eyes. And I think the Croatian people opened their eyes and it's high time some of them left.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105556	Tomislav Jagar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105557	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Shuker. And you've argued in your debate that monetary expansion policy has achieved that money has as much as you've expressed yourself as you want. Indeed, you mentioned 12 billion actually kunas of money that entrepreneurship could withdraw, actually be placed through loans. But that didn't happen. That's what we're talking about today. There are several reasons. One of the reasons was also mentioned in previous discussions, which is a low level of capitalisation of companies, in fact by bad customers, especially those of those customers that they used for short-term needs rather than investing in long-term ones, so there was a reduction in capitalisation and actually the value of these companies. And they're hardly even in a position today that I can get a loan that would give them new investments. And then you talked about structural reforms, and there's more or less we can agree that they're very important, but in order not to happen to us as a prominent economist, I forgot his name, which he cried out to stop structural reforms. Because reforms need a certain background to be implemented. We lacked this part of investment and investment through entrepreneurship, which has been trying to run through a series of measures and governments, and ultimately by a pre-banking law that wanted to preserve a certain number of jobs, so this remained. And then when we talk about reforms, we have to be careful. We cannot consider under reform simply firing workers in the public sector or reducing the number of units of local self-government. Reform must exclusively aim at increasing efficiency and competitiveness as you yourself said. And you said you didn't need to politicize on these important issues, but I don't see why some numbers that are positive you don't want to see, you're just pointing out negative numbers. So now you're talking about reform that was just cosmetic. That's not true. Finally, both the courts' networks and a certain reform that will increase the efficiency of these courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105558	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Shucker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105559	Comrade Sagar, the reform knows exactly what is and what is the meaning of the reform. It's not the point of reform now we're gonna say we're gonna fire so many people. Maybe somewhere it'll show up and hire people. But the efficiency of those who do this job and perhaps a different network, and when citizens entrepreneurs become satisfied, then we know that we have succeeded. Look, we had paid classes in '99. You came then, this similar coalition came to power and abolished those payroll classes. I responsibly argue that without paying classes there is no adequate reward in public administration, no depoliticalisation and professionalisation of public administration. Whoever wasn't in the state administration doesn't know that the biggest problem is to fire the unemployed and the one who's teasing him, so eventually you sit down and raise your hands from it, that's a fact. And an efficient administration will lead to people having higher salaries, better and better-quality budgets being filled, because those who fill will realize that this administration is on their side, not against them and those who write the laws that will write the laws by removing some obstacles that they have noticed that the existing law is creating, not going through that system and where am I? And that's the key to everything. I said, not only for this government, but for the one before, political will is needed to implement reforms. Sometimes some reforms do not see their final effect and goal and do not come across much of the favor and approval of many. Well, you have to put up with those punches. But after half a year, a year and a half when the results show up, then those kicks will turn into something that's nicer, and that's commendable. Unfortunately, many stakeholders in Croatia are preventing reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105560	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Nadica Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105561	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Governor, Your Honor, So this CNB report is a regular, sort of x-ray and real sector, and all the other movements in the country, so I'm just going to go over some of the figures in this report and some of the more difficult ones. So, unlike 2013 marked by the fall in economic activity, the first half of 2014 is characterized by stagnant movements and they are actually identical in our environment, so in the Eurozone. The real GDP decline in the first quarter was 0.6% and in the second quarter of 2014. 0.8%, mostly due to the decline in investment and state consumption, which there was no compensation for even strong export growth. The balance sheet balance sheet account has deteriorated. The deficit increased by 10.6% compared to the first half of 2013 despite increased and goods exports as well as the export of services primarily of the nature of those touristic ones. Labour market developments in the first half of 2014 stabilised compared to very unfavourable developments from the end of 2013. The number of unemployed in the first 6 months of 2014 decreased by 1.6% compared to the end of 2013 but the administrative unemployment rate of 20.4% is still quite high. The nominal net wages increased by 0.3% and real by 0.8%, so real wages grew slightly more than nominal due to the drop in prices. But the deputy governor explained that in that case, so when we talk about this drop of prices, there is no need to mention deflation, so there is no deflation. In such macroeconomic conditions, the CNB continued to conduct an expansional monetary policy and this ensured the high liquidity of the domestic banking system, which also confirms that banks had an average daily capacity of nearly 8 billion kuna over the first 6 months of 2014. It's almost 3 billion or to be quite precise 2.7 billion kuna more than the average for 2013. So the fact is that banks are full of money, what's bad is that the demand for that money doesn't exist, or it's very weak. The kuna course towards the euro was stable because of the high level of euroisation, the country's main prerequisite for the country's overall financial stability. It is obvious, therefore, that the strong kuna is not a problem for the exporters either because there is an increase in exports. The Central Bank continued to encourage corporate lending by reducing the reserve rate by 1.5% and by buying mandatory bank accounts, resulting in a relatively good funding conditions for the domestic economy, while continuing to reduce the interest on long-term loans and retaining favourable interest on short-term loans. However, because you are not yet a level of business optimism, but I will also say that the banks' hardness in sharing the risk of borrowing the total demand for loans has not unfortunately increased. The abstinence from credit borrowing is also recorded in citizens. International gross reserves were at the end of June 2014. 12.3 billion euros, net reserves of 10.5 billion euros, and they are still a strong security for high external debt service, which at the end of June 2014 amounted to 253 billion kuna or 77% of GDP. Now, how did banks operate under such macroeconomic conditions? To visit 2013 the banks achieved as much as 70% lower profits than in 2012 so that profit was only a billion kuna. This also resulted in a reduction in profitability indicators that have been burned to the lowest since 1998 when negative financial results have been shown at the level of the banking system. Therefore, the losses in those banks that were operating negatively exceeded the shown profits of those banks that were operating positively. Each other of the 29 business banks in 2013 showed a loss in business. The main reason for this dramatic fall in profits and poor business results was a major increase in the cost of booking for risk placements, this increase was more than 2 billion kuna and it was conditioned to the most amended rules on the classification of plasma. In the first half of 2014, the problem of risk placements, or difficulties in the payment of loans, is unfortunately even more pronounced. Namely, the share of the so-called non-income as banks say loans, i.e. B and C loans, increased from 15.7% at the end of 2013 to 16.6% at the end of June 2014, stressing that the share of bad credits in companies is almost 30% or that I am quite precise 29.6%. And precisely these difficulties in the collection of claims along with a low level of credit activity conditioned the continuation of the bank deleveraging process in their parent banks abroad. Despite the fact that uncharging loans give banks more and more headaches, it should be said that bank business risks continue to be adequately covered. Of course, as a result of the lower credit portfolio structure conditioned by the increase in the share of non-paymentable loans but also due to the stricter rules of the classification of placements, as I already mentioned in the first half of 2014 there was an increase in booking costs for risk credits. What are the bank's business results in the first half of 2014? So the banks made a profit, it was 1.5 billion kuna, and it was 25% higher than in the same period in 2013. Obviously, after a dramatic decrease in 2013 in the first half of 2014 the bank's earnings began to recover. A positive impact on the increase in profits has led to a low cost of funding primarily due to lower interest rates on the population's deposits. But certainly the greatest impact on the level of profit achieved has interest income because they are the most important source of bank income. And what is important in this respect is to stress that the interest income with weak credit activity and the increased share of bad credit has also been significantly affected by the application of the Consumer Credit Act since the beginning of 2014. So, by law, we have limited the rate of interest rates for housing loans related to the Swiss franc. And the effects are very obvious, for banks they are negative because their income from interest on residential loans related to Swiss people has dropped 40%. However, what we wanted here in the Parliament, or government, to achieve therefore for the citizens has achieved the desired effect. The objective, i.e. the burden of serving credit related to Swiss credit, is nevertheless easier. So we can say still citizens in charge of Swiss breathe a little easier. Finally, what is a major comparative advantage of the Croatian banking system with a 21% ratio of banking capital is one of the best capitalised countries in the EU and this ensures it still manages well with potential losses. For example, Slovenia has an adequate rate of banking capital of only 12%. So, banks in Croatia, unlike those in the countries in our environment, do not have to be rehabilitated, we did it in the '90s, nor are the sources of public debt or deficits. But what I want to stress in this debate is that the financial stability of banks cannot be its own goal, while the economy, while citizens and finally the state budget barely survive. In the last two years, banks have been intensively deleveraging, returning borrowed capital to mothers' banks in European countries because they simply have no one to place it in Croatia. This foreign capital subsidises domestic deposits which are incomparably cheaper and thus actually reduce business costs and increase profits. We said that in the first half of 2014, profits were increased compared to 2013. It actually shows how banks run a short-sighted policy, I'd say a short-winded policy. So what banks need to do next is two important things. First of all, banks have to get rid of bad loans and their portfolios even if they write off the burden of financial results, so they have profits. With the freed part of the loan being freed from the pay of the profit tax, that's why we've provided them with it. In parallel, they must extend the space of favourable or more favourable lending conditions, so in one word they must actively participate in the recovery of both the real sector and the citizens and the state, that is, the state budget, because if it does not, they will have no one to place the money and, as I said in one replica, the banks are just living out of it. So the banks are holding the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens in one of their current inflexible positions, but they must be aware that they are actually holding themselves in a stalemate position.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105562	Thank you. Is the deputy final? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105563	I thank you all for an interesting discussion. Something's going on with my voice, I'm sorry. I think when we look at what's the problem of central banks, not only of the CNB but also of Europe, I'd say globally that's the problem. transmission mechanism. There's a lot of liquidity, central banks create enormous liquidity, banking systems, stock exchanges, all have financial resources, but it's hard or impossible to get any further. And the problem of very slow credit growth is present not only in Croatia but throughout the European Union in countries that are candidates for entry into the European Union. I think that the course of action is that these problems are solved, that they are primarily apostrophe on the side of the offer we see a certain aversion towards lending and stronger standards for credit approval. But first of all, the problem is on the side of the loan demand, on the side of a healthy loan demand, and yet this is the result because a large part of the economy is being subcapitulated, there are not enough free collaterals, it's over-indebted, it has to be in debt. In this direction, it is likely that more should work on models that would allow co-ownership to be invested in particular and to capitalise particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. The second part that has been apostrophe here and that would help solve this problem, and which I have said at the outset, these are bad claims from banks that banks should be more quickly, more determined to clean from their balance sheets. In this respect, the central bank as a supervisor can help in this way require very high reservations and reservations already at an early stage when problems are seen because it thus stimulates them to resolve such bad loans and to release those reservations. Another way is the same in this, in the sense that Mr. Linic was talking about, there are these pre-warrant deals, someone also mentioned personal bankruptcy as part of that whole package. And of course that's one problem that not only the central bank can solve, it's a broader problem in which fiscal policy must be included, perhaps some tax reliefs and judiciary, editing land books etc., etc. So that's what structural reforms are in other words, these are structural reforms that would allow for the launch of a new credit cycle. As far as deflation is concerned, I said deflation is a longer-term general drop in most or all of the prices paid by the decline in consumption and it is certainly bad because it delays or reduces consumption. But not only does it increase the real burden of debt, it reduces the profitability of businesses, by reducing the profitability of companies, of course, and by reducing consumption it also reduces the revenues of the state budget. So no one argues that deflation is a very bad phenomenon, undesirable and harmful, but with us the price index has fallen due to the volatility of the limited number of product classes and it is mostly an imported phenomenon and I repeat it and I think it is an accurate assessment and we do not have to fear the bad effects of such a situation in the movement of prices as I have just mentioned what would really be the effect of real deflation. But even without this imported phenomenon, we have had factors that have since the beginning of the crisis, and the best answer to that is, of course, growth. The growth is, the main problem is our lack of growth. And what can monetary policy do anyway? Monetary policy doesn't have conflicting goals here, fortunately. It can use an equally expansional monetary policy, hence monetary policy that provides sufficient primary liquidity and acts to stimulate inflation and to act as an incentive to growth. However, expansion monetary policy, isolated from other policies, is not effective and cannot be effective. It would be more effective if it were combined with expansion fiscal policy, but our fiscal policy is still an unsustainable deficit, with growing public debt simply doesn't have enough free space to be countercyclical, to be stimulating in this sense in which there can be stimulating fiscal policies in some other countries that do not have the problem of high deficit and high public debt. So there are structural reforms left. I would mention a country that is very far from us and geographically by development and by all means, it is Japan, and it also has problems. It is an interesting example of Japan and.... These days end two years of the tremendously expansional monetary policy implemented by Japan, but the results are very weak, the results are still lagging behind. For what? They went into a program called the three arrows programme, we would say three pillars: expansion monetary policy, fiscal adjustment and third structural reform. This first arrow is detached, it's very easy to make, and this second one is much harder to make, and that's why there are no significant changes and the economy is easily coming out of the crisis. Which is the way out of here, so let me get this straight. I mean, the way out is, the problem is investment, the less the problem with personal consumption, and I think the main problem is the lack of investment. The exit is therefore in all possible measures that would stimulate and attract private, primarily private investment because of this state you talked about, I don't know how much space there is. When the deficit is to be reduced, it is unfortunately the most and most often cut on capital investments. So do everything to stimulate and attract private investment, and above all in industrial production, and above all in the production that is intended for export, and then that export will trigger GDP growth, trigger employment and then drive consumption through it, and it will then be one spiral in a positive sense that will lead to growth. As for the Swiss franc, it's a really big problem and it needs to be solved. I hope they get rid of themselves within a working group where all the relevant parties are sitting, so let's let them see which model of the solution they'll come up with. The CNB has often said that we have warned of the risk of borrowing in Swiss francs, and now we can also warn of the risk of Euribor and Libor as a parameter of correction of variable interest rates. Who knows what's going to happen in 3, 4, 5 or 6 or 10, 15 years with the libora, Euribora, and now it's become a parameter for changing interest rates. It's all part of one part, and the Swiss and all of this is one broader problem called euroisation, and we're kind of a hostage of euroisation. It's also a psychological problem. The euroisation slowed down in those years of growth by 2000, but by the time of the crisis, everything practically turned overnight and again in the banks' balance sheets the share of currency clauses and foreign exchange funds and claims rose to about 80 %. So there's no easy solution, the CNB doesn't have the authority to lift the currency clause, it can only be done by legal act, but then it's a question of how much it's even possible because the consequences need to be considered. I don't just mean the legal consequences of issues of constitutionality, security, etc. rather than prohibiting the currency clause in credit institutions in principle would mean de facto or de jure also prohibiting foreign exchange savings. And people just want to save in foreign exchanges, so it's one problem that can't be solved by any seemingly more acceptable variant to lift or ban the currency clause on the side of the active, on the side of the plasma, and keep the foreign savings. It doesn't work with each other. Someone said we have a stable course today. We have a stable course towards the euro, a relatively stable course towards the euro. The course is not fixed, and the question is other currencies, exchange rate dollars, franc exchange rate, all those other currencies. So we would, one such asymmetrical outage of foreign exchange clauses on the side of the activity, open up an extremely big problem that I don't know if it would be possible to solve at all. The question of gold has been mentioned. There'll be a written answer. I would just say very briefly because this is not about this information anyway, it refers to the first half of last year and gold is, sales of gold and the public has been informed in the Annual Report for 2001. But gold is just one financial instrument, nothing special in it except that you never know what price it will have and don't bring any interest. Gold can be invested in the short term for trading. It's a very, very speculative job and the central banks don't get into it, and it can be kept permanently. But in that case, even today from this position when it didn't know what the price of gold would be, I can say that we kept that gold in the balance sheet we would cumulatively have less income and a cumulatively smaller amount would have been transferred to the Ministry of Finance than it did without that gold. Simply when you have a price increase it's an unrealised profit that goes into general reserves. When you have a fall it eats extra income on expenses and in some years we would have a negative result. I think in 2013 we could transfer nothing to the Ministry of Finance but have a negative result. Mr. Shuker also mentioned the credit union. I have to say very briefly, the reminded CNB performs the supervisory work of those credit institutions that it has given permission to work. If someone illegally appeared on, I believe it would happen in Austria, what you mentioned. But I don't know if Österreichishe National Bank is performing there. We simply do not have the authority or mandate to act, hunt and prevent those who are illegally on the market. It would be very good, and it would help if such negative activities were reported to those who are approached with such offers, as well as those who are other participants in these transactions involved in the conclusion of contracts that you mentioned as lawyers and public notaries. I think I, I couldn't cover everything and I don't know if I've gone too far. But here's my thanks again for the discussion, and I'd be done with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105564	Thank you. We have one replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105565	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice Governor, because of the virosis, I just came here, but I couldn't stand to listen to you this morning, explaining the information about the financial system and now, during the final speech, misleading the Croatian public and the pranks you serve. Don't you have the legal basis to prevent illegal lending in the Republic of Croatia? So who's giving consent to credit activity? Who issues consent and credit institutions? That you only warn of negative phenomena and risks that may occur in the financial system. You are not to warn, you are to prevent them, but you are not to prevent them. Are you saying earlier the problem is almost the only one in Croatia on the side of the loan demand, and don't you see the problem at the rate of interest that you influence with your monetary policy? Can't you see that we have the highest funding costs in Europe and that's why we're the most competitive? Can't you see that because of the change, unilateral changes already agreed interest rates are at risk for all economic operators in the Republic of Croatia. Can't you see that because of the 227 fees the banks have imposed, and you approved them, that this is the main problem of stagnation of the Croatian economy. Can't you see that currency clauses and now you're threatening that impossible foreign currency savings are currency savings? So whoever buys the foreign exchange market foreign exchanges saves, but we're not about to create a tied foreign exchange savings like you tie credits. But you're threatening, you're constantly threatening, and you're cheating on some misunderstandings. Can you tell me one measure that you have brought into the interest of the Croatian people and the resolution of the crisis? Tell me one piece, one counter-resion measure? You have done nothing, because you are not interested in Croatia, nor in the Croatian people, and you are interested in what they are doing. The whole of Croatia is under wraps, and you are fleeing the Parliament as I speak. Great! Because it's none of your business, 400 thousand people. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] which are under wraps. [[Intruding Batinić: Hello colleague Maric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105566	Hello, colleague Maric, you're out of time and I've let you go to the end. However, a little more correctness. I thank the Deputy Governor, Mr. Martic, there was no need for you to leave before your colleague finished. And I'd like to pray in the future that you'll hear as well as the proposer until the end. Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, we're gonna stop now. In fact, technical problems can't get the proposer to the next point, so we'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105567	Half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy, the debate is concluded. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget as the home working body of the Croatian Parliament for this issue, I am voting on the following conclusion: "It takes note of the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy. Please vote on the proposal for this conclusion. Please, the vote is over. The result? I find that the majority of the vote is 80 votes in favour of, 22 abstentions and 5 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105568	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We will discuss two proposals for a decision: - Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of a member of the Competition Protection Council. - Proposal for a Decision appointing the President of the Competition Protection Council. The motion for a decision shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 27. The law on the protection of competition. You've received a proposal for action. The debate is carried out by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Deputy Economy Minister Mr. Allen Leveric will explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105569	... At a meeting on 12 March this year, the Government set out a proposal for a decision to resolve members of the Competition Protection Council on 14 April 2015 for the expiry of the term of office. [[Last-on speaker]] You've seen that he's a candidate for President Mladen Cerovac, his résumé is in the material attachment, and here's so much of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105570	Thank you very much. Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposals tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105571	Proposal for a Decision authorising a member of the Competition Protection Council and a proposal for a decision appointing the President of the Competition Protection Council. The debate on the proposals for decisions is closed. I am voting on the motion for a solution. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that by a majority of the 105 votes in favour of, 2 abstentions, it is nothing against a decision taken to resolve a member of the Competition Protection Council in the text as proposed by the Proposer. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on appointment. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most of the votes are 101 votes for, 5 abstentions, nothing against the decision to appoint a president of the Competition Protection Council in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105572	And we will discuss today: - The 2013 Free Zone Report. The report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the report at the session. And the opening report will explain to us the Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts, Mr Drazen Pross.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105573	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Assembly MPs and parliamentary representatives. During the presentation of this Free Zone Report, I would like to remind you that a year ago in the Croatian Parliament, a report on free zones covering a 2011-2012 period was presented to the Parliament and the public since the date of entry into force of the Free Zones Act in 1996. Acting in accordance with the applicable regulations and supporting transparency in the business of free zones here today we present the 2013 Free Zones Report. What is important, two key events were important for the free zones in 2013, and above all, it is an amendment to the legislative framework. And second membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. When we talk about amendments to the legislative framework, let me remind you that the amendments to the Law on Free Zones entered into force on 19 December 2013 and those amendments and amendments to the law are in line with the free zones system in the Republic of Croatia with the conditions of business on the EU common market, so we are talking about customs, tax treatment and it was possible to extend the existing concessions for free zones in the Republic of Croatia but also to waive the concession of course when the economic interest requires it which until then was not possible by the applicable law. The relationship between the donor and the beneficiary of the free zone concession with regard to one regulation of mutual obligations has also been improved, and I would like to stress in particular that the possibility of using previously acquired tax exemptions remains in force until the end of 2016. The amendments and amendments to the laws are also in line with the competences and names of the authorities of the state administration in accordance with the applicable rules and in order to eliminate all those administrative difficulties arising from the non-compliance of the name, the partial work in the existing legislative framework. The coordination has also facilitated the business of users of concessions and users of free zones and all of this is also in the interest of potential investors in particular from third countries that are interested in business in free zones. The amendments and amendments to the laws are also set out in more detail and deadlines for the delivery of documentation and the way and time limits for payment of concessions for free zones precisely for the production of both this and similar reports and other bases which are important for the business of free zones, the users of free zones have therefore become obliged to supply data to concession users. The amendments and amendments to the law provide for one regulation instrument, in the light of a new regulation on how to pay concession fees for free zones, which came into force in February 2014, and we can say that the Regulation had completed its main task, that was the precise definition of both the basics and the periods for which concession fees are paid. In addition to the regulation of this method of payment of concession fees, the Regulation also implemented the obligation imposed by the concession law or provided a basis for the procurement of insurance instruments for the regular payment of concession fees. And therefore, the second major event related to free zones in 2013 is full-fledged membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, which primarily affected those users of free zones operating on the EU internal market or other Member States, EU Member States. Namely, the data associated with the users of concessions for free zones in 2013 indicate that the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia has affected the conditions of business on the treatment of goods whose destination is the internal market of the European Union, i.e. goods whose final destination is subject to VAT payment. Therefore, it is treated as goods intended for the domestic market. And this report is like the first Free Zone Report for 2011 and 2012 structured, so it also contains on one side a representation of the legislative framework for the establishment and operation of free zones in the Republic of Croatia and the other, only the state of the free zones, so aggregated, common data at the level of free zones in the Republic of Croatia but also for each zone in particular and putting it in relation to 2013 on 2012. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts as the Ministry of Free Zones collected data on the business of free zones with the following dynamics: data on business in 2013 which users provided for free zones received from June to early October 2013 and verified data from the Ministry of Finance specifically tax administration on tax relief used in 2013 were received at the end of October 2014. After processing data at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, according to legally prescribed deadlines, the report was submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government submitted the report to the Croatian Parliament at the end of December last year. In the number of free zones, there were minor changes in 2013 compared to 2012. After all the laws and procedures were implemented, the new free zone of Luka Rijeka-Škrljevo, whose beneficiary of the concession, Luka Rijeka d.d., started on 30 September 2013. and which is also included in one of those 10 land zones in the Republic of Croatia. The concessions for the free area of Luka Rijeka-Skrljevo were given for the purpose of improving business in connection with the free area of Luka Rijeka, which is on the maritime good, and also in 2013 it was further arranged the area under the concession for the free area of Luka Rijeka in such a way that part of the area that can functionally not be connected with the port is freed from concession, that is the area of the Podvezica area and on the other hand is an extended area of the container terminal Brajdica and it is for the construction of a new railway terminal with both belonging and secondary machinery. Thus, at the end of this reporting period in the Republic of Croatia, a total of 14 free zones of which are 10 land and 4 ports located on the maritime good. When we sum up the results of business in the free zones in this report, we see that users of free zones are mostly small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who employ an average of 36 employees, that the share of exports in the total income of users during this reporting period was 62% high, that the number of users decreased by 5.6% compared to the previous period and that despite this smaller number of users, the number of employees in 2013 was already 1.8%. However, when we talk about the main financial indicators for 2013 it should be pointed out that the total revenue in 2013 was 4.8 billion kuna, so less 7% than the year before and the profit was less than 30.9 million kuna. Of course, this decline was affected by several factors depending on the zone to the zone but part of this is about increasing the cost of raw materials that could not be transferred to the final product, partly on what we have already said and this is the impact of joining the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which, of course, has prompted some of the users of the free zones to reduce the volume of business within the zone or simply on leaving the business in the zone. Therefore, since 1 July 2013, the conditions of business in part have changed in areas under the free zone concession, that part of the customs procedures that users are obliged to carry out, as we must say, that the work of entrepreneurs and difficulties and even actually collects business. And if I can call it that, an additional difficult circumstance is paying value added tax for all goods leaving the zone, so the destination is not so-called. third countries, or countries not members of the European Union. And in the end, it is certain that the weaker business results have been affected by the very economic crisis that the users of the zone are going through, but of course by all their business partners. However, I would like to point out once again that the free zones are an instrument of the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia which has so far played a significant role for the economy with one particular effect and on a balanced regional development, an increase in exports, employment, investments and, as such, it is also recognised in other Member States of the European Union. The Croatian Parliament adopted amendments to the Law on Free Zones at the end of November 2013 on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has significantly improved the legislative framework for the business of free zones and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is here to submit and this report continues to contribute further to the implementation of the applicable law on the one hand, but also contributes to a better, open-ended insight into the state of one specific part of the economy. Dear MPs and MPs, please allow me to give you this opportunity and given the time flow until the end of the period for which I have submitted this report to date, I shall also briefly report on those changes that took place during 2014. So at the end of the first quarter of 2014, the free zone of Bjelovar ceased to work on the request of the beneficiaries of the concession, which is why the only user of the free zone operates on the internal market of the European Union and is precisely the basis of this amended legislative framework at the end of 2013. Also based on changes due to the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, the area under concession for the free zone Đuro Đaković Slavonski Brod has been changed, and thus the majority of users of the free zone are simplified business since they felt that after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union the advantages of operating in the free zone regime are no longer as attractive as before. Further only as a note, the free zone Đuro Đaković Slavonski Brod began at the beginning of this year because of the economic interest of the only remaining user of the free zone for the same reasons, and yet it is a matter of simplifying the conditions of business, submitted a request to abolish the concession for the free zone. So from all of this, it is visible how concessionaries try to optimise both their business and the business of their users, but we cannot talk about the trend of leaving the free zone regime because business in the free zones continues to say so attractively for users of free zones operating with third countries and those operating in free zones on maritime good. So I'm talking about those ports in Pula, Rijeka, Split and Plots. Further development of free zones should be seen exclusively in the context of other opportunities available to users of concessions and users of free zones. In this respect, I particularly highlight the benefits for the current or future users of the free zones stemming from the Investment Encouragement Act and the improvement of the investment environment. In particular, this applies to those investors who are interested in dealing with third countries and who actually correspond to the geographical position of Croatia, i.e. transport infrastructure. And what I want to point out on this occasion is, in any event, the possibility of reregistering into some form of entrepreneurship infrastructure and the use of all the benefits that arise from the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Note, entrepreneurship infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia is made up of entrepreneurship zones, entrepreneurship support institutions, and the Law itself on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, which has been in force since the end of July 2013, in a systematic manner and transparently defines those basic issues of the arrangements of the entrepreneurship infrastructure system. In particular, it is a term, a type, a categorisation of entrepreneurship zones or entrepreneurship support institutions, but also criteria that entrepreneurship zones, entrepreneurship support institutions should meet in order to obtain support from the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts to improve entrepreneurship infrastructure, to create a system of support for infrastructure equipment of entrepreneurship zones or to create an incentive system for entrepreneurship support institutions. What is extremely important is that the entities of entrepreneurship infrastructure under this law open up opportunities for the use of participation in public tendering for funds from the European Regional Development Fund, and in particular I highlight two programmes. This is, therefore, the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure for which the 532 million kuna funds are foreseen, and here I am stressing once again the publication of a public call in the second quarter of this year. And another programme, it is a programme of advisory services through entrepreneurship institutions for which the funds are estimated to amount to 326.8 million kuna, with the publication of a public call in the third quarter of this year. So very clearly, the opportunities opened for business infrastructure entities, which can be included in re-registration and free zones, are really big. Finally, the future of free zones must be seen on the one hand by the economic interest of users of free zones operating with third countries and in the free zones of maritime good, therefore in ports, and on the other, with the opportunities available to them in the direction of developing entrepreneurial infrastructure. It is for the founders and users of free zone concessions to decide which direction to take, and the current legislative framework for free zones and for entrepreneurship infrastructure is already giving them that option. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, in the economic interest of users of concessions for free zones and users of free zones, proposes the adoption of this 2013 Free Zone Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105574	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Kresimir Bubalo. He's not there. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. He's also not present, so clubs lose the right to argue on this point. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105575	Dear Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. First of all, I can state on behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats that we will support, accept the 2013 Free Zones Report. When we talk about free zones, we can first point out that it is of one interest to the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia. This interest was primarily defined in a way that, regardless of the specificity of the free zones concerned that they belong territorially to the Republic of Croatia within the free zone, they share each other's principles, above all in the customs definition and other things. What we can especially point out is that these potentials can be exploited within free zones, in particular the benefits created by the delay in VAT payments, the payment of customs duties and when goods are handed over in the European Union or a lower rate of income tax. Based on this part in the Republic of Croatia there are 14 entrepreneurial zones which are partly divided in a way that we have several zones in western Croatia, areas that cover the territory of central Croatia and Slavonia east and of course areas that are situated within the ports and rivers. In this report, which is defined in a way that, that there are certain problems in the work of free zones, which are related to Croatia's entry into the EU and also problems which would be particularly highlighted by the recession, i.e. the lower growth of the economy. A large part of what was given in the opening statement, and the report shows that concession contracts are terminated, there is a reduction in the number of employees. Of course, even certain entrepreneurship zones come with it. But I think that for them, the future exists precisely because we must in some way define their existence and their purpose, and it depends primarily on economic investment and depends on the very entrepreneurs who find their interest in the work of these entrepreneurial zones. When I talk about this report in those zones, we can notice that these zones were mostly formed in 2001 to the fourth, fifth years. The duration of the concession from 25 to 30 years. Most of the characteristics are that the concession is about 2% of the profits made in these zones. Another feature is that virtually all the zones that are defined in that section are all communalized zones. So big funds are invested in municipal infrastructure, and I think that's the potential that's mentioned in this section and the basis of the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure that we have to use it anyway, whether a certain free zone, whether it continues with its work or not. But the potential is there, the infrastructure is there, tradition is at all times... represented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's up to us to take advantage of that potential. But I would, however, about all this, with all these problems being said that it means removing the zone, eliminating concessions, even having some zones that are invested in them, infrastructure. They're not fully operational. Still, I'd be happy to mention an entrepreneurial zone in Varazdin. And according to data published in the free zone work report in Croatia for 2013 the free zone of Varazdin is the most successful free zone in our country. When taking into account the number of indicators, according to the 17 users of the Varazdin free zone, they achieved revenues of nearly 2.1 billion kuna, while all free zones totalled 4.8 billion kuna. Comparing these numbers, the Varazdin free zone generates slightly less than 50% of the income of all free zones. When viewed and also export data, the Varazdin free zone delivers convincingly the best results. Companies in the area, here I can tell my zones, so they exported goods worth 1.5 billion kuna from Varazdin while total exports of companies of all land zones are 2.4 billion kuna. While this is being added, the port zones total exports amount to 2.9 billion kuna. The Varazdin Free Zone is convincing first and a half employees. More specifically than the total number of employees in all free zones in Croatia, port zones have also been taken into account. Almost half of the employees are employed in one of 17 companies operating in the area of the Varazdin free zone, i.e. 3565 out of 8075 across the country. The nearest free zone of Varazdin by number of employees is the zone in Slavonski Brod with... employees, and the port of Rijeka with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the area of the free zone in 2014 it was achieved alongside the port of Ploče and the largest investment amounting to 30 million kuna. That's more than half of the investment when only land zones are taken into account. At the level of investment, it is the port of Ploče, where investments amounted to €185 million in 2014. I mentioned this precisely because I said that free zones are necessary for the development of our economy and that part of the specificity that is needed. But I specifically mentioned that, is it possible that the most successful zones, that the most competitive county, that the town of Ivanec has our colleague, who has the only certificates for economic investment in Croatia from the north of Croatia? Is there perhaps some other entrepreneurship climate, whether there may be some other basis, another mental set, or anything else? But I would really like to point out that if you have a goal, if you want the results to be seen, they are very much possible. So it all depends on people and on the resources that are on that most basic base, resources within the county, cities and municipalities. What he says, if you help yourself, then others will help you. I think that in northern Croatia in... We've proved to the county that we can do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The issue is the need for further business of free zones and this after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. And, yes, I think it does exist. There is most often in the case of accommodation and management of foreign goods, i.e. goods which do not have Community status, which is mostly goods coming from countries that are not members of the EU, and by that part and by all things should primarily be the Ministry if not this year, next year we are certain to allow more legal frameworks to operate these free zones and that these potentials, as an instrument of economic policy, of the Republic of Croatia which is achieved through free zones, are still at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105576	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105577	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associate. So, as the minister himself said before us is the second report on free zones in the Republic of Croatia, and secondly since the Law on Free Zones is applied in the first place. So it's been there since the half of the 1990s. The SDP Club supports such systematicity and supports the commitment to transparency of data delivery as well as transparency in the submission of law enforcement reports. Since the Free Zones Act is one of the strategic laws, i.e. free zones are the instrument of the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia, we believe that this approach is necessary and that it is commendable. So, as I said, free zones are an instrument of economic policy with three objectives. First of all, the increase in exports, then the increase in employees and more equidistant economic regional development. I believe this report is also very interesting to us as a legislator who can monitor trends in our economy, so through this instrument called free zones. As for the increase in exports, we had the opportunity to hear in the data already given to this speaker that exports had a total share of 62.2% in the overall business of free zones, which is why we can evaluate as satisfactory. As regards workers in free zones today or in accordance with this free zone report, 8075 employees are employed. This is an increase compared to the previous report when 7931 employees worked in the free zones. So certainly an impressive figure in such a difficult economic situation and certainly one of the indicators that the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia is improving. And more balanced economic development, so these areas are primarily designed regionally, so they are strategically and relocated. We have 7 zones in the coastal Croatia, 7 in the continental of which 4 are in northwestern, 3 in eastern, 4 in the northern Adriatic and 3 in the southern Adriatic. Unfortunately, what we can conclude from this report is that different zones and different businesses have been better or worse on the market and have achieved better or worse results. When we talk about free zone business indicators, let me refer to some exact data. Therefore, in 2013, 4.8 billion kunas of income were achieved while the profit of the beneficiary amounted to 30.9 million and investments amounted to slightly less than 250 million kuna. Also, as regards strengthening the economy, we can conclude that the share of processing and production activities in the total revenues of free zones is also quite large. Of course, there's a zone where that percentage is really small, but I'd like to highlight positive examples here. I would first of all point out the free zone of Bjelovar which, despite the fact that there is only one user, has a share of the processing industry of 98%. Therefore, although one user is almost its total production is placed in exports and falls within the processing and production activity. Varazdin free zone with impressive 99%, free zone Zagreb with 82%, free zone Slavonski Brod with 72% etc. So there are really good examples. Also, as far as income itself is concerned, we can figure out how I said before that some free zones were better, some worse. Certainly to point out here two bright examples of free zones, it is first and foremost as my colleague before me mentioned a free area of Varazdin and a free zone of Luke Rijeka. The free zone of Varazdin, which recorded revenues in 2013 of more than 2 billion kuna and the free area of Luka Rijeka with almost 400 million revenues. Unfortunately, there are those who don't do so well. For example, Kukuljanovo's free zone was recently established but as we can see from this report, it still did not attract any users in 2013. According to the information provided by the beneficiary of concessions in 2013, the income of states, cities and municipalities of concession fees for free zones amounted to 536 thousand 483 kuna and 16 June, respectively, 24.8% more than the previous year. It is also quite said here about the very idea of free zones, so above all, the Deputy Minister talked about when he talked about the legislative framework, but also about the very idea of free zones, as well as the structure of the countries in which they are exported and in the fact that some entities within the free zones want to exit the free zones system, i.e. to move to regular business. This is also evident if we also observe the structure of the countries to which they are exported from free zones. So when we look at the export structure, I would divide it into two groups. One group is EU member states while another group are non-EU countries. What we need to find out from this data is that most of the countries to which they are exported are just EU members. I would point out that Italy is probably a constant, or partner of almost all free zones. So in the first group, Italy certainly leads, followed by Slovenia, Austria, Hungary, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Germany, etc., so all EU member states. In the second group, i.e. among non-EU countries, one of the leading partner countries is BiH, after which Serbia, UEA, USA, Montenegro, Israel, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and the People's Republic of China. It should also be noted that some free zones are directed exclusively to the EU area. So this is, above all, the free zone of Bjelovar, which I would like to point out and which the Deputy Minister has already mentioned that the user in the Bjelovar free zone wants to move actually to normal business since the EU market is now categorized as an internal market, so the domestic market. This, of course, allows us to think about the future of free zones in the Republic of Croatia since we are now a member of the EU and since the countries in which they are exported from free zones are mostly EU members. My colleagues have already mentioned something about this before me, colleague and deputy minister, so allow me a few of my thoughts on this fact. First of all, the future of free zones in Croatia should be directed towards countries located outside the EU market. We already see that there is an example, here is one I think the Deputy Minister mentioned, that there is an interest, therefore, in moving to regular business. So, outside the free zones of certain manufacturing entities. This therefore gives all hope that the Republic of Croatia will now and as a member of the EU, that is, if we look at it in a more geopolitical environment it can offer a lot to foreign markets as well as to the EU's internal markets. So we are talking about where we can view Croatia as a logistics centre but also as an exporter. Since, of course, we can offer a lot to partners from the EU itself by making it easier but also by making it available and physically close to the market outside the EU, so by reducing manipulative costs, and above all, we are talking about two relatively large markets, which is that of the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, so at the EU border. We believe that the future of free zones should be designed by the ministry, so the competent ministry but also by the entrepreneurs themselves, the users of the free zones and the free zone themselves, above all, by dialogue and debate. I am pleased that this Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, whose responsibilities are also free zones that will be able to deal with, will not let go of this issue, but that it is already actively considering it and is trying to find the best solutions for free zone users themselves, both on the promotion and production of the processing industry, its development but also on exports outside Croatia. In addition, not long ago we also adopted a strategy for the development of entrepreneurship, and I believe that free zones will also be one of the tools that we will be able to use by directing our economic policy and our economy, which is slowly recovering from the economic crisis. So this report is the second time before us since this law is implemented and the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105578	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105579	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, thank you for praising all these free zones and in order to support this legislative proposal. However, when we read this material more carefully here on page 9 you have Đuro Đaković's business zone in Slavonski Brod and then I say on that page 9 says the total income of users of the free zone was 388 million kuna. So, 9.5% more than in 2012, when it was 355, and at the level of all users of the free zone, the loss of 26 million and 720 thousand, which is unlike the year before when it was only 300 thousand, is now 26 million. So we're talking about the successes and the results of the free zones. I'm sorry that in my town, this situation is the same as even two newly opened economic operators in the area, and five of them have been closed, so five of them stopped working on this report. So it seems to me that here are somehow losing the pace and those free zones, here's our one, I'm not glad that in the boat that these results are in our free zone, Đuro Đaković, but here, the data shows that it's still going to be one thing not to say about slowing down the pace compared to the years before, although the area is open until 2025, as it says in 2016, excuse me, founded in 2001, 25 years is the duration of that free zone, but here are the slightly worse results that I personally don't like, and you've praised that area in your speech, and I'm glad to see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105580	Domagoj Hajdukovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105581	Thank you, Madam Vice President, and thank you, colleague. Well, yeah, I was actually talking about corporate areas in general. I didn't want to go into any deeper analysis, but if we're talking cumulatively, the income was cumulatively speaking about all the zones had quite good indicators. So they're worth slightly less than 5 billion kunas all together. Costs 4.3 billion means profits are about 30 million. So cumulatively speaking, that's good, but you have, of course, and unfortunately, examples where certain free zones are being reduced by the profit of users. That's certainly sad. We're talking about 2013 so when we were still deep in recession but what encourages me is an increase in the number of employees, so from 7,900 and some employees we've grown to over 8 grand so there's progress and we all know that our main goal is actually jobs, as many jobs as possible and preserving them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105582	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105583	Dear Vice-President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, I don't think it's necessary to read and talk about what's in this report a team more than the Deputy Minister has exhaustively stated in this work everything that this report says. There is no reason not to accept such a report for a particular reason because it is a 2013 report, and it also lists the actual data that took place during that period in the area of industrial zones in the Republic of Croatia. So in my debate, I will briefly say a few words about the free zones and their meaning for economic development in the area of the Republic of Croatia, especially the part where they have already been established but also other problems that we can encounter and what this could mean. A colleague, Hajdukovic, mentioned an example of a zone on the Free Zone Kukuljan, which has no users at the moment. We still have a whole series of areas in the Republic of Croatia where there are only one or two users or there are none and some have even canceled. But the essence of the free zone is what I say all the time and through the discussions that are related to other laws relating to business zones, to free zones, to the infrastructure to solve land problems here certainly needs to be highlighted what is most important when we talk about free zones. That this is a special instrument of state economic policy and it has often been asked here why units of local self-government in the entire Republic of Croatia have formed so many zones where there are no business entities or can't be. This is exactly the example that counterpart Hajdukovic mentioned and related to Kukuljanovo, the deputy minister also referred to, says exactly what I have been saying all along how well it is to have prepared through spatial planning documentation, through built infrastructure, although at this point there is not so much interest ready at all times to offer this instrument to investors, investors in this area. So in 2013 on this report, I will refer to this very new concession received by Luka Rijeka in the area of the free zone, i.e. the industrial zone in Kukuljanovo, where the total area was about 360 thousand square meters and there is an empty 270 thousand square meters, so it is not filled. At this point, however, construction permits have already been drawn up, but a municipal contribution has already been calculated to confirm the main project so that it could start to invest. And finally, fellow Shucker, I can't hear myself in front of you, For the second half of this year, planned investments amounting to 340 million kuna in the area are under way. [[- Okay, okay.]] So why am I pointing that out now? Because we talked about those unfortunate percentages of land within the business zones in the area of units of local self-government owned by the Republic of Croatia and managed by DUDI. The investor, and we have daily contact with them, especially strangers, he expects a quick, secure solution and expects some kind of guarantee. And if we are solving problems, preparing land, solving property legal relations in the way that it is done so far, it is simply not possible for any investor to be able to do so, and even if some special methods go towards state institutions to solve these problems as soon as possible. So what's the point, it's built infrastructure, it's a matter of solved property legal relations, and it's just this special instrument of state economic policy because we can use this instrument to enable an investor who's coming into our areas to do something like that. When conventional instruments fail, the Free Zone Institute of this report is exactly what has been internationally recognised throughout the world since 1935 when in America the first of those zones, primarily related to port traffic, have been functioning. They've evolved all over the world, and they're like that. The more the state, in this sense, has to put a little bit of its budget, or those who are preparing project documentation on the ground, the spatial planning documentation little or nothing to invest in order to show up an investor who will be able to move all these benefits into the realisation of a project. And when we talk about the economy, or economic operators, or concessionaries, getting rid of something, it's just obvious. There is therefore no release in the sense that such a thing will not be returned to the Republic of Croatia and the areas themselves, or to the units of local self-government in which they are located. So they return through the investments themselves to build the facilities in which they will be located. They return through employment, through exports, through everything that generates that vision, that is, that special instrument of state policy. And in any case, here's Deputy Minister and Ministry, I think all of us together should think in this way that the most important thing of all is to create preconditions, to create not only this instrument but all those other instruments, because investors simply don't want to wait. We also had a not very nice example with me where we negotiated with a German investor we reduced his price, agreed to buy, made a contract for 350 thousand square meters of land production of artificial marble and everything for export. In contacts with the ministry, these same investors are referred to a completely different location within the Republic of Croatia which I believe was definitely wrong. Fortunately, he went with the realization but in a much smaller form of such a project. I don't think all these indicators can definitely be evaluated at this point because they're from 2013. We know that in 2013, we have entered the European Union, and we know that a certain period of time will be needed, where we will be able to see the full impact of all these free zones through life and the implementation of all these and new legislations and new regulations. What may well be said this way, often from these free zones or from port let's say areas of speech and data in our indicators are shown as export data from the Republic of Croatia. That's where I think of Luka Ploche, that's where I think of Luka Rijeka, Pula and that kind of transport. They are definitely in that part of this journey through the Republic of Croatia, storage and the other part. We have an interesting analysis and recommendations to the government and the state that created the university in Rijeka and is related to the free zones and their suggestions. I think it would be good to study some of the proposals made there to implement through regulation, and they are related to additional benefits and opportunities for users of free zones that they might have, without being too depicted in that sense as some kind of a denial of the state's income. Because I repeat again, all of the denials we give to economic operators, concessionaries within the free zone, we can definitely say that in that sense it is vividly expressed, seemingly, because in a different way it returns to the state, to the local self-government unit and to our citizens. Perhaps we should consider what and what other benefits might be given to users of free zones, why not enable imports and machinery and materials to build a new product which will also be some new added value to those owners within that free zone without customs duty, without any administrative fees, all that comes out of it. Because the final product when it's built is not what I said before just some stuff in a container that comes into the river harbor, overloads onto a truck or a car and then travels further. Perhaps it should also be considered to be able to get out of the free zone, so they are legally defined as fenced space, secured space, lit space and where the goods stand, packed, exported or moved on. There will certainly be a need with new technologies to temporarily take such goods out of the free zone for various tests or other necessary actions that would improve this to be an additional product. We could talk about it really much. In any case, I don't see any reason for this report prepared by the ministry in this form not to accept it. With all this thinking that I've been talking about, and in any case, with the acceptance of other and many suggestions that come from people who are operating on the ground, who are preparing it all. I'm going back to what I've been through and about what I've been giving amendments to, and about the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, the Law on Strategic Investments, that we don't need to slave the percentage of the construction of certain areas within the units of local self-government in that sense of solving property-legal relations because it stops. Nothing will happen to that land if the spatial plan is defined as a business zone, the possibility of a free zone if it is not owned by the Republic of Croatia and owned by a unit of local self-government, there are mechanisms in which we can protect it so that there are no doubts about any further operations with these land. But we need to make it possible at any time when an investor appears that we can offer this same investor a maximum, that this investor should not wait or know what debt of ours, but how we have become accustomed to them and that he can have a guarantee of what investors often complain about and ask us who are negotiating with them to give them a guarantee for 5 to 10 years in the coming years concerning both the municipal and the tax ones, which we simply cannot give them in the field given the way and the speed of the regulatory change here, here with us. The report is acceptable, the HDZ club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105584	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105585	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, we can only agree here that if we were to discuss free zones or entrepreneurship zones we could really spend all day here and maybe we should because we really have something to talk about, from land, from incentives, from support,... etc. But what I would particularly like to mention, is what you said in your debate, which is a question of the equipment of the zone. And you said whether it's questionable whether this area can only be defined through spatial-planned documentation or whether each zone should be raised to the highest level of infrastructure equipment. Yeah, that's questionable, depending on many factors. It's the Kukuljanovo zone you said, when we look at the information we received in this report, it was founded in 1997. She writes that it's fully infrastructured, I couldn't find out how fast it is now and that means that huge funds, if it's 100 acres of land are kind of frozen in that non-functioning zone. And now one more question is inevitably being raised from this, that in this report perhaps there should be some more information in the future. It is primarily who is the founder of these zones and how much it is invested in infrastructure equipment of each of those zones, whether it's from every investor or it is, I'm afraid at that point that when someone is doing something, it's that then they got from the state land entirely, they still got from the state infrastructure equipment. So we may be able to act when some of the other funds we're going to get are, maybe we're going to boast at some point, invest and freeze them, and then later there's no interest in maybe even the ambition to make sure that this same zone is somehow equipped, because when you invest your assets, it's in your best interests, and that's an example of the Varazdin County and the Free Zones of Varazdin to bring in investors and to activate that area.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105586	Tomislav Klaric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105587	Well, here's a colleague, the Kukuljanovo zone is not a very classic Croatian example since here are the data that can be given to you for the last 10 years of investment in infrastructure and investment by the unit of local self-government and company Industrial Zone 124 million and 700 thousand kuna. In those 10 years from the state got a million and 800 and something. Here's Mr. Pross signed a contract on a couple hundred thousand kunas the same for building infrastructure, and it's not empty. It's five million squares, 350 business entities and 3500 and varies to, and at this point it's 4 new business entities. And right now there will be exactly this 340 million kuna investment in this free zone because it is part of the project. But what we were saying, we were talking about what the purpose of my speech was today, that the investor wasn't waiting. So the investor wants to invest and he needs speed, because speed is kind of his money. If he gets into these things solving property-legal relations, I don't know what kind of licenses, transfer property from DUDI to the city or something. And then this investor leaves, and there's a lot of struggle to keep him. It's so much money invested in that area. It hasn't come back yet. But it is already returning through the 3500 earned personal incomes, it is already returning through the municipal fee and municipal contribution, not to mention the amount of income for the Republic of Croatia in that part of what will take place in that area. That's why I'm saying it's not a problem if units of local self-government have determined in their space an area of such purpose. It's not a problem how much they invested. The problem is if an investor in that space won't or can't come because our administrative obstacles in his future business make it impossible for him to move on quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105588	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105589	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Klaric, first of all, I am glad that we agree that the report is acceptable and that you will support it. I just wanted to fill in a few allegations from your debate, since you were partly referring to me. First of all, I agree with you that certain investment conditions should exist and that is where we read the 2013 data, so I agree with you. It's hard to track some trends with data that are relatively old, so that's where we absolutely agree. But if I had questioned the existence of some free zones, not that. I mean, I don't know what's going on right now with Kukuljanovo's free zone, or I think we have an example of this free zone of Bjelovar. Of the 60,000 square meters involved in the free zone, half is occupied and taken up by only one user who employs slightly less than 50 workers. So it's only one user can be quite valuable since it's all the processing industry and since everything goes to export. All right, though in EU countries, all production is export-oriented. So some added value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105590	Tomislav Klaric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105591	My colleague Hajdukovic, I'm glad we understand each other because in this House since I've been speaking, I've been talking about the most about this problem that concerns the economy. And the laws that we recently passed to the local self-government unit specifically on my space only in these 4 months into the budget are only based on the less income tax law 2 million and 300 thousand kuna. We'll see by the end of the year. And we have exactly for this business zone of nine completed projects with confirmations of major projects that we can start building infrastructure at any time. And it's not just some kind of road or some kind of current, it's a complete infrastructure that can pass somewhere. That's why I'm telling you, local self-government units have been put in a position with this legal solution to give up investment. So from investments to these business zones and other infrastructures, what the Law and the Communal Economy prescribed for them and everything else. We can't tighten the belt in a way that we're not preparing to create any new possibilities, new values. If no infrastructure is built to a 3500 square-square particle, on that 3500-square-square particle, even if the property-legislative is solved, no one will come because every business entity is looking for water, electricity, gas, rainwater, fecal draining, optics and all that comes. So, we have to give up investment and even get funds from EU funds to build all of this, we have to think about how we will later finance everything that such an object or project will cause. So, you're gonna need to keep it all going. And if we don't have a strategy pre-drawn and pre-defined source of funds then we're in trouble, then we really don't need to think about opening up and thinking about some new business zones because then the economy is in trouble. That's what generates it. That's why I keep saying moto development is down in the field, and the head and the one that will allow that engine to breathe better, to get a good mix of those air fuels so that it can function is just the government and the ministry that often don't listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105592	The final word of Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts Mr Drazen Pros.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105593	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here is a distinguished parliamentary representative, I would like to thank you for your constructive debate and invite you, of course, to unanimously support this 2013 Free Zone Report. Let me just point out once again, so further development of free zones depends on the economic interest of both concessionaries and concession beneficiaries. This second possibility related to re-registration, so some free zones in entrepreneurship zones and the third part, so that we can use EU funds more concretely from the European Regional Development Fund because, specifically for entrepreneurship infrastructure, it is available, so somewhere over 70 million euros. And when we speak, so on this programme financial area, 2014/20. 970m euros are available to the Croatian small economy. So that's something you need to take advantage of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105594	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report tomorrow. My colleagues and colleagues, today we will end the debate. Tomorrow at 9.30 we will discuss the report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for July 2013, and at 12:00 we will vote on the points discussed. Thank you very much. Goodbye! Session interrupted at 1600 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-26-0.u105595	The 2013 Free Zones Report. The debate is closed. I'm putting the report to the vote. Please vote. No, no. Excuse me. No, I don't. I am voting on the following conclusion: The 2013 Free Zone Report is accepted. Please vote on the conclusion. I find that the majority of votes, 108 votes in favour and 1 abstention, and nothing against the vote has been accepted as suggested by the motionary.
