ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104386	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, good morning. We continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament according to the established agenda and the announced agenda point - Final proposal of the law on funeral activity, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 733 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. These are articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Drazen Pross, deputy minister of entrepreneurship and crafts. Here's my colleague Pross.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104387	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys, MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on undertakement, a new law that is passed with the aim of editing and content and methods and conditions for the exercise of funeral activities, rights and obligations of undertakers, professional training, the arrangements of the records of persons with a professional examination to carry out funeral activities, supervision of the application of this law and any other issues that are important for the performance of funeral activities, as regulated by the regulations of other Member States of the European Union, i.e. the State Parties to the European Economic Area, in which the freedom of establishment and the free movement of services is exercised. But let me, before explaining the basic issues that are being regulated by this law, as well as the consequences resulting from the adoption of this law, a brief chronology of the current legal framework for the editing of funeral activities and also an assessment of the current state of affairs in the funeral activity from an economic aspect. Cemetery activity for the time being has been defined by the Law on the municipal economy which determines that municipal affairs are considered to be the maintenance of cemeteries, crematories, but also the transport of a deceased person to a morgue in a cemetery or crematorium. What's important is the funeral activity is in the concession regime. In the period prior to the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Communist Economy of 2004, undertakers freely carried out the transport of dead persons from the place of death to the cemetery, i.e. the crematorium. And at that time, the Croatian Parliament, in its decision on a request for credible interpretation of the laws of 13 December 2002, established that the operations relating to burial or cremation carried out outside the territory of cemeteries and crematories such as takeover, transfer of deceased persons, preparation of dead persons for burial or cremation, sale of funeral equipment, organization of burial or cremation, printing of obituaries, contracting religious rituals and similar transport of deceased persons to a specialised vehicle, from the place of death to the cemetery or crematorium, are jobs that can be carried out freely on the market, provided that they meet the prescribed conditions and do so without concession because they cannot be considered communal jobs. However, the amendments to the Law on the municipal economy in 2004 introduced concessions for the performance of the funeral activity, and the transport of the deceased to a cemetery or crematorium was defined as a communal activity. For the first time in the Republic of Croatia, this final proposal for a law on funeral activity is now detailed and particularly edits the area of mortuary activity, and with a view to greater expertise and security in the performance of the mortuary activity and ultimately in terms of better regulation of the market. What's the current situation? The funeral activity is carried out by legal persons owned by units of local self-government without concessions and by legal and natural persons, therefore private persons, entrepreneurs based on concessions awarded. Local self-government units have full autonomy over the award of concessions for the transport of deceased persons since the funeral activity is naturally defined as a municipal activity. What is a fact, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia today there is indeed a very different approach of the local self-government units in terms of carrying out funeral activities from therefore cities in which funeral activity, primarily transport, is carried out by municipal companies as a whole, such as the cities of Umag, Glina, Samobor, Makarska, Dubrovnik. Then cities where entrepreneurs perform only 10 percent of these jobs such as Virovitica, Karlovac, Varazdin, to those cities where most of the jobs within the funeral activity are carried out by entrepreneurs. Here is Požega, for example, Zabok, Duga Resa, Metković, Koprivnica and some other cities. In addition, it is therefore necessary to regulate the implementation of this segment of entrepreneurial activity in a unique way. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Law on the Communist Economy does not regulate but mentions in addition to performing the municipal activities of the maintenance of cemetery and crematorium and the transport of dead persons who are subject to concessions for natural and legal persons registered for transport while municipal companies owned by units of local self-government carry out such transport without concession. Such a provision in which economic operators actually enjoy different treatment for the benefit of which the founder of the units of local self-government in this case is not in fact in line with the constitutional provisions under which entrepreneurship and market freedom are the cornerstone of the economic order of the Republic of Croatia. The state provides all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market and prohibits the abuse of a monopoly position. This Final Proposal for a Law of Community Activities singled out the activity of transporting deceased persons to a cemetery, i.e. a crematorium in the composition of a cemetery while the activity of maintenance of cemeteries and crematories as well as the burial of dead persons remains unquestionably communal activity and of course has its place in the Law on municipal activity, on the municipal economy. Cemetery activity and transport of the deceased becomes an activity on the market which undertakers undertake the conditions laid down by law only on the territory of the whole of Croatia, the whole territory, and not as it has been so far only in the area in which they have a concession. The maintenance of the cemetery, the cemetery crematorium as well as the burial of the dead remains communal activities, and the burial act itself will take place as before by those companies who are the founder of the units of local self-government, i.e. the basis of the awarded concessions for the maintenance of the cemetery and the like, which is decided by the units of local self-government in accordance with the Law on the municipal economy. The fact is that, in so far, the undertaker is placed in a certain irregular position in relation to the company, public institution or service or own plant established by the local self-government unit and which can carry out this activity without concession. While the undertaker has to pay a concession fee or the local self-government unit has not even awarded a concession. In addition, by limiting the market, and what happens to the existence of concessions remains potential private investment that needs to be planned in the long term. Investments as you know in funeral activities are financially and very high. These are investments in specially manufactured or processed vehicles, these are investments in special space equipment. Concessions are generally allocated to 4 years, paid annually, and the undertaker can only set his development plan for the duration of the concession. In fact, there is no guarantee that the concession will be awarded or that after the current concession period has expired, there is no guarantee that the unit of local self-government will call the concession at all after the end of the concession. There are cities in the Republic of Croatia that do not question concessions at all. The bill also enables investment in funeral activities, as well as the construction of crematorium outside the cemetery as a private initiative. Of course, in areas where this is provided for by a spatial planning of arrangements and, of course, by meeting all those standards and those applicable rules that are also related to health, environmental protection and the like. So in the Republic of Croatia, we have a crematorium in Zagreb that approximately annually cremates 7,000 dead people from all over Croatia. So that's where the deceased from all parts of Croatia are cremated, and then when we do that comparison with, say, the southernmost part of Croatia, you can think of the costs of bringing the deceased to cremation. For example, we have 3 crematoriums in the neighborhood in Slovenia. One is as public as ours in Mirogo. One was built on the principle of public-private partnership, and the third crematorium is a private entrepreneurial initiative. What I want to stress once again is that the construction of crematorium outside the cemetery naturally precedes the planning of it in the spatial-planning documentation of the local self-government unit. Let me have a few more concrete data when we talk about funeral activity and from an economic point of view. The number of funerals on the annual level is over 50,000. Here in particular, in the Republic of 2013 it is 50386. If we look at it as the total value of basic services and products related to the dispatch of deceased persons, so the income that companies owned units of local self-government and entrepreneurs have and we only talk about the basic part of the equipment, the transport of the deceased person, the dispatch then and the burial of cremation etc. It's somewhere around 550 million kuna. In the area of Croatia, there are at most 500 concessions awarded to carry out the funeral activity and based on them in the area of the local self-government unit, at the level of the year, have one revenue from concession fees of about 3 million kuna. For example, the City of Zagreb has 30 concessions awarded with an annual concession fee of about 90 thousand kuna, and it represents annual concession fees where concessions exist varying from a unit of local self-government, so let's say that cities with some 30,000 inhabitants have this concession fee at an annual level of about 30 thousand kuna. And yet that fact shows that the conditions for carrying out this mortuary activity are not the same everywhere. Statistically speaking, in the Republic of Croatia, we have today 52% of these jobs within the framework of the funeral activity that are the subject of this law. Therefore, without the maintenance of the cemetery and the burial of dead persons, which remains of course communal activity is carried out by companies owned by a unit of local self-government, so municipal enterprises, and the rest is carried out by entrepreneurs and undertakers. In the City of Zagreb, the percentage is largely in favour of the undertakers of the undertakers who perform 72%, so the small part is carried out by companies owned by units of local self-government. However, given the size of the City of Zagreb and the number of funerals, it moves around 8500 a year and the number of Zagrebs largely at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia repair statistics on the part of undertakers while the real situation in other parts of Croatia is such that companies owned units of local self-government actually perform the most significant part of funeral jobs. And there's something else I'd like to point out, so after the adoption of this law, municipal affairs that are related to funeral activity, that part of the burial of the deceased, that part that's being done at a cemetery of about 300 million kuna's worth is still exclusively the company's income owned by a local self-government unit. Which are also not excluded from that part of the transport only in this part of the 250 million kuna we have an equal situation with this law. That's the facts. Please also allow a clarification of the essential additions to this final proposal of the Law on undertakement activity in relation to first reading in the Croatian Parliament. In particular, Article 4(1), point (b) of the first subparagraph, the mortuary is added, with the definition of the concept, except for the coroner appointed in accordance with specific regulations governing the organisation and operation of the coroner's office. It is clear, though the organisation and work of the coroner's office has been regulated by special regulations of the Ministry of Health which, in effect, have been disabled by the fact that the coroner is engaged in both funeral activities, however, we have introduced such a restriction into this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. — the transport of a deceased person or postmortem remains from the place of death to the competent pathology or judicial medicine in conditions where it is not possible to determine the cause of death without an autopsy shall be carried out by means of a contract to entrust the operations of the transport of the deceased, hence the deceased person concluded with the unit of local self-government. Such transport, which I stress is not a concession, is not carried out freely on the market but is based on a contract concluded on the supply of transport operations. That's actually how it's been regulated so far. In Article 25, legal and natural persons who are transported by deceased persons from death to competent pathology or judicial medicine shall carry out on the basis of a contract to entrust municipal transactions concluded with units of local self-government and, in accordance with the Law on the municipal economy, continue to carry out that transport of the deceased person until the term of validity of the contract. Therefore, those contracts, which are based on the provisions of the Law on the Communist Economy, shall be valid until their expiry, and then shall be concluded on the basis of this provision of the new Law on burial activity. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – undertakers who are registered in the relevant register on the date of entry into force of this law may access the examination of professional training without obligation to comply with the conditions of at least completed secondary vocational education during a three-year period. Thus, the application of the rights acquired by the Institute allows existing undertakers to access the expert training exam independently of the degree of professional training at their disposal on the date of entry into force of this law. In line with EU legislation, allow also a brief review. Directive 2006/123 of the EC on services on the internal market in Croatian legislation has been adopted by the Services Act. And now, in order to further comply with that directive, it sets out a particular segment of mortuary activity beyond the scope of the communal activity, and I repeat this once more especially when taking over, equipping and transporting a deceased person to a cemetery or crematorium. All of the above are transactions that a natural and legal person must carry out freely on the market if he meets the prescribed conditions and does so without a concession, because these transactions cannot be considered exclusively communal transactions. The existing situation is contrary to that Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12.12.2006 on services on the internal market. Because it affirms the principle of freedom of movement of goods, the principle of freedom of business, the principle of freedom of provision of services, the principle of competition and the principle of prohibition of discrimination. Therefore, once again, the final proposal for this law proposes to abolish concessions and regulation of content, methods and conditions of carrying out mortuary activities, rights and obligations of undertakers, meeting the conditions of its professional training, the records of those persons with a professional examination to carry out the mortuary activity, by the way, of professional training as well as the records themselves are conducted by the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen. There is, of course, control over the application of the law and all other issues that are important for the execution of a mortuary of activity. What I would like to point out is that, equally, under the same conditions, the funeral activity of this law will also be able to carry out undertake mortuary activities based on the territory of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the requirements laid down in the regulations of the EU Member State or of the Contracting State of the European Economic Area in which they are established. At the same time and once again, it is clear that the jobs are related to the funeral or cremation carried out outside the territory of the cemetery or crematorium such as the takeover, the transfer of the deceased person, the preparation of deceased persons for burial or cremation, the sale of funeral equipment, the organization of burial or cremation, the printing of obituaries, the negotiation of religious rituals and the like, and the transport of deceased persons by special vehicles from the place of death to the morgue or crematorium are jobs that can be carried out freely on the market if they meet the prescribed conditions and do so without concession because they cannot be considered communal jobs. In conclusion, respected parliamentary representatives and advocates, the creation of such a legislative framework for the implementation of a mortuary activity in the Republic of Croatia is systematically governed by the exercise of funeral activities on the principles of the debt of pytetic and respect for the deceased and the grieving family, the conditions for carrying out the mortuary activity, the way of professional training for the performance of the mortuary activity, and the practice of monopoly on this by companies owned by local self-government units are abolished. In view of the inexplicable conditions of survival in the market for economic operators in this activity, one such legal framework should be implemented, which allows for equal market conditions. That is why, in this entrepreneurial activity, it is necessary to abolish the outcome of concessions, i.e. to eliminate some additional administrative barriers and for the sake of, and I repeat once again, a safer, more professional, more quality of the performance of this part of entrepreneurship activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104388	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a few replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104389	The Honorable Deputy Minister, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, all of which, one sentence that you have repeated several times I have remembered, the terms of the undertaker's activity are not the same everywhere. That's your reason, that's your excuse to take as many of the local self-government units as possible and to centralize. Behind this law should be the last article all of you welcome by your Minister Maras and everything will be in his hands. This is actually incomprehensible, when you came to power, you said you'd decentralize the state and now you're centralizing even funeral activity because all decisions will be made in the ministry. And that's, I think it's precedent. You even made it impossible for local self-government units to earn money on that, because you said that yourself 500 million kuna is earned annually. The other thing that's very important, you said that the funeral activity is in one hand that it won't be like that now, that's your sentence, one of the initials, in one hand is only in the funeral activity one part of it the believers know in whose hands is one part of that funeral activity. Outside, you were talking about what could be done outside the cemetery area. If you remember we were arguing, one of the first laws that was complemented by the law, was that you could work morgues outside the cemetery and only then you also lex it, called one lex law for one of today's ministers. This is more orderly, the second reading is a better sense of law, but you've done everything to centralize all decisions and how, and you justify the market. So tell me, which court is uniquely acting in the Republic of Croatia, which courts in the units are acting unitedly? That way it won't be here either. It's your only decision to centralize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104390	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister Drazen Pross.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104391	Thank you very much, Your Honor. However, this is not about any Maras law, but it is really about the need for the first time a special arrangement of an important piece of entrepreneurial activity that is a funeral activity. So this isn't about centralization, it's not about a variant where local self-government units are taking something away. The unit of local self-government continues, and can continue to do the work of funeral activities. This is just about putting them in that part, so all those funeral activities that are tied to a cemetery in an equal position, an equal position on the market. So nobody's taken anything here but puts it in an equal position. And it's not about decentralisation. It's not some kind of centralization, it's actually about the fact that local self-government units can be freely on the market together with the private undertakers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104392	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104393	Yes, Europe has also started to regulate our funeral services, it is too much from Europe, neither in death, nor in funeral we are no longer independent nor independent, nor independent, etc. You told Mr. Deputy Minister that Europe guarantees freedom of movement of goods. If they're dead goods, then it's just bad for all of us. The funeral activity is, we noticed it from these figures of serious business. In Croatia, over 50,000 funerals will say that the Croatian market is worth, if it is worth 550 million kuna, that is 70 million euros, so we can speak from 70 to 100 million euros. So what are we doing with this law? We're liberalizing the market. So the dead are no longer just a monopoly, so to speak, the privileged goods of our churches are already going under quotes to the market. The unions are rebelling against this law. Why? Maybe it's because a bunch of those undertakers have been joined by the union so far. On the other hand, we see that the undertakers are absolutely up to the law. So far, local self-government has somehow controlled the price of services, and the question is what will be tomorrow. Whether services in this liberalisation of ours and each liberalisation so far has always been more expensive or simply will remain at the existing level. And another question arises, where will employees from these former municipal services of our municipalities or cities. Not a problem of centralization, decentralisation, that question is not raised here Because even local self-government can be centralized, but whether services will be more expensive or will be equal under quotes... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104394	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Minister Drazen Pross.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104395	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Perhaps once again, very clearly and precisely. So by quoting this directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, I said what it says. Therefore, the principle of freedom of movement of goods, the principle of freedom of business, the principle of freedom of provision of services, is affirmed. So we're not talking about goods here, we're also talking about services, if so, the principle of competition and the principle of non-discrimination. What about the people who work in local self-government units? They'll probably do the same job they've been doing so far, only they'll have to be trained professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104396	Dear Representative Branko Hrg. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104397	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy, one sentence you said at first actually burned me, so I volunteered for the replica, the local self-government units have full autonomy and concessions. If that's the main reason for amending this law, then it's not a good reason because it's not reasoned enough. We can't because maybe some units of local self-government didn't implement the concession, maybe they didn't allow this activity to develop in their area of private entrepreneurship to punish all those who did it. And you yourself said that there are a lot of local self-government units that have their concessions, so that they have allowed funeral activity in their own areas. I agree with this that borders must be lifted, because it's really funny that a dead person should be overloaded at the border of some imaginary, borderline local self-government and that's definitely what I think is right. Cemetery activity, Article 8 and the funeral organization of dispatches and then you have 6, 7, 8 points described individually. So is this funeral funeral organization not all that's written below? Was it necessary to taxively list a musical, musical escort, I don't know, glue... or something like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think that's necessary because it's all about this. But what I'm still interested in, so I'm asking you for an explanation. Would it not be normal for it to be parallel to these amendments to the law and to amend the Law on the Communist Economy which is now prescribed this activity? Because you should probably get this out of that law right now, get it out of here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104398	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Deputy Minister Drazen Pross.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104399	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, of course, the part that concerns complete autonomy, which has bothered you. The fact is that units of local self-government had that autonomy, many of them did not even call concessions. In doing so, we have not now given a complete review but in particular in your Križevci, the distinguished Mr. Parliamentary Representative and Mayor of the Cross, as far as we know, is that right, private entrepreneurs are doing their job and to a greater extent. So it wasn't part of it. ... Yeah, that's it, that's it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104400	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is the Croatian Labour Labour Party in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, Comrade Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104401	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. So that's when we first discussed this law, then Minister Maras said that the law would come to a second reading very soon. He even hoped it would be very soon after New Year's Eve, but here's the thing, I think it's almost four months ago that this law is in another reading, and it hasn't suffered any significant changes. But basically what was contained in the law in the first reading is what I support today because it is primarily about what is to be said that this law abolished the monopoly on municipal enterprises that were linked to local self-government units and thus brought this activity, funeral activity and undertakers into an uninvited situation. In particular, those who were able to carry out the transport of the deceased according to concessions could only be in the area of concessions, and not outside the concession, which clearly required a very big problem in the transport of the deceased, but in fact some of them could not even achieve the concession and put them in an unspeakable position, and thus that part of the freedom of action was also limited. This way enables and regulates this law of mortuary activity, it clearly prescribes through these 29 articles everything that is necessary and most important to be regulated because the deputy minister here said it was one activity and according to the data, over 50,000 people die annually, and that means that the daily is about 150 people. It means that there are significant numbers of people to whom clear regulation should be laid down both because of the family and because of the piety to the dead. It is also pointed out that the cost of the funeral activity is about half a billion, which is a significant part of the financial resources and clearly that within that law is prescribed when it comes to the handling of the funeral activity that the prices must then be highlighted, that professional training must be prescribed, that everything that should be done in the case of this activity is prescribed by law. Of course we would like to, and we warned that we were in the first reading, related to the law to be regulated as the only activity because it is a specific activity and as such the only activity it would in some way be better regulated, but this is also a significant shift when it comes to regulating this area because somewhere around 10 years of undertakers' organisations are fighting a battle to fight on the free market, so that they can come to that place so that they can work and have some kind of security and possibility of investing in their activity. Of course, when it comes to speaking here and the unions opposing this law, I know that only one union has stood up in this part but I must say why. Because it is again a monopoly of municipal activities and clearly that non-organised trade unions are not organised through entrepreneurs in this case but are organised through municipal companies, they seek to protect employees working in these utility companies. But when it comes to monopoly then clear, and it tells us in some way, a report by the State Office for Audit not in this case specifically about all municipal enterprises, but companies owned by units of local self-government, which is a question related to the functioning of these companies, and it is in some way to give information that there are established companies that are funded by donations from local budgets up to 99%, which clearly says that when it comes to units of local self-governments, and they are in some way institutions in which political similarities are being engulfed and in some ways the part is emerging. According to some data on utility companies, there are about 40,000 employees inside. Whether a rational, quality municipal company is set up, we can discuss it in another way but the municipal enterprises remain the issue of managing the cemetery and no one is taking it away from them. It is clear that the Register of Dead Persons must be conducted, clearly that there must be a cemetery, and clearly where local units and self-government cannot do so then by contract it will regulate that someone else will do it for them. In this way, utility companies are not placed in any worse position. They are also on the market and they should also offer their price. On the basis of supply and demand, one who will have to take care of his deceased persons and about that part about his financial ability to cover these costs clearly will choose who will make a cheaper and better offer. Clearly, there we are different from those who can allocate far greater resources to those who cannot and the most basic needs covered when it comes to the funerals of their loved ones and those who have died. Some are also in debt for a year to cover that part of the minimum cost, since according to some data, a funeral without £6,000 is difficult to carry out at that part of the minimum cost. What needs to be said in particular when it comes to this law, according to some information that I have come to have around 350 funeral crafts or companies somewhere and that they employ about 1,000 employees. And clearly that's the area that this law regulates. Of course, there are also criminal provisions in this law for those who do not comply with the provisions of the law and the competent inspection which will punish and do not allow in that part for the specific activities to be carried out by these activities and funeral companies in order to carry out certain controls and to avoid certain side effects. Clearly, you can never say that sometimes something will happen that can clearly pop out of these rules both according to the piety and the deceased person and everything else. For example, we could hear what had happened to us in Slovenia for a long time that one undertaker in his home had died in a refrigerator because it was cheaper for him to drive to save at the price. I don't think it's going to happen in Croatia, and if it's going to happen to someone else, then clearly there are inspections that will ban such activity and they won't be able to allow it. And clearly, if someone thinks to do that, it will be a message to everyone else that they will never be able to do that again. That's why we support this law. We think he's a step forward with that remark that I said I'd be glad to have him regulate and that's the only activity. We think that they would then round this whole whole block in a way that is responsible for this business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104402	Thank you, too. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit. The first is counterpart Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104403	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow service that citizens have received over the past 25 years as social ones, and as far as human rights are concerned, I guess death is a human right for all of us, all waiting for us, i.e. Education, health, and so on have become better privatization, and the more expensive they must have become. Living in the vast majority of them did not profit from privatisation. Now, do you really think that the dead and their living relatives who remain after them will be better off liberalizing this job, because now it's nothing more than a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104404	Thank you. Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104405	My colleague Vuljanić, so I can't agree with you first and so far, the concessions had private undertakers, they were doing that part of the job. The other thing is, we had a colorful situation. Somewhere they allowed these concessions, somewhere they didn't, somewhere there was a monopoly, they existed somewhere and they were gone, so these companies were brought into an unspeakable situation that they had to close down because they didn't have any more concessions. And the question that nothing inside of it changes. And now utility companies can do this part. This is exclusively about the transport of the deceased, which is regulated, and remains what has been done so far, because so far, the monopoly has been the transport of the deceased exclusively on utility companies owned by the local self-government unit. Well, I guess you don't think that transporting the deceased is a question that you mentioned here is important when it comes to that part of the social role related to this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104406	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104407	Dear fellow Tušak, you spoke in your presentation in the introduction of the monopoly. Now all of a sudden, the left-hand monopoly has become some taboo topic, actually a topic that needs to be broken down and introduced by the market for everyone. They say the monopoly of the state is just a worse monopoly private. So we're going to have in some parts of the state probably do everything to make local self-government units lose as much influence as possible on more and more jobs and to take away more funds from them so that private people can make as much money as possible. There used to be talk of a monopoly of the military. Remember, it was unimaginable that the military were privatizing parts of the army. Today, privatizing parts of the U.S. military is the most normal thing. Why? Because they realized that there was the biggest money. That's where hundreds of billions of dollars turn and that's why it's privatized. He's not privatized to be a better army. So is this. I doubt why you say local self-government all the time. If I were to make a decision, I wouldn't decide, I would just leave the whole business in the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit because I have more trust in them than I have in the privatisation that you're so committed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104408	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104409	Thank you. So, colleague Vuksic, I repeat again that the monopoly cannot be the transport of the deceased. Family, I guess the family will choose who will carry the deceased and the family will negotiate. And when it comes to local self-government units, then it's precisely because of the variety we have when it comes to this law somewhere, I repeat, we have concessions, we have no concessions somewhere, so we have lifted concessions, so the utility companies owned by the local self-government unit have increased the price of their services three to four times. And that's what the citizens of that local self-government unit pay for. Now they will have a situation that utility companies will also offer their services as well as private businesses so citizens will choose what is better and better for them and for the quality that suits them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104410	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104411	Well, here's a fellow MP you've said a few things that make you not familiar with the problem at all. You mentioned something that's real and offensive, when you said that in utility companies, it's politically entrenched, especially in this one. If it's political tampering to hire people who dig a grave or who carry a deceased or who transport him, then it's little I don't know how useful political employment is. As for the diversity and charms of the 2004 law, and I've done it before and after, and I know how to do it, order has been introduced. Don't you find it strange that we pass the Law on burial activity in which we prescribe only one of the funeral jobs – the transport of the deceased. What's the transport of the deceased? What about other things? Someone needs to build a cemetery, someone needs to equip the morgue, someone needs to organize all these jobs. There's only one thing here, we're putting something on the market, and there's just a mess going on. You count when you talk about these thousands and I don't know how many employees and entrepreneurs who have many services will be on the market where the person in charge of the cemetery will not be in control and do these jobs under the Law on the Communist Economy. We're passing one law, an entire law for only one activity. Let's get the drinking water delivered to the free market and some utility companies build pipelines, draws, draws from the source, and someone else delivers. That's how this was banalized to make someone possible. Because it's not true that entrepreneurs today can't do this job under this law. It's only a matter of order, a competition is being held in the units of local self-government that decide to do so. They question the concession and award concessions and have full control over the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104412	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104413	My colleague Klaric, you probably didn't listen well to me, so you say it's offensive when I say it's about love. In my speech, I said that companies owned by a local self-government unit and didn't refer to utility companies. So there are other companies and some of the companies that you'll have on the record here in Parliament, see when it comes to that State Audit Office where out of 174 companies are employed somewhere around 30,000 to make 24% of the donations from the budget... Now the question is, what do they serve? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when you talk about this part of the cemetery management issue, no one takes away, it's exclusively owned by a unit of local self-government to build, which will maintain this cemetery, which will charge for that maintenance of the cemetery and charge for every cemetery. It won't go to funeral homes, it'll go to local self-government units. Because of the public and the truth, I have to say it because it's true. And this is all that you've said that's none of your business. It's regulated by the Law on Community Activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104414	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104415	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear colleague, I would return to this debate in the content of the law because I think that this kind of law must be very, very precise and in detail... It's because of the subject he's talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to mention article 4 here where certain concepts are explained and talk about the care of the deceased and then list what it is, including haircuts and manication and makeup. It doesn't seem to me to be quite a list of these kinds of activities, I think it would be enough to say that these are all activities that are in line with the wishes of the deceased or the desire of his family. Because to list makeup, manication, and hairstyles in the law somehow seem to me to be really inappropriate, which here includes both dress and dress, and it's not safe for his body. Another matter related to Article 13 where business reputation is mentioned for those undertakers who are not able to perform or have a business reputation that does not have certain types of undertakers is those who, twice over one year, quote, are "punished for the offence related to the conduct of the funeral activity". It's unclear here if it's twice in every current year. If that's the case or not, anyway, why twice? So it would be enough for someone to break the law once and then have no reputation. But you can't tell from an article like this, can you tell if it's a two-time misdemeanor every year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104416	Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104417	Thank you. I agree with your observations that are within the law, I mean I'm not the Proposer, that might be more relevant to the Proposer but probably this part of the list is because of that price list that must be, every mortuary must have a prominent price list because if it doesn't, it's also a violation that you spoke of in Article 12. Now, whether someone will have a list of these outstanding prices, whether what you say in Article 13, is not clearly defined, whether in the year, this will clearly have to be these inspections in such a way and clearly, if possible, it might be even better to pass the law if that part is to be specified, but it remains primarily for me to propose that I fully agree with your observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104418	Thank you, too. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the HDSSB's Club of Representatives and Honorable Representative Igor Cešek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104419	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Deputy Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. This proposal of the Law on burial activity, although there are 29 articles that are very brief but do not speak enough about funeral activity and what we can conclude when we read the law that the Proposer considers to be the undertakers of goods. This seems from the very reasoning of the law, we had the first reading on 12.11.2014 that the minister said that the applicant's intensity by 15.12.2014 that this bill goes beyond the second reading and adoption of the law, today it is 18.03., not much delay just 3 months, I think we are already quite used to the legislative proposals of this government. The promoter himself said that we have about 50 so many thousand funerals a year, which is about a devastating number, because if we know that 40,000 children are born then we see that funeral activities fall into a good business in the Republic because every year more and more funerals and fewer children born. And that roughly proceeds from the mortuary activity of about 500 million kuna per year, and that 52% of funeral services are performed by municipal companies and 48% by entrepreneurs. As far as the law itself is concerned, I have already said that he has few articles, we could at the beginning of reading the first articles of the law, say that it is about neatly written, because the first articles speak about what is the undertaker, which is the undertaker of the funeral, which is the funeral activity and what is considered a funeral activity, so the organisation of the transport, the transport of the deceased person's transport, the organisation of the funeral or dispatch, the sale of funeral equipment and funeral supplies, the organization and the sale of flowers and candles, the organisation of the notification of death, the organisation of music services, the organisation and the provision of services, the bodies of the deceased, the organisation of religious rituals, the cremation of the deceased outside the cemetery and the organization of the dispersion of the ashes of the deceased in nature. So, everything other than the burial of the deceased belongs to the funeral activities, and that is here and as a colleague Kosor said just now, perhaps even described in detail what this is about, and I will look back later on the other articles of the law, which show that certain items are not clearly defined in contrast to this article. What makes me particularly sad when we talk about this topic is the burial process itself, and here last week a dissatisfied citizen came to me and showed me the account of a municipal company dealing with a local self-government unit, and really, when you look at that account a little bit later, it turns out that there's some illogicalness in the funeral itself and the burial price. So, what did the man tell me? In the account itself, the additional price for funerals outside of working hours, where the municipal company charges 760 kuna if you bury the deceased outside the working hours of the utility company. So it turns out to be cheaper to die and bury the deceased in the morning and working days than it is possible to do on weekends or afternoons. This is embarrassing for me. The funeral and funeral transport in this account is 171 kuna, imagine the company’s headquarters to the local cemetery has a distance of about a mile, a mile and a half and they charge for the transportation of employees 171 kuna. The locals of the suburban village themselves built a morgue in their local cemetery, donated construction material themselves, built it themselves so that their deceased could lie in a suitable place until the burial time, and now they must pay the municipal company 500 kuna to the deceased. So, perhaps some rules should also be considered how to regulate this extremely difficult period for the deceased's family in order to get over it as easily as possible because we know what the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia is and these prices are extremely unfavourable for the families of the deceased. To return to the draft law, Article 10, was also in the first reading of the word on this article, he tells us about the transport of dead persons and post-mortem remains, here I find it rather unclear how this will be done because the article says: "That the transport is carried out by a funeral vehicle which must meet the technical and sanitary conditions in accordance with the specific regulation for the purpose of issuing an atom of a vehicle atest in the technical inspection stations of a vehicle, the atest is issued for imported funeral vehicles which are made and attested in the Member State of the EU and the State Contracting Parties to the Treaty on European Economic Area." It is not defined by this Article how many times that atest must be performed, whether it is carried out or carried out in each technical examination, or whether it is sufficient to obtain an atest once in 5 years, 10 years or 15 because we know that motor vehicles of course and break down and become older, more inappropriate. And for that very reason, I find this article controversial that doesn't say that an atom has to be published every year. Because the very appearance of the vehicle shows one dignity to the past person and the age of the vehicle itself. Furthermore in Article 11 is the legislator here we can say well fit this article, he talks about ensuring potential damages that can occur throughout the funeral process. But when we talk about a solution to meeting the conditions for performing a funeral activity here we see some data and what is prescribed, or what the request contains, which must contain a request for a solution. What I find controversial here among other data requires a solution and contains evidence of ownership or rental of a parking lot for funeral vehicles. that there is a place available where it can hold a funeral vehicle in a way that meets minimum, technical and organisational conditions for safe parking. What does that mean? Does it have to be an annual parking ticket? If the vehicle is parked in the yard where the funeral home is located, then what must they do, do they have to remove some kind of confirmation from the catastra to show that they can park the vehicle somewhere? I also find this article of the law very, very vague and very undefined. Furthermore, when we talk about professional training, Article 18 states that the undertaker must meet the special condition of professional training to carry out the mortuary activity or to hire a full-time worker who meets this condition. Does professional training have to be given to all workers employed by a natural or legal person who has a basic and unique activity, a mortuary activity? Or is it enough to have only one employee with a passed professional training exam? In addition, Article 19 of the Sectional Training Exam may be accessed by a person with at least completed secondary vocational education in a three-year study. And there is nothing disputed here, but if we look at Article 27, which tells us that the undertakers who are on the date of entry into force of this law are registered in the relevant register, can access the examination of professional training without the obligation to comply with the conditions of minimum secondary vocational education completed in a three-year period. So Article 27 and Article 19 do not speak one thing. I think they're putting an unequal position of the person who's been dealing with the mortuary activity so far and the person who's involved in the physical and legal persons who want to engage in the funeral work in the future. So we at the HDSSB club think that in this law it stays, we can call them that, certain holes that the promoter, here in two readings, failed to correct. The liberalisation of the market, yes, we can agree with that, but in the event of a funeral activity with strict supervision so as not to violate dignity towards the deceased but also his family. And precisely for these reasons that I stated in the discussion, the HDSSB club will not support the adoption of such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104420	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, we have one replica from your club, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104421	Thank you very much, colleague Chesek. You were talking about the fact that utility companies simply at their prices and certains in those prices, so they simply blackmail the price list people who simply have to bury the deceased. So what you said, so the funeral outside the working hours of 760 kuna, transporting employees to the cemetery 170 kuna. Look, in another utility company in Slavonia, there's also a bell at the cemetery, so 100 kuna, there's 120 kuna, although there's no room for... There it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Two nylons 200 kuna. The opening and closing of the tomb of 150 kuna and up to 3,000 kuna. When you talk about the undertakers themselves, then we need to know that this law will not solve what is happening today in funeral services, which is that some undertakers have certain connections with both the coroners and the hospitals because most people, some people in hospitals working on pathology, etc., are making recommendations for that and that undertaker. It's paid under the grain, under the arm, this law doesn't say anything about it, and we all know well that some people work for certain undertakers, starting with the coroners and to some people in hospitals, and for that, they get a little bit in their pocket to recommend it and not the other one. This competition we're talking about here, so it's going to stay illegal or unfair even after the law's passed because it didn't predict this kind of thing that I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104422	Replication response, distinguished representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104423	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Grubisic. That you have well detected this virtual nepotism and we can say free and corruption when it comes to the connection between funeral companies, mortuary and hospitals, or health institutions, but these prices of burial are particularly worrying because indeed a man has spoken to me and has contributed to me a bill, a man who has a pension of 1600 kuna and in all his pain and grief he buried a father who was also not much richer than he was and when the bill arrived he even cried even more. So his father buried in his local cemetery, his father took part in the construction of the morgue, his father paved the way, made, let's say he built this cemetery to eventually bury 4200 kuna. That's what grieves. And that is why I said that this law does not solve such things, does not solve nepotism, and that is why the law as a law does not bring us anything special new to resolve these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104424	Dear Representative Damir Cain has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104425	What needs to be feared, feared, is that opening up the market, especially in the part of the transfer of the deceased from death to the cemetery or crematorium, will lead to unfair competition, and ultimately to an increase in the entire service. And so far, I've been told by trade unionists that entrepreneurs sell funeral equipment and organize burials, the printing of obituaries, the signing of rituals, and based on concessions issued by local self-government units, they could also take over and transport the deceased from the place of death to the morgue. The proceeds carry the takeover and transport of the deceased from the place of death to the cemetery, and everything else is said by the side. And what is also interesting, Slovenia has been a member of the European Union for 10 years and has not been liberalised yet, better said, has not yet opened that market in order to say capital but continues to consider that market as a "market" activity of public interest. And Hungary has in its own time liberalised that "market" and after a complete chaos that took place there is once again returning to the old one. I believe that this is an activity of public interest and that, as such, it should remain in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104426	Replication response, distinguished representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104427	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Caine, you mentioned that with this law there will be a hunt for the deceased, a hunt for the goods, a hunt for the hunt. It could be said so because what I said myself is not sufficiently defined by articles, by certain articles of the law, in which those vehicles that are used to transport the deceased will be able to atest, how long will that atom be valid. 'Cause we're not gonna be importing used vehicles from Germany and other European Union countries that I don't know if they're going to pass an eco-test or not, maybe they pass the first time and get atest, and then it happens to us after two or three years our deceased's driving, and behind it goes some black smoke from the car's exhaust. This would be really sad, and this article does not define the concept of adhesion of such vehicles anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104428	We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Tomislav Klaric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104429	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Deputy Minister with assistants, colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. We are discussing a proposal for a law on mortuary activity, about a banal law that regulates a kind of activity that takes place in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in units of local self-government. But it's not so harmless if we look at a package of all the laws that have been passed over the past period, which applies in jurisdiction and in the work of local self-government, municipalities and cities themselves. Here I will mention the Law on the abolition of mountain-mounted status where units of Gorski Kotar themselves lost more than 50 million kuna. So here I can mention the Law on Local Self-Government which, unlike the 2009 one, caused only in the past month 14 crises of extraordinary elections and stagnations in those units of local self-government, council consolidation and everything else. Here I can mention a whole series of such laws, not to mention these tax laws where units of local self-government have lost funds. Does this government fear the units of local self-government, whether it deliberately or simply doesn't know what it's doing? I've got a saying in the coast, and nobody's going to be offended, so it says, "Cha eena spoils what smart people can't fix." We have in 2004, until 2004, this was exactly the situation the ministry proposes. In 2004, the Law on the Communist Economy regulated exactly what we're talking about today, funeral activity. Cemetery activity isn't just the transport of the deceased, and here in this law they speak most exclusively and you can see exactly the goal, the target, the target, the transport of the deceased. What about all the other activities? And today and according to the existing law, what is said here is what is involved in the funeral work, that part and the funeral equipment, flowers, wreaths, boxes, burials, excavations, exhumation and all that, and today, most of it is on the free market. They don't have utility companies of their florists... they don't have manufacturers of their own boxes, there are companies that do that. The transport of the deceased, I'm responsible for telling you because I know it well, because I've been in this business for many years and deciding who, which and how in the field of the local self-government unit. The transport of the deceased himself is the smallest part of that market. See how much unit prices are per km of any concessionaire or where units of local self-government have decided in one way or another. Three or four kunas maybe a mile, I'm transporting the deceased. What should have been regulated, not by this law, by not passing a new law with which I fully agree with private requirements, that they are not limited exclusively to the area of cities and municipalities where they have a concession. Why not allow a concessionaire from Zagreb or someone who performs a funeral activity to transport... other units of local self-government that has another concessionaire to that area. That part can be solved in a different way, but not this one. I'm not passing a law like this that directly disturbs that. Someone here mentioned that municipal societies are funded, or dotted from municipal, urban budgets. Well, of course, where it's going to be financed if not from the city budget, because local self-government units are organizing that part of life in their area. Local self-government units through these companies and maintaining the green area and providing services throughout their territory and funding and funds for this purpose are provided for in their budget as well. Cemetery activity in the area of each unit of local self-government is realised from citizens' income through grave fees, through the sale of graves, through this type of income. The minister here said something that doesn't hold his water, that these companies are also on the market owned by local units. They're not companies, they're municipal companies of the Minister or they were lapus when you said so. Local self-government units can start a company, and that's what we're gonna do. My advice is that if a law like this is passed that units of local self-government are just set up in their possession by such a company, it will be on the market, and at least in this way it will be able to control what is happening in its area. The units of local self-government are all these laws that have recently been passed exactly as Mr Vuksic said here, it seems to me that many functions and many decisions are being made here in Zagreb, and the units of local self-government are being transferred to obligations. For example, the units of local self-government only according to this removal of mountain-mountan area status talk about the Gorski kotar here, where they were taken away over 50 million kunas had planned these funds in their plans. They took loans, built infrastructure, among other things, that cemetery. Now they've been stripped of those assets, and they have to pay back their loans because they don't have that income. A whole series of laws like this that disturbs something that is orderly, defined and functioning on the ground doesn't need to be changed, we can fix. We can make certain adjustments, but we can pass one law that bears the sound name of the Law on undertakement of all other funeral activities to speak only of the transport of the deceased and the sole purpose of passing this law is that part of the market. And the reason for my speech comes from the fact that you could all read from the media, which was just said by those entrepreneurs that they had finally waited for the deceased to become market goods. It's inadmissible, it's inadmissible to even think about it that way. The deceased is not market goods, and there can be no units of local self-government on his field, no matter what anyone thinks of them, of some commissioner, of some council, of a council president or of the services they work there. Far more control over all these jobs than anyone else, far more public involvement than with some private entrepreneurs, respecting their way of working, respecting their desire to make the proceeds that are good. But now they're allowed to do it. It has been mentioned here how many hundreds of them are doing today, it has been mentioned here how many they work through concession contracts, a transparent tender, price offers, a final decision by the City Council, a four-year contract, and it is practically not a local self-government unit, but it is he who has the signed contract that has a monopoly in the area of the local self-government unit. I don't see why it needs to be changed. Commercial companies owned by a local self-government unit. If such a law is passed, the units of local self-government that want to do so will be included in the full work that is related to funerals and funeral activities will be founded by these companies, and then the units of local self-government and that is my advice, if this law is passed, establish a part of your municipal society to be a company and do that again. 'Cause anyway, everything else that's been done, that physical part of the job, I'm not gonna say dirty, but that physical part of the job at the cemetery is doing that municipal enterprise from his maintenance, from his haircut, from the basket, from the dig of the grave, from the maintenance of the morgue and everything else. There are only some carriers here, and someone here mentioned the possibilities and connections to the pathologist and finding out who is in what situation we are in exactly what they have declared themselves, that they have finally welcomed the deceased to become market goods. It can't be, I repeat it again, it can't be. Here, in the context of the law, they worked hard and wrote everything about the funeral activity: taking over, transporting the deceased person, preparing the deceased for burial or cremation, paying off, editing the deceased, embalming, selling the funeral person coffin, cross, transporting the deceased to a special vehicle of the place of death, cemetery, jobs that can be free of charge and thus meet the prescribed conditions without concession, because they cannot be considered communal jobs. Oh, please! What's going on today? Same thing. Also someone some private company or factory or already who manufactures some kind of, someone produces wreaths, someone does some carpenters produce crosses and it's on the market. It's being sold and it's okay that's the way it is. So it's not just these 1,000 and some carriers involved in that, let's say business. A large circle of people has been included, and the local self-government unit is there some kind of regulator in its area to regulate all these affairs. After all, and through a contest to get a better price for its citizens. I repeat, the deceased is not market goods. It says here what kind of vehicle is being driven. And now let's say hypothetically when, under the existing 2004 law, units of local self-government that had no utility were founded by utility companies. They didn't hire as Mr. Tušak said on some political line or incarceration, but they hired people physically to do that part of the job on the ground. They bought cars, freezers, boxes, that's the condition, they built morgues, they bought equipment, they did that part of the job, they hired a driver to drive. What's going to happen to them now? And as a utility, they can't be on the market that way as private. So this company must be founded. The whole deal with this law as proposed is not covered. Or we can kick him out of the Law on the Communist Economy so we can make a special law as the Proposer and propose a special Law on funeral activities where all these funeral activities and all these jobs will be related to that definition. The opinion of the Association of Cities has been completely ignored here. What do you think these people don't know what they're proposing and how they work? Associations of municipalities and cities, municipal enterprises. A whole series of memos has been sent to this law. And here you convey the debate that Mr. Linic said will not be driving in a drawer or what I said or I do not know Mr. Branko Vuksic. Guys, this is such a sensitive question, about a harmless law that defines something, which will later be broken down by the most local self-government units you don't care about. And here it's said that, part of the business, 96% of the jobs of these utility companies are funded from the budget, I've already talked about it. One part of the business, this municipal enterprise does not have to hang on to the citizens' budget alone, so it has to accomplish something else. If we don't think about what we're doing? How many people are employed, we don't have that information, in all municipal companies at the level of the Republic of Croatia, in all municipalities and cities? And what are these units doing, and what is an expert cook at the end, and we are talking and caring about jobs in our area? So the 2004 Community Economy Act introduced order. In this way, by extracting from this law a particular segment of activity is introduced mess. That's definitely it. As disorder was introduced in the units of local self-government who were sure to take loans to build infrastructure, kindergartens, equip schools and all, that their move and raise their hands here one day in the Parliament had taken that status and taken away from the vital interest of the funds from their budget. Here, I'm recently reading in the New Journal of Chavelle Municipality, she had to reprogramme her loans, now they're currently building a kindergarten, they've lost only that 8 million kuna move. You know what 8 million kuna means to that community, which is more developed? And imagine Locks, Fuzines, Chabar! We took their money to pay for a study we won't end up using, apparently 60 million kuna. The mountain cotter has been taken 50 already. Let's not touch local self-government units. Local self-government units organise life, organise ultimately and create preconditions for economic development, entrepreneurship and everything else. Here, there's the assistant minister, we presented and passed the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, and we limited the units of local self-government because we brought in that famous provision that within a 20-mile radius, the area of total filling must be in a certain percentage. Can you imagine, please? Here, let's think about when we bring something like this, what we do on the ground, and what consequences in the finality of all this which a raise of hands can make for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104430	Thank you very much. 10 replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. Dear Representative Marijan Skuric, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104431	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear colleague, you've begun to argue with one statement that I'm sure you know what this is about as mayor and head of your municipality. And then I can also be there in some way the same set up because I've been mayor for more than 10 years, I guess I know what this law is saying, and then I wonder if we're even living in the same state? What are we talking about? And now to deny all these allegations that you've made here, I guess it would take us half a day to sort of defuse it all. But you don't have to. I think at the outset, the Deputy Minister was absolutely truthfully professional in saying everything about this law. I'd just say some things, since 2004, I really don't think there's, if I could say, one normal head, a mayor who wouldn't support this law because when we signed those concessions, we didn't once have any concessions that we didn't have 10 complaints about each of those concessions implementations because they all complained about everything. Let's be realistic! On the other hand, impossible things were happening during the implementation, as was said in the discussion not only in this first reading but perhaps now, that people were fighting both in hospitals and in cemeterys. On the other hand, I would understand that you have a problem, and the problem may be that or that you have such a concession that if you are going to break it up and solve that you did not do well, or maybe another problem that you said when you spoke about municipal societies and companies that you have in your utility so many people that now that this is a market question you will not know what to do with them. Because utility companies are on the market, they are either limited-response companies or companies and they must have the same conditions and can run the same way as now that this is on the market. And it's only up to them whether they're capable of it or not. And he can no longer expect us as we are, unfortunately, founders, to have to cover their loss because they have in some way become social societies, not communal societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104432	Replica response, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104433	Well, I'm sorry to have to tell you because you told me I didn't understand. Obviously you don't understand if you don't understand the opinion of the Association of Cities. So, not one city, not me. If you do not listen to what they wrote and the remarks made by the utility companies involved. I don't see that the problem in us who are talking this way is the problem in you that you support this thinking that one law relating to funeral activities and is defined by the Law on the Communist Economy, is derived from this law by a small, very small part that applies only to the transport of the deceased, and everything else remains in that section of the local self-government unit and the normal market that has been so far. The funeral equipment was free on the market and you could buy either a crate like this or one, or a wreath bigger or smaller, and some companies, florists, carpenters or already whoever produced it was still on the market, or let them take over everything. But the unit of local self-government, you as mayor are in charge of organizing it in your area, if you didn't do it and there were these disputes, then the problem is in you, not in us talking about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104434	Dear fellow MP Ivo Jelusic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104435	Thank you. Comrade Klaric, in your debate, by defending the position of companies and communal activities, you presented certain things that absolutely do not stand or agree with them. Here is the first round of the act of defending or not, so it is not the question here whether or not to defend or attack the position of companies owned by units of local self-government that carry out municipal activity, but whether they should not be defended or attacked, but rather the interests of citizens should be protected here. Defend what is in the interests of citizens, not what is in the interest of units of local self-government or their companies. Therefore, citizens can be threatened by private companies, but can also be threatened by utility companies if they do their job too expensive and unquality. I mean, it doesn't mean if there's something in public property that's right now great and that's good, that's the first thing. Secondly, what I absolutely disagree with is that you said, I don't know if it's intentional, or whether it's a lapus, but you said that these companies owned units of local self-government are not commercial societies, but communal. I'm sorry, but they're companies. The Company Act exists, so it is unique for all, and these are companies which, when it comes to this case, carry out municipal activities and the Company Act does not distinguish public or commercial companies. It does not exist, it determines the municipal activities, not the communal societies that will deal with them. And the Law on Community Activities also says what these are activities that are important, which are communal but does not talk about companies, which does not need to be protected by society, does not need to be protected by businesses but needs to be protected by activity. And that we understand each other, and that's what this is about. And so far as we understand each other, many have performed in a market way this activity through a concession company. And the concession is the market. He's calling the only local self-government tender for a concession and he's gonna win this one or that one. So it's the market again. Therefore, the market has been in a certain way and so far, and now it will only be regulated in a different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104436	Reply to the replica, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104437	Comrade Jelusic, you have not denied me anything, but you have confirmed everything I have said. You said they've done it before, that this is also how market activity is, right? All I said was that the contests were called and that there was order in that way. In particular, Zagreb, assistant minister, deputy minister spoke about what situations in Zagreb. So part of the business is done by a city-owned company, the rest of the business is done by private people. Because a company owned by a city that size of work can't do, right? We're talking about a registration here because they don't have companies owned by the city until they've registered certain activities. As for the organisation of the whole work of the Law on undertakement, I don't know who can defend that only one part of this activity is derived from the Law on the Communist Economy, and defines how it will be carried out, only one part of the transport of the deceased and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104438	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104439	Dear colleague Klaric, you said that nicely. First they made goods from workers and now they're also doing goods from dead people, which is too scary. You're talking about a funeral activity that's a lucrative business and it's a really lucrative business and it's all put under the influence of the free market. When you think about all the laws that are passed and at least partly local self-government, local self-government is pushed aside. More and more jurisdiction is being taken away from local self-government. Just what you were saying, local self-government was giving, calling concessions and saying there was no order, so what wasn't the order, what didn't they do, what didn't they pass such a law to introduce order? However, what is now being done? After this debate, Ilif and Petrov would have something to write, because this is how the ideas are ours, the gasoline is yours. This profitable part that you've been talking about, that's the profitable part, the profitable part that's going to be placed on the market, this other part is not going to be placed on the market because, by chance, local self-government units might be able to earn something. So if everything needs to be privatized, then why don't you privatize the garter? So let's privatize the granite, and give the privates a mixer and there. The state determines what is of public interest. Dignity, you drink towards the dead is the same as public interest and should be handled with caution. And what you've been saying, I totally agree with your debate, and I think it's acceptable because funeral activity can't be a lucrative business, it can't be. For you as a neoliberal it must be, because you are, a colleague threw me "But what should it be?""that lucrative business, that the dead should be a lucrative business.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104440	Thank you. Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104441	Well, I think on this point, the two of us understand each other perfectly and agree. When you talk about local self-government units and what they're doing, here's a banal example, someone here in Zagreb said that in Rijeka in Cambieri's medical services where people ran over the weekend children that it was above standard and refused to finance that activity. To keep it, because it's not above standard because on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays when a child gets a toothache or when something happens to him, someone has to take it somewhere and check it out and not wait for Mondays. And all units of local self-government in Primorje-goranska, which are gravitating the area, have taken over the financing of something that should be in the health ministry's care. And the Department of Health said it's above standard, we're not going to finance it, they've made a minor savings and they've charged the budget to local self-government units. I'm telling you here not only about this law, I may have taken too wide a topic, but I want to highlight the problem that appears on the ground. If we see that the cities and municipalities are the circulation of this state, that there is some kind of life in these locations, that it must get drinking water, that it must have secured public city transport, that it must have a secure place and a grave. And if this is how it's centralized, they make decisions, they cut, looking at only one small interest in a particular group of people, then we're introducing a mess into this country. And the blood flow of those units of local self-government shuts down until they die.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104442	Dear representative Nada Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104443	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Klaric, I will also join this opinion or your debate in which the main dilemma is whether the funeral activity should be of public interest or should be left to the market. And like you, as well as part of the MPs, we think that really if we think there should be a funeral activity of public interest and that units of local self-government should have much better control and the possibility of affecting that and that the activity takes place on a dignified and legal procedure or process at the funeral. Commercial companies which are the founders of local self-government units have their own resources and should not be deprived of their own resources. But also as founders, they could co-finance these societies and thus guarantee the citizens that they will always have what I repeat with dignity and legal procedure at the funeral. The private has been imposed in this law and there has been a commitment, both personnel and vehicles, and everything else. Whether it will collect the funeral costs itself and whether that cost will go exclusively to the funeral home, it is certainly expected that and that will certainly be one of the reasons why we go to this market, way of doing this job. The units of local self-government and companies are subject to very frequent inspection controls and so should and should be, and we also expect that everyone else doing this activity will find themselves equally in this position.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104444	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104445	Here is counterpart Murganić, just as you said the general public interest, it is the basis and essence of the existence of units of local self-government to protect and ensure their public interest to their citizens living in the area. The way in which municipal undertakings or companies owned units of local self-government are financed directly from the budget and the budget must provide for those funds for a specific activity. The communal companies operating the cemetery must also lead the grave eyewitnesses and edit the cemetery, must charge grave fees, prepare, sell if units of local self-government leave them to do the part from that base... If the unit of local self-government does so, then the same means must be spent on what they are selected for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So from the sale of graves, same as the Law on the municipal economy, municipal contributions and communal compensation, the means of municipal contribution, construction, municipal compensation, maintenance. In this case, the cemetery is the same thing. This law derivates a basic law that regulates these things. I am personally interested in your personal opinion of what you are proposing and what we bring to the Minister Mrak-Taritash. I think she has a different opinion on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104446	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Dunja Spoljar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104447	Thank you very much, dear colleague Klaric, I would just like to warn you of a few thesis from your debate, but also from all the previous discussions that are being held here and that are being highlighted, which is that undertakers, i.e. undertakers of funeral transport services in this case are present concessionaries, are in fact privileged to an unlimited market in the entry business. And I would especially like to emphasise that part of your debate where you said that private carriers and those owned by local self-government or utility companies cannot provide equal quality service or that the service provided by the utility company is necessarily higher. I would like to warn that citizens and citizens of Croatia do not necessarily die and do not necessarily bury everyone in large cities and units of local self-government who have established municipal companies, that this law applies to others, which are private funeral carriers who have done this job for years which has not been in all cases a lucrative business that has done fair, hard work with dignity and piety that we all talk about today and will continue to do so after this law and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104448	Replica response, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104449	I'm sorry if you guys figured it out. I haven't tried to disrespect these private entrepreneurs in one word. However, these are valuable and honest people who have invested in a certain kind of activity, have employees and who want to carry out this activity and with the basis of this job make revenue and it stands and should be allowed to do so. But it still needs to be made possible from exactly what we keep pointing out, out of this general public interest to allow someone to be a regulator there, and these are units of local self-government, municipalities and cities. Now they're under the Law on the Communist Economy. In this respect, there will be no, except for the part about all the other jobs, and that's what I'm talking about, all the other jobs that remain for these utility companies. All they lose is the transfer of the deceased. And I'm saying, if we're going to pass a mortuary activity law, then we bring a mortuary activity law that will regulate everything, not just this part that applies to what kind of vehicle it must have, what school equipment it must have, how many parking spaces it has and where it must have a freezer or.... Then let's pass a law that will make the Law on the Communist Economy a whole new law that will regulate everything in the matter of funerals because this is not the Law on funeral activities, this is the Law on the Transport of the Dead. That's all he regulates, that's what I'm talking about. And whether a larger service is necessary or not, we can't say it and it's not bigger or bigger, but the kind of decision that the representative body of the local self-government unit makes in accordance with the financial opportunities and budget it has and with the decisions of the city council who will drive in their area, and these are privates again. And there are no privates here in any way derogated, thrown out, they and now here in Zagreb and in many cities are, in all. But control of all these affairs is in the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104450	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivica Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104451	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague, first of all I'm replicating you, you're saying one banal law here. It is this law that tries to resolve that nothing banal happens in a very sad and significant event in the lives of all families when they have deceased ones. Well, it's not good if you take such words as a concubine. What you're talking about, this law doesn't stop municipal societies from going out on the market for their services, and the law doesn't interfere at any time with the Law on the Communist Economy, where exactly from the pitetical to the deceased, the bill promoter left himself to guard the deceased, the funeral ceremony itself, and this second all in Article 8, is a precise organization of music and religious rituals, washing the deceased, dressing, among other things, and transportation. But this law doesn't defend itself to municipal society at any time, because I think it's a more dangerous monopoly than freedom of service. Any family who has a deceased can decide who will take his ride, it does not have to be a municipal society if the service is cheaper somewhere. That's not the dead market, it's the service market. And I don't think I can change your position on this whole thing, but I don't think you've studied this bill well, the funeral activity, and you haven't studied the part about the municipal economy in particular. That part doesn't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104452	Replica response, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104453	Hey, buddy, listen to what you said. You said I said banal law, and it's such an important law because it's trying to solve the funeral problem. Sir, my colleague, the problem of the funeral is solved, prescribed by the Law on the Communist Economy, defined there in the article which is, therefore, the problem has already been solved by the existing law. What I'm saying is that this law is practically unnecessary, you're now confirming it if you listen to your discussion, so funeral activity as a municipal activity is prescribed by the Law on the Community Economy, and there's only one word they're changing now and they're turning that word into a whole new law. Is that banal or not banal? Then let's pass a new law, throw it completely out of this part of the communal activity that's about what we're talking about all the time and pass a law that will prescribe all of this in one law. We're talking about this law being called the Law on the Transport of the Dead, but the deceased can't be what he's going through, it can't be the hard market goods again. Someone over this job has to perform the function of regulators.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104454	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Nadica Jelash has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104455	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Klaric, you asked in your debate why only the transport of the deceased was so isolated from all other jobs related to the funeral of the deceased. So here's what we're really trying to do through these replicas is give you an answer to your question, so it's because it's the only activity that's ever been carried out in two ways, so either the local self-government units have given that activity to the public companies that were founded or they're giving concessions to privates. So the fact is that this segment has so far been very differently solved throughout Croatia, we had different treatment of local self-government units because it was actually not legally regulated. The law mentioned it, but it was not exactly precise how and who was doing it and it was certainly a problem. The transport of the deceased is now regulated, so it is unified by the placing on the market of transport operations where, of course, utility companies can continue to participate in the market, so they can continue to deal with the transport of the deceased, but the act of burying the deceased as that solemn act of forgiveness of the family from their person remains defined as the municipal activity and is in charge of the communal companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104456	Replica response, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104457	Dear colleagues Jelash, I understand that you are trying to convince me all the time that it is regulated in a different way and should be different, because all our cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia are different by many things, by budgets, by the number of cemeteries in their territory, by the mileage of their area and in their jurisdiction should remain organised what should be the public need of their citizens. If we lock them all up in some frames, then what is the purpose of existence, then let the government lead everything. But there must be a possibility that a local self-government unit will establish a municipal enterprise if it believes it is so much better in their territory, there must be a possibility if it does not want a municipal enterprise to finance it, if it cannot maintain a cemetery by a concessionary, but there has to be order. Someone's got to have a hat on it. And privates, by the way, let them drive. But they have once again the possibility prescribed by the Law on the Communist Economy. Competitions, contracts, when contracts are concluded, have a monopoly again to do the job in the area of that unit of local self-government. Why is it that the different ways of allowing local self-government units to make decisions would not be good? In my view, it is precisely the difference between allowing me to see what is best for its citizens and to make a decision with its City Council, with its employees in the city, the municipal administration. If we put everything in this frame, then we didn't do anything. We are still diversified and we are diversified by new law. We can't regulate it with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104458	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104459	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague and colleagues before me and your colleagues who've replicated things that I've been meaning to say, but whatever I'd like to underline, I'd like to highlight a few things and say that the rest of it is a repeat mother of knowledge, so maybe it's not a burning thing to do again. So when you're talking about funding companies that are involved in the maintenance of cemeteries, you're also telling the undertakers that they're being financed by local self-government units. But it's only partially true. Local self-government units finance them in the area where they operate communal activities, and the municipal activity is the maintenance of cemeterys. Services, means selling flowers, coffins, etc. They're not utility services and they're already on the market. So, competition already exists to these utility companies that deal with, therefore, funeral services owned by local self-government units. And this law only regulates and regulations in detail, so that is exactly how other companies that are not owned by units of local self-government, therefore which are not publically able to deal with this activity. And also, so all these companies as far as I know are companies. So, as a colleague said, a utility company or a utility company as a form of being on the market does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104460	Replica response, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104461	You're trying hard to defend indefensible. What were we talking about earlier? It is, that the sale of these funeral equipment is free on the market, it is. Is the Law on the Communist Economy limited to anything? No, I don't. It's working. That part of the work that runs the municipal society of keeping the cemetery, building, basket, it all stands. But the transport of the deceased on the market is already now, but it is regulated by a law that must be regulated by the Law on the Communist Economy. I'm saying again, the local self-government unit has to decide what kind of model it is not for us to prescribe it. I'm talking again about that damn centralization of everything and everything, and then the trouble down in the field as much as you want with which no one will ever raise a hand again. It can't be. I repeat again, there can be no dead market goods. Some work on water supply, public urban transport, funeral activities must be in the sphere of public interest for people and organisations because these jobs through some representative body and some crazy mayor who wants to do something or the municipal chief in his field are better, better quality for his people. If we put it all in a box like this, then I don't know where it's taking us? This is not a banal question, but this is a matter that has been resolved, but I repeat it again by the Law on the Communist Economy. Functions on the ground and privates are now on the market in numerous cities and municipalities, talk to many of them from Zagreb who perform this activity in the city of Zagreb with companies owned by the city. Talk to the people in the field yourself, and you'll know what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104462	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104463	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Klaric, it's only two things in the law, and that's the question of transporting the deceased and concessions. Secondly, everything is not touching, and now what you said in your discussion, and I am going to make it clear that I said that the companies that were founded by the local self-government units serve to imprison political equalists. Yeah, here's an example, just for a little while, I was able to get you a piece of the data. The Agency for Waste Management Dubrovnik 99% is funded by the funds of the local self-government unit. Eco Star Sisak 100%, Eco System Vinkovci 100% Eco-Zadar 100%, management of Zagreb County waste 98%. Now I'm asking myself, were the agencies supposed to be set up separately? Whether they could work as part of utility companies, be cheaper, rational, etc.? No, it's 250 million kuna paid from taxpayers' funds from the local self-government unit. Why? To set up some kind of agencies that are unnecessary. Why? To hire some political personnel there. Well, that's the question when we talk about rationalization, when we talk about something that the citizens of this country pay for. And clearly, even if we don't remove this part from the municipal activity, transport, it's blackmailing utility companies when it comes to charging prices. And that's why we ask it to be transparent, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104464	Replica response, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104465	I fully agree with you when it comes to these agencies, I must say, no one is offended. I'm absolutely right because I think that most of them are completely unnecessary. But here we're not talking about an agency of one, or a waste management or, here we're talking about municipal affairs, the Law of the Communist Economy and the undertaker's activities. We're talking about that law here. I've been saying all this time that I think all this is already regulated by one law. And I think it's crazy to make one whole law for only one percent, and that's a minor, whole range of activities. And I don't see why, and now we've already got the doubles because we have a new law, and we haven't even seen the amendments to the Law on the Communist Economy yet. That's why I said that I was interested in the opinion of Minister Mrak-Taritash because the Law on the Communist Economy says that the transport of the deceased is also a part of the Law on the Communist Economy. And now we come into a situation where we know that the transport of the deceased in the area of Babina Greda will drive, perform whoever remembers, or whoever first, his girlfriend. And I guess that's the essence of this law, but unfortunately that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104466	Thank you very much. The last replica, the honourable representative, is your last replica, of course, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104467	Thank you very much. My colleague Klaric and most of the things you've been saying, I absolutely agree because of the work that we're doing, of course, we know the problem. You said that this law draws a small part of the activity from the municipal economy, you mentioned both municipal companies and what is happening on the ground. Well, we've witnessed three years of intensely trying to break up everything that works in local self-government. So this is just another segment. Croatia is famous for not knowing how to enforce laws even when in one law everything is prescribed for the same thing. And now we're going to have really in two laws prescribed one activity. And of course we won't be able to do it, and normally it'll be a mess. And maybe that's the point. I find it funny in this part when I look at the legislator of the law that the Ministry of crafts, small and medium entrepreneurship, appears as the legislator of this law, it's really funny to me. Perhaps Mr. Maras, as the minister who plays the master of life to craftsmen, sees them dying and now wants to become the master of death in Croatia, might be his goal. I don't see any reason. If some things were to be settled, if there were to be some small things that you were talking about, it could really have been solved by a small change of existing law rather than by transferring some of the activities to another ministry which, in the end, I don't know what kind of name is in this country because we have twice as many countries as ten times as we are, and ten times as much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104468	Replica response, respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104469	In the elections, they and we and everyone have been repeating the concept of decentralisation for years. And we're talking about local self-government units, regional self-government, and we're talking about the state. Someone boasted about the state budget being filled above expectations. Yeah, it fills up beyond expectations. And you know what? The money that was taken away from the local self-government units. So, we spilled it from hollow to empty. What's the consequence? As a result, investments in local self-government units have stopped because they do not have the means to move. We're talking European funds are going to run us. They will, at some point they'll run some kind of construction cycle. What will eventually happen when the local self-government unit withdraws funds from European funds and builds a sewer system? This system needs to be maintained, this system needs to be further financed. With what? If by these laws we took away their incomes from local self-government units. This is where the local sheriff's fam got thrown, the media got it all worked up, there were a couple of cases, and then all the wrong cities, municipalities and countys were on the ground. And basically this is the foundation and from this foundation is moving both demographics and jobs and the preconditions for the development of the economy and what this is called the Ministry separated from the Ministry of Economy, which I think is insane but is the subject of some kind of political trade on the same model as the Parliament was convicted, the same. What's the difference? He negotiated with this to raise his hand, this one was given by the ministry to support him in power for four years. Am I wrong? But that's the way it is. If we destroy the units of local self-government, if we shut down their flow of funds, if we regulate everything by these laws, then there's no need for us to exist. But then it's a question of what and how people will live in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104470	Thank you very much. The word is made by a representative of the motionary, the esteemed Deputy Minister Drazen Pross.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104471	Thank you very much, well-respected Parliamentarians and Parliamentarians, thank you very much for these discussions. Let me just take a brief look at this, Mr. Honorable Representative Klaric you said that HDZ therefore voted in 2004 in a law that introduced order, I think the introduction of order by the HDZ, knew how this order was introduced and that it was a major mess. In 2004, through the Law on the Communist Economy, you actually did not arrange the funeral activity, but only mentioned a little bit, and we can say that this is the fictional part of this Law on the municipal economy by which only municipal companies can lead the deceased to the cemetery. You also say that this law is not good, so is competitiveness one less price, better service, better provision, better quality service provision, more professional service provision, is that bad? You said what one spoils then 100 can't fix, what you've ruined will take a lot, a lot of time to fix things, and that's what we do, that's what we do with this law, so we introduce real order, we introduce expertise, we introduce security, we introduce a better regulation of the market. And let me just say it one more time because it seems to me through these discussions there are some dilemmas. Therefore, there is no ban on carrying out funeral activities, transport activities by units of local self-government. And maybe one more thing, here you can see that it's not... Neither you nor your HDZ, let's say your Mr. Turko, who is president of the Association of Cities, actually advocates the story that the part of the work being done at the cemetery to be privatized, to enter the part of entrepreneurship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And just to add here, Mr. Honorable Representative Horg, it's really almost inappropriate to talk about someone being a master of life or death, of entrepreneurs or of this work. This is actually about one really very serious business that we are accessing very seriously here, professionally proposing this law that passes, I repeat once again, one better regulation of the market in one important and important segment of entrepreneurial activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104472	Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104473	Mr. Pross, I really can't believe I heard this from you, respecting you as a man with whom you can communicate in a normal way. Literally here since I've been in the House, when I haven't heard any argument about anything your minister stands for, and then you hear exactly these words of HDZ and what have you done with the introduction of order? That HDZ introduced order by the Law on the Communist Economy, then the minister seemed to me to be Marina Matulović Dropulić when this was regulated in this way and since then the order was introduced in the work as well as in the entire Law on the Communist Economy. And numerous projects were made under it, it was done and order was introduced. And that law on the direct election of mayors, the chief was fine, and then by introducing riots, you introduced a law that now results, we warned, with extraordinary elections only in this short period of time, in 14 units of local self-government, 17. Because it's the introduction of order? And we see what's our turn on the ground, how many investments, how many units of local self-government are on the ground, cities, municipalities lost funds in their budgets? The mountain cotter, I mention again, mentioning your Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, which was done by him when we brought it in a year ago. The strategic investment law that's been done? By the laws passed by HDZ, no matter what you say about it when you talk about something and why you have no arguments, you accuse several individuals of the whole party.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104474	Davor's Mlakar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104475	Thank you very much. Your Honorary Deputy Minister, you are here in a position to defend the law with professional arguments and it would be good to stick to it without moving into a controversyal, political debate. Because of your findings on who was instituting order, and I will tell you that I am in possession of the document, I have no regrets here today, but I can hand it to you, where you are introducing order in front of your ministry certified by the public notary by a contract between your ministry and the Ministry of Finance you are handing over a part of the business contrary to the Part-Corruption Act to another ministry, specifically the Ministry of Finance, because you were not able to do that part of the business that otherwise the law has put into your jurisdiction. So when you're giving your grades by introducing order then think carefully about what and how your ministry is doing from the announcements of its establishment to today, and don't give your grades here that have nothing to do with this subject today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104476	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104477	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll get that answer from you now, Mr. Deputy, which I asked you on that first line on the opening explanation why the Community Economy Act is not parallel in this procedure and it doesn't change because it's tied to each other, you didn't answer me. You were talking about editing funeral activities, and I'm asking myself a real question, and so are you, so is this ministry in which the municipal economy is so incompetent that it failed to bring order into the mortuary activity, and then it was taken over by the Ministry of crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises? Or maybe our dead are becoming a slave? Is that an emergency? I ask the question why didn't this ministry as a government, like that resolute ministry, do it in part of that law and fix that law? But we share one activity in two ministries, in two laws. I repeat, we know that we do not work in Croatia, we do not enforce laws, so when it is clear, we do not implement it. Now we'll have two laws for the same activity, in two ministries. It's a well-known thing that you don't talk God's people to each other in government, that the ministers don't communicate with each other. So how are you going to work? What's that gonna look like in the field? That's the point of the story. We're still missing the Minister's ad, dear undertakers, please report to Minister Maras, and he's eager to see you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104478	And Josip Boric, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104479	Thank you very much. Well, dear Mr. Pross, I think that you and your debate have all been spilled here today because simply this last part of you has not been quite at some level because you often talk about some sort of introduction order and order assumes that institutions are then respected. It means that we have order in local self-government, in county, in state institutions. But now you tell me, when you already know everything, what institutions today are challenging respect for citizens when you have introduced so much order? Does anyone believe in the IRS today? Does anyone believe in any ministry or government today? Does anyone believe in the DORH today, Jump and PUNK and all the other institutions that need to deal with people's problems? Is that the order? You have, under the story of the introduction of order, created a mess and you do not want to admit it and citizens feel it daily and this law is one of those exactly where, after application, it will be understood that there has been a mess. And we're not surprised by the fact that it comes from the ministry in which Mr. Reverend Maras sits. He shares some money, says 5 billion and greets people nicely, daily from all radio stations as if he shares some kind of property. But you say this isn't a question of life or death, so we can apply the new one or the other. So far, the dead have been in God's hands, and apparently, by applying this law, they are in Mr. Maras' hands, so we can say that from today on, they are. from the passing of this law in the hands of God and in the hands of Maras. And where it will end or where they will end will show time. Well, given the experience, I don't think he's doing well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104480	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Marijan Skvaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104481	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the final proposal of the Law on the funeral activity of the Croatian People's Party club will absolutely support it. Supporting that law is based on a few things. First of all, as a liberal civil party, we support the principle of freedom to provide services, the principle of competition and the principle of non-discrimination. This guarantees equal legal position for entrepreneurs and prohibits the establishment of a monopolitical position on the market. At the same time I can point out that I support this law and in a way that as a leader of a local unit we can really say that from... When that law was passed, there was a lot of ambiguity, a lot of confusion in this activity itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to compare, when you make a decision on the award of a concession, at a time when you have more people in a particular area, or companies engaged in that activity, then you find it difficult to determine how and how you define the terms of the concession and that everyone is satisfied because only one of them can possibly get a concession from them and the other, even though they live in that area they can't get a concession. At the same time, it was also that because of the inattractivity of the position or the rent of the position or the space that both you and several tenders did not report to the concession or you could not carry out that part of the legal procedure that was not defined. Then what did you have to do in the end? In fact, if you bring in a concession, then only the implementation of that concession is very complicated. Why? Because you had constant complaints, not only from concessionaires but also from others who had continued to provide their services in this area. Services, first of all, transporting the deceased. The owner of the concession is the fact that someone who pays the concession, meaning on the basis of certain revenues that should be realised by its activity, that income is reduced because someone else has entered that market space instead. And someone who does that then complains to you the way that, rightly so, because we had an indication from both the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry that you can't prevent the work of certain market activities, freedom of the market. And then, of course, the concessionary stops paying you the concession, you break up the concession, and you start coming back in some way in the circle and in that part and public commitment, providing services, first of all our citizens was absolutely questioned as such and at the same time just ask the officers and the mayors and mayors who are constantly dealing with such problems as solving the problem how effective and effective they are. At the same time, the Law on municipal activities also offers you the possibility that you can transfer this type of activity to a municipal company if you are its owner in the majority part or in the minority part. And most of the cities and municipalities have used the part in a way that they have passed on this decision to the activities of the utility companies. And here we also see if we have had the opportunity to give such goods in a way that on the one hand we have previously failed to meet the possibility of the concession as such. At the same time, responsibility was given to municipal companies. But we had a third situation, and this is the work in the gray zone in a way that, then and without concession, many who were engaged in funeral activities normally spent that part of the activities throughout the area not only of the municipality or of the city but of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what we finally want to introduce with this law, that all this activity to the part of which it deals with very municipal enterprises, which is the business of maintaining cemetery and burial, is done in this way because it can only be done by one, maximum of two people, and everything else has to be on market principles. And now there's finally order. I think that law should be passed as soon as possible so that we know exactly what we're on. Now, if there's someone in that section or damaged, whether they're being denied in some way, I don't think so, because the market will only contribute to its regulation by means of regulation in a way that those services that our citizens need are reduced to the right level, and local self-government units are absolutely able to control that part of the level. If something is not good, not just a citizen, and above all, it is also of interest that through inspection services and relevant chambers we can apply for a certain discrepancy to provide services that concern certain persons in the trap of the certificate or the law. That's absolutely possible. That's what you do today. You have a lot of applications in a way where someone has not done their part of the job or, in addition to the law, that they have been reported to the competent authorities and that is also the best regulation for me. As for utility companies, as we've said many times, but I guess someone doesn't want to understand for some particular reasons that utility companies were a shareholder society, d.o.o. the same on market principles and they can continue to deal with these activities. Yeah, but of course there might be a little problem there because it happened that, I think I know from experience, that certain things a privateer does now with twice as many people at twice the cost, and in utility companies, it does a lot more people. So they're not market-oriented, and they're not defined in any way to be rational. Why? Because this rationality may at some point go to the level of the owners’ costs, which are cities and municipalities and they in solidarity in that part could cover certain dubiosis or losses created by the municipal enterprise. And it's an opportunity to... municipal companies, and at the same time we know that... the company when we see the report are in great losses, irrational, relative to the same provision of services that are on market principles, that we also narrow it down to those frameworks as we should. Of course, once again, we absolutely agree that this is a communal activity that the law regulates and that this activity must be on the market. And yes, we have heard concrete indicators that right now we have utility companies that are carrying out this activity and that's 52%, and there are concessions in 48%. And now we have the duality of each other. And the size of the market is at the level of 50,000 funerals a year and the value is 500 million kuna. In my view, I see no loss of units of local self-government, especially not from concessions that should be incomed because when we add those concessions were minimal, and especially where in large cities there is a struggle for that part of income, and in smaller cities and municipalities believe me neither there is interest and these very benefits are so minimal that there is no damage to the units of local self-government. And what is well defined by me is finally this law, which is that it is precisely defined what is a funeral activity so let each activity that is inside be uniquely defined outside the market, which and how we need to define, what undertakers need to do specifically, how this activity is carried out, how they work and how they should be organised and organised. I mean there's only defined which expert cooker must be, which equipment must be so that there's no possibility at all of certain insinuations that are... in the first reading or were now presented how someone will do their part of the job. And what is important is that the same is even defined as not having to and having a liability insurance contract covered by the general responsibility and responsibility of that activity, which says that if something does not work out, it should be possible to compensate for bad business, i.e. failure and those activities that are necessary for our citizens. In any case, I would mention one more piece in particular, which is Article 9. We're also looking at here repeatedly mentioned decentralisation, which is the role of the unit of local or regional self-government, so I'm surprised. I say about that part personally and the officers not only in my city but also everywhere they can't wait to get rid of it that they don't have to do that part. This decentralisation or centralisation absolutely makes no sense, but in one part of the work's responsibility should be put in place. In particular, Article 9 states that the direct takeover and transport of the deceased or postmortem remains from the death site to the competent pathology or judicial medicine referred to in Article 8 for which it is not possible to determine the cause of death without an autopsy, the undertaker shall carry out the basis of a contract on... the transport operations of the deceased concluded with the unit of local self-government. There's a problem in that part because making a deal with a local self-government unit is problematic. Most of these are deaths, it's possible to determine death without an autopsy at the level that you might happen to find a dead body in one of your areas that was the case. The competent authority then has to transfer this body to a county hospital that has pathology. And now there's a problem with the intelligence of a local self-government unit that has to pay or take care of it. He is neither a citizen nor can be controlled in his territory. It's going somewhere else, and I think that instead of the local self-government unit, it should be regional self-government, that it's a county... The reason. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the moment following this article, 575 contracts should be implemented on... jobs, and at this point, however, if this county could only carry out 20 contracts for some major cities, it is possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But where are the smaller cities again, working with it, looking for someone who will allow you to do what I said at the beginning. Somewhere you find it very difficult to even find a carrier for your needs, let alone these specific things that are. I think it should go to the level of transfer of management. We're not going to give the amendment as a club, but I think maybe in that part of the ministry we should take care of, that maybe here's such a, that kind of correction of article 9 of the device I'm saying just for practical and pragmatic reasons in that part. Here is once again the HNS club will support the law and have a strong belief that this law will bring much more order to the funeral activity than it has ever been before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104482	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104483	Thank you very much. Comrade Skvarić, here you are talking about, you said somewhere in the middle of your speech about 500 million, about 550 million kunas that are in play. But we all forget, in fact, what it's actually a funeral and how much it's really costing and that it's actually like there's an insurance industry, the banking industry is hard to say in this case and one to say the mortuary industry. And I'd say it's about 5 billion kuna. Namely, I'll list you at least 12 funeral-related occupations, so the funeral of the deceased and all that comes next. So these are carpenters, I'm talking about crates, florists, waxers, musicians coming to funerals, etc. So the priests of any confiscation of any kind, barristers of lipstick, cless, so the builders of the tomb, the coroners, lawyers in the event of a violent death, lawyers, etc. And what you said, so get a concession. You know for yourself, and I know many of the mayors of the municipalities in my county, as well as many undertakers who asked me to intervene with the mayor of the municipality as a mediator so that I would take them to the concession to carry out funeral activities in the area of some of the municipalities. Why they did it and why they asked me to be a bridge between them, so the undertaker and the mayor of the community know it best. But it is absolutely certain that in the event of the adoption of this law, the market will regulate and no connection will be required with the head of the municipality in order to obtain a concession for the provision of mortuary services on the ground. So the one that's on the market to say better quality The cheaper they'll have... [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104484	Marijan Škurić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104485	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yes, dear colleague, we absolutely agree on that part. You said, however, that it is a large asset and money that revolves around this service activity, but at the level of Croatia it is one smaller segment. But let's also make this segment that we do well and they wanted to take advantage of, use it precisely in this competition to be competitive and to provide services to our citizens, and then I think we've made an absolute contribution to that part, especially what you've mentioned. Yeah, well, to the mayors, there's no need for us to take more of our duties or our time around that part. Let's settle the market, they're the best coordinator for that service provision, and then trust me to the mayors, the mayors, and it still takes a lot more time, willful for many things we need to do for the benefit of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104486	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104487	Comrade Skurić, the people who listen to this debate are probably convinced that in this House we do not know about the organization of the dead, the burial of the dead cannot be organised without any policy in it. It took five years for this debate on the same proposal for my law to come up with a solution that was offered back then. You opened it and actually in your debate you said one important sentence. Whether carrying out these activities so far by its own companies to municipalities and cities was a gain or a burden in budgetary terms. In many cases, municipalities and cities had to isolate and cover the losses of their utility companies from the budget. And now we're bringing it into connection with centralised or decentralisation. The head of the municipality has nothing else to do but worry about who will drive dead people in his community. So it's not about centralisation, and the monopoly that concessions brought forward was not only about municipal companies of municipalities and cities, but about very private people. And they kept unreally high prices. And now, today's price I called and checked. Transport of the deceased 9 kn per km, sales and equipment 1600, two and a half thousand lowest price of a coffin belonging to the equipment. It's the subject of this debate. And what citizens expect is a lower price we won't be able to influence is 3600 kuna graves and the burial site itself is 2100. So, when you see this of 7800 costs in Croatia, it's very expensive to die, it's very expensive because these are rudely high prices. When we talk about the monopoly of municipalities and cities remains a monopoly, The burial site and the cost of the burial. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104488	Marijan Škurić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104489	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, we absolutely agree on that, you've well analyzed the whole sequence of activities and problems at your level. When we talk about utility companies, it's always a question of whether it's a gain or a burden. Communal companies always have more activity than cleaning snow on green surfaces, here's the funeral activity. Now we are excluded from water supply and sewerage and most often within these activities when you are in the assembly you see each individual department, the sector that works is always from the one that makes a certain profit being poured into the departments, or into the sectors that have losses. In this part we have always even gone to the level to be a social component because in a congregation that we co-owned cities and municipalities we said, let's do the needs of our citizens to make certain costs that they've said to them you're quite high, that we can help them in that part in some way. In my view, it's not good because the sociale is not done through such a law or especially through utility companies, but in a way that it has to be on the market and it has to realistically show its costs and, of course, make a profit that we all want. And the social and certain costs are covered by other contexts, other programmes within the cities and municipalities themselves. So if some person, as there is a case, has no money for it we absolutely in that... What you also said about high prices, even this law might not make so much order if it was a monopoly that carriers... will not agree as cartels on some prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, that's possible. But then again, we are the correct factor that over again and through the chambers and through the competent inspection services, we can influence it and we can correct it. And we're not talking about the grave site because yet the cemetery is a pure market work concerning burial and maintenance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104490	Thank you, time. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104491	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Yeah, this certainly isn't a banal question and this isn't a marginal question, and it's not one lapidarian question either. This is extraordinary, despite the fact that this law bears the title of the Law on Funeral Activity, so this is an extremely life-threatening issue. It was hard to think in the morning that this debate would take such an interest in the MPs. Is it because we're all mortal, so one day we have to deal with it, is it because of the cost of the funeral or the funeral? Cemeteries speak from 6 to 6,5 thousand kuna, now Mr. Lesar has calculated 1000 euros, just before Mr. Grubisic and thousands of euros. Either in one word here today we either opt for the social or we opt for market liberalisation. I think it's legitimately clear both. A legitimate attitude is, say, a union, but it's also legitimate for private undertakers. I have already said and quoted that Slovenia has been in the EU for 10 years and has not yet opened this market but rather considers it a market or rather a public interest activity. Hungary has liberalised the market, and after a complete chaos that has occurred to it, it must return to the old one. In my judgment, this activity must be, in some ways, under quotes of "primary public interest" and as such must remain. I don't have to be right, but what you need to protect at all times is the dignity of the family in this case. Yes, I also agree with those who just said that if something in this country works then in the segment of local self-government, this particular segment works. Unfortunately, throughout a number of municipalities, towns where we are left without people, means depopularised Croatia, the funeral activity works. We have to admit that to ourselves. And then you too many ask yourself what tomorrow? Will this liberalisation follow, for example, the privatisation of utility companies? Of what? For example, water, sewage or sewerage, etc. The union's position is clear on the side of local self-government, the attitude of the undertaker is liberalisation. What everyone said about dying today isn't cheap anymore, so I almost dare say it simply. And to read just one letter that I received from the trade unions of Istria and Kvarner, where it is literally said and where they demand that the law be withdrawn immediately from the procedure because the consequences that will result from the adoption of this law will be inconceivable by them, and there is really no objective reason why the law should be passed. So they ask themselves, in the Union of Istria and Kvarner, is the Minister of entrepreneurship and crafts aware of what is the opening-up of the market for this activity, whether it is being deceived or consciously working for the benefit of stakeholders who are trying to take over the activities of municipal companies and whether, after this activity, they are in turn and other activities that are of public interest such as public transport, waste and so forth? Namely, the legislator refers to the 2006 directive. The European Communities then say the fact is that this provision does not oblige EU members to have municipal activities and funeral, cemetery, transport, or to be placed on the market, or is left at the will of each individual country to regulate this area on its own. Therefore, even Slovenia, which has been in the EU for 10 years, has not opened the market for this activity, but considers it an activity of public interest. Just look at what happened in Hungary, etc. The opinion of the union is that the funeral activity is of public interest to citizens and must remain so. The opening of the market, especially in the part of the transfer of the deceased from death to the cemetery or crematorium, they say it will lead to hunting for the deceased, unfair competition, and ultimately to an increase in service prices. And so far, entrepreneurs have been able to sell funeral equipment, organize burials, print obituaries, arrange rituals, and based on concessions issued by local self-government units, they could also take over, transport the deceased from death to the morgue. The proceeds bear the takeover and transport of the deceased from the place of death to the cemetery, everything else they say in the side. However, they say they are concerned about the government's and ministry's arguments about the adoption of this law, saying it is here that the quality of services will rise, the price of services will drop, that it will further employ workers, and they are afraid that it will be the exact opposite. And now that I'm not reading everything, they're also asking whether there's going to be additional employment or if there's going to be job layoffs because the number of employees now due to the opening of the market for almost all jobs will have to be reduced significantly. It primarily refers to undertakers, workers preparing and dressing the deceased, drivers and other accompanying staff, etc. etc. That's this union attitude I got this morning. On the other hand, when I look at the way, we see that this undertaker's approach is firmly supported by this proposed law, it should be absolutely fair and emphasized, because it is believed that all entrepreneurs, clearly craftsmen who meet the conditions for this activity, will be able to do so in the future. The new law says that order is being introduced into the mortuary profession, that concessions are lifted, and the content, manner, conditions for carrying out the mortuary activity, rights and obligations of the undertakers, professional training, etc. They are called for by the EU Directive, etc. Then, among other things, the president of private undertakers here in Zagreb on the day they staged a protest in Mirojo in front of the crematorium says that he was still in ancient 2004, so the HDZ was in power with its coalition partners for them, vehemently discriminating the law against private entrepreneurs in charge of funerals. It can also be said that he is referring to the families of the dead. They've imposed a monopoly on citizens and he says it's expensive. The union says these changes will be incomparable more expensive. They invented a law by which only municipal companies could lead the deceased to a cemetery, and by that law they increased the price of services and protected the interest of the state or state register. Instead of competition, the state introduced a monopoly. Cemeteries, once again, another title, satisfied with market liberalisation, abolish concessions, a monopoly of utility companies. They say the funeral activity so far has been defined as a communal activity of the Law on the Communist Economy and autonomy over the award of concessions has been determined by local self-government units. I personally feel the same way that local self-government units are that job, if they've done anything, that job has worked extremely well, at least that's what I think, I don't have to be right. They believe that by abolishing the monopoly, there is a liberalisation of the market or lower prices, I said others believe that prices will certainly be higher. Here, among other things, 1.3, if I'm not mistaken in 2014 they said they organized performance here, buried the undertaker and said that municipal waste is not the same category as the deceased. However, I will also add that the deceased is in no way a slave. They say they believe that municipal waste cannot be in the same category as the deceased, we have been rulingly warning of this for many years because we consider it degutant that the transport of the deceased is regulated through the Communist Law, etc. etc. All in all, one interesting law, and only time will show whether the prices of the burial will be higher or less. But while the world and eternity are at least there, we will all be even, no one on this issue will be discriminated against or privileged when it comes to leaving this world.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104492	Nikola Vuljanic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104493	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Cain, you said it was legitimate both, of course it was not at all, it's not about legitimacy. I'm afraid I haven't heard your point of view as to whether you think that private interest should be given in this case or not? My view is that it's primarily a public interest, and that one step at a time everything in this country is pushed towards a private pocket. The reason is to make money and make it private from one another. The cost and where the money is to be invested is social, we all agree, no one thinks that they would now ask a private to do a job where they would lose money. But as soon as there's profit and then the state of local or central has nothing to do with it, then I have to break the monopolies, open a game and make a private profit. So, the cost in common, we'll pay for it all, and profit a private, and my God how different it can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104494	Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104495	Well, my position, I don't know how many times I've said it in replicas before, and I think in my debate that this activity must be of primary public interest. Normally, profit can't even be controversial. Why wouldn't the private have any interest? However, in this country where it's all almost collapsed, few who today can even do business with profits. I also quoted the union's position when it cited an example from Slovenia that has been in the European Union for 10 years and has not yet opened this market and where it is still believed that this mortuary activity must be of primary, public interest. They pointed out or apostrophe to the example of Hungary that liberalized that market so that today again, I don't know what it's like, but I have no reason to doubt these advances have gone back to the way it was. Maybe the unions are also thinking about their members, among other things, in those associations of funeral service providers. And it's absolutely legitimate as a privateer must think about his material interest. However, a whole series of activities related to the mortuary activity and so far has been privatised and I don't see anyone there, and I don't see that the existing Law on municipal activity in that segment has created any particular, special problems to local self-government, any of those who have happened to have to use these services.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104496	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104497	Comrade Cain, at the beginning of your presentation, you expressed wonder, you did not expect this kind of life debate to cause this topic. The fact is, this is a very life debate because it concerns every citizen's life. And what's crucial, there's already been mentioned a hundred times, it's a business of general public interest for all citizens, local self-government units and there's no market. That's one thing. When the European Union is mentioned and an example from the European Union, you mentioned ecologicalism, go to Brussels, most of you were, and walk through the old town and centre of Brussels, especially for days of the weekend you will see piles of garbage in transparent white plastic bags on the halls and those lying around on those charts and sleeping under... This is something in Croatia, not in Rijeka, not in Zagreb, not in Split, not in any of our cities, and we compare ourselves with them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The mass of things we can speak and apply to us but what is already set up, which works, which also allows private entrepreneurs and utility units of local self-government to operate, change, I think is completely insane and unnecessary. The hypothetical unit of local self-government may also decide that the transport of their municipal enterprise in the area and local self-government units for their citizens will be free of charge. Where is the market with business entities, then, if the deputy minister says that municipal businesses are also allowed to be on the market. The order was introduced here, and the order was introduced exclusively from one thing and there is no need to compare the union's opinions with which I agree with Istria and Primorje, nor the opinion of the Association of Cities or anything. There's an exclusive public interest here that someone has to take control of. In this case, it's local self-government and a line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104498	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104499	Yes, Mr. Klaric, I agree with you that some scenes that we can see not only in Brussels, but in Amsterdam where people sleep under those bridges, etc., cannot be seen in the Republic of Croatia or not in such numbers, which does not mean that they do not have an incomparably higher standard than there is atrocity in the Republic of Croatia not those who sleep under the bridge but society as such. We wanted to admit it or not, but because we don't see such scenes, maybe we should thank one of the policies being conducted when it comes to the housing of our citizens until the '90s, I said we wanted to admit it or not. In that social order, there was a lot of bad things, but in that part, others could certainly see the period when it was divided only on the ground of the Republic of Croatia over 400 thousand so on. the social housing that our citizens bought out there somewhere in the '91s. Until '93. A year. If that were not the case, the situation would probably be similar in the territory of the Republic of Croatia not in one city to these scenes, you would say from Brussels, Strasbourg or not, I added Amsterdam. I said, I repeat, that this is not a banal question, that this question, and this law bears the title of funeral activity is not a marginal question, this is not a lapidarian question. I agree with you when you said that this law is of extraordinary importance, that it's an extraordinary question of life. However, I will once again say, it may be difficult for me for a moment to think that a law that carries such a law would cause such a debate. But the fact as Boro Grubisic mentioned earlier that this law is ultimately or that maybe one billion euros are connected to this law, some interest and that's, say, one-seventh of that.../The speaker's off. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104500	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104501	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, you listed a few things in your debate. First, you pointed out that after the law was applied, the hunt for the deceased would begin. Believe me, I won't be allowed to do that. You know why? Because even now, the market has only been regulated in a way that indeed, and you have seen from the data, 50% of the printed concessions, 50% of it by companies or utility companies. And now this law, i.e. this ministry, and this government itself has adapted what already exists on the market, not to be in one gray zone, gray activity, but to be at the level of what... Once again, it's just been regulated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, you mentioned a loss of jobs. I also don't think it's going to be absolutely because now that you have a monopoly then that monopoly is his job to make extra profits and you don't have room for anyone else. When it's put on a market principle, then there's no more extra profit than there has to be profit, of course, so we always work for some profits, not for loss, but then there's going to be a lot more space and space and for some others that aren't there now. As for the union and this part, yes, there may be fear, because I said in my debate, in certain communal societies there can really be an unreal lot more employees doing the same thing than someone does. There will need to be a good optimization of the work of the market because experience believe me more I have had complaints about the work of the municipal society when, for example, there is some activity to be carried out and people have not come or have never come because they were too cold or cold in their last name or, say, they were not working on Saturday afternoons, Sunday mornings, when there was no practical problem on the market in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104502	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104503	I believe first and foremost that in the future we will keep, or according to this we will all simply have one duty of dignity, from here on out, everything is actually passing. This relationship with the families that happen simply this accident, without it, simply cannot function even this letter on paper in this law. I also want to believe that, now is possible through the law, that the law will retain one social dimension. We are all aware that the minimum fee or minimum cost of one funeral is between 1000 and 2000 euros, it is simply a fact and it is one huge money today for a whole series of families in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, I say and the unions are right if they fear on the one hand for membership, if they fear for part of their membership that has been engaged in for the time being the safest activities. They're just communal activities. But I also agree that undertakers must impose themselves simply and take care of how to simply "satisfy" not their interests but to survive on the market. And that is why the legislator should simply find one right measure between the interests of local self-government, citizens on the other hand, between the undertakers of the third and perhaps these employees who work in these municipal enterprises and are involved in these trade unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104504	Ljiljana Cvetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104505	Dear Vice President. I believe that this proposed legislation did not adequately consider the whole problem of performing the funeral activity. I would like to quote data from 14 cities in the Republic of Croatia: Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek, Zadar, Slavonski Brod, Pula, Sisak, Varazdin, Sibenik, Bjelovar, Dubrovnik, Koprivnica and Križevci. In the area of these cities, there are a total of 197 cemeterys where local self-government units manage established municipal companies where more than 1400 workers are employed in jobs related to municipal activity. Eighty-three thousand deaths were buried in these cities from 2009 to 2013, on average 16 600 deaths a year. Whether the application of this law will lead to the collapse of the quality of service provision and dismissal of workers and similar serious consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104506	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104507	Very short. We've heard that only those 20 utility companies are working 1400 workers. I don't know how many people are employed in all these societies in the Republic of Croatia, but only that number of 1400 is simply more than respectable. In one Istria, more than 1,400 people employ only Oil. Perhaps in the Primorje-Gorski County along the Uljanik and KBC. I do not see that there is either another institution or a better said working institution with more than 1400 workers and therefore there should be as sensitive and no priority should attack the position and trade union branches throughout the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104508	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104509	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, who has not been proposed by this law, has determined that digs and maintains cemeteries can go into concessions or private hands. So these employees who are working on it now will still do the same thing, 1400 of them, but it's only for these 12 cities that the colleague just said. But what I wanted to say in particular is that as nobody is said to be born alone and nobody dies alone, and then those whose family dies mostly raise their loans to these great banks and banking industries that are so called and bury their dead with piety, etc. What utility companies do is it says involved in the public interest and the public matter. In the City of Zagreb, there is a 18% cut. Do those who dig in in the City of Zagreb have to pay both the bell and the nylon and all that, and 18% is the cut? They have to. It means that they have 18% of those who pay the city of Zagreb as a cut. Furthermore, the mortuary industry is unfortunately, I call it so deliberately, on the rise. I wish we had an increase in the number of live births so that the child's equipment industry, children's food and everything that belongs to children would be on the rise. This is an industry that will never stop working as long as our living heart beats or until we all die together here. Therefore, clearly that the interest in this law is great because the real job is safe, the job is secure. And no one's defending a utility company to do the transport services they're currently most discussing. along with the privates. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] So who's better...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104510	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104511	Yes, exactly, Mr. Grubisic, many are simply forced to raise credit so that they can bury their deceased. And it's exactly as you notice in one Zagreb cut is 18%. That's from this year and in my Buzet, no matter what we've kept mountain-mounted status in 75% of the stake, that's the 6% cut. What we didn't know until yesterday. Let me just tell you, I read a title preparing for this debate that the first private cemetery in Croatia prices lower, quality higher. I hope for the living, not for the dead, although in Istria even our cemetery is paid by the PR agencies probably for easier communication with the Almighty or the Almighty, excuse me. Therefore, you can see that private cemetery can be formed in Croatia and that prices will be lower and quality will be higher. Where such graves are, I don't know, but no matter what, it's about one serious business and a business that many people are talking about today justifiably.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104512	My colleagues and colleagues, information about this week's work. Today we are doing points 1 through 8 with the fact that we are going to skip point 7 because tomorrow the board will be working on that point. On Thursday, we do points 9 to 12, plus item 7 and Friday, point 13. On behalf of the Club of Independent Leftists, Col. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104513	Deputy Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, the second reading of this law is much better, the text is more quality, but it is precisely that text that shows a poor intention of the ministry. Listen, I've been hearing about market liberalisation all day. I'm sorry this law is market liberalisation? This law? Well, it doesn't matter, it's all regulated here, everything. The provisions on companies and trades that must behave in this respect, registrations that must be carried out are far more severe than the concession tender of units of local self-government. It is only this law that we can call the law against freedom of the market to show this law. Excuse me, the undertaker has to be introduced into the register to get permission. He needs to get a business solution. Where's your liberalisation there? He has to get a solution. What did he get until yesterday? Concession contract. He must have a professionally employed man who has the authority to deal with it. He didn't have it until yesterday. Not only that, that same man has to pass his exams, and he's gonna pay for those exams, he's gonna pay fat. Remember, I said in Finland I can drive it. No, now you've regulated it must be a vehicle with sanitary solutions, special permits, it has to get atest. No, no, that's not what you wrote in the law of the past. That we don't say it has to have business spaces. Excuse me. Where's your free market? Where's your free market? In this law? No, I don't. And now the law shows true intent. In transport because it is important here only transport, nothing else is interesting, in transport we will not allow units of local self-government to allow private markets to be included in the activity only in transport. No, that'll be done by the minister now. Through this law he will write the rules, he will write the instructions, he will write the way, he will define the register, he will define who will conduct the payments, how much it will cost to pay. So, I'm sorry, did we lose track of the freedom of the market? No, I don't. This law now clearly shows. The transport of the deceased is taken out of the hands of local self-government units and transferred to the competent minister with far greater restrictions than those carried out under the concession contract. The only question remains whether it was done badly in local self-government units, so now it's the reason for the law to be passed. From all the debates we see, it wasn't bad done in local self-government units when we talk about transportation, it wasn't bad done. It's perfectly done. In fact, it's more responsible to the entrepreneurs because they're limited there. If you have to have space and a car and this and that, then let's not make everyone jump in and go down and limit the number. The only problem when we talk about the Law on Community Activity when transporting the deceased was a limited number that is not here. Now I'm asking what's more responsible? According to entrepreneurs, there is a limited number, because you will allow anyone to invest in a car, in this and that. What are we gonna have again? Pre-party settlements, bankruptcys because people overestimated their ability to earn on the market so much that they could justify investing in this company, which is now under special measures of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and craft. Therefore, this law is not a law on market liberalisation, this law now has legislative restrictions that are far more devastating and difficult for entrepreneurs instead of concession restrictions. That's the first one. Now we're going to work. And now we see the reverse, the freedom of the market that we had in the sale of crates, in the sale of flowers, in the washing, in the clothes, it was completely free, it could work whoever it wanted. Now no, now it has to be registered as a undertaker undertaker, he has to get permission for that, he has to have a professional staff, he has to have exams, so excuse me if it's market freedom? No, you, when you count now and read what funeral activity is now, have now reduced the freedom of the market and transferred under total limits of this law. I have to say that I don't understand anything else in Article 8, the sale of funeral equipment and funeral supplies is now a mortuary activity. So the carpenter can no longer sell what's called a casserole, a coffin, he can't, he has to be registered as a undertaker. Worse organization and selling flowers and candles when the funeral is only the undertaker can sell you flowers, so it says, just the undertaker. So you can't go to the flower shop because you have your favorite flower shop and you take the wreath at her place, no, not just the undertaker, so it's written there. Gentlemen, what is freedom of the market? Is this freedom, is this liberalisation? Well, no. We're of the one freedom we had, and the only transport we were responsible for, we're throwing this away now, and he's got to be registered, he's got to be registered in the register, he's got to get a license. And imagine, at the flower shop you'll have to have an employee with a funeral service exam. That's how you wrote it, it doesn't say flower procurement, it says flower sales, read flower sales. What sales? Selling coffins. So we now have greater restrictions on entrepreneurial freedoms than we did yesterday. And that's why I really consider this law nothing more than a desire for the ministry to define itself with limitations in this activity and to declare itself competent, which until yesterday was the units of local self-government in the transport area. Everything else was the freedoms that are now less according to this law. Entrepreneurial freedoms are less under this law, and it's only about transportation. So if it's already a problem with that transport, if there's really more of them, then the ministry could only insist that all units of local self-government double the number of concessions because it's basically no difference between concessions. They're the same freedoms for you, except by contracting a concession you define to him what he must have to have in order to have a ride. And a little more responsibility is not released because it will fail, because the number of deaths in Croatia is still a market that does not increase, 5% up, 5% down it is defined. And every investment in that activity is a risk to the entrepreneur. One can succeed, the other can fail. And that's why the concession contract was better than this where we're going to impose on him now. And there's no cheaper, try to figure out no cheaper funeral, no cheaper. The local self-government units are still in charge of the burial and cemetery area, and the transport is now with the duties where you have to register, have a professional employee, where you have to pay for the education of that person, the exams of that person, where you have to have a top car, so what makes it cheaper? Do we think that competition at the same number of deaths in Croatia gives a lower price? No, no. All those who will work at dumping prices will fail. So we create greater uncertainty with entrepreneurs. And that is why we believe that this law is written for the purposes of the ministry to put themselves in that jurisdiction and to reduce the jurisdiction of local self-government units. And he's aware that the objection to local self-government units is gone. Because if we had given full freedom to the cemetery, the cemetery organization, and the burial site, then we could say that the problem is for local self-government units. Because these are huge investments invested in previous years in cemeteries that are still being paid for 20, 30 years in the long term, and of course at that point both the entire activity and the companies formed communal in that part could be compromised. With transportation, they won't be threatened. Is there just a question of what we've done with this law? So it's not liberalisation and this P.Z.E. It's bullshit, it's not P.Z.E. Because the law tells you that you can determine for yourself. And are you going to license and control through the Ministry of Trade what we have here, and it's far more difficult, or are you going to do it through concessioning so that the units of local self-government each for their own territory has freedom in that part of it, it's the same devil to you. And that's why there are no restrictions when we talk about the directive because these are more restrictions if we're going to have a serious conversation. The club has no way of supporting the law written for the purposes of a ministry, not for the public interest of the Republic of Croatia. This is not even an entrepreneur's interest, because here we impose higher costs on entrepreneurs, greater procedures than concession contracts. And on the other hand, our club can't accept the destruction of local self-government units, deprivement of local self-government units and centralization.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104514	Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104515	Here's Mr. Linic, I fully support your debate, and I'm basically public with the replica until you've told me what you've been telling me here all along, a ministry whose work hasn't taken this part to decide what's going to happen on the ground in the areas of local self-government units. And there's a question at all about the need to pass a law like this, and I've been saying it the whole time. When the Law on the Community Economy is defined and clearly stated and so far all these entrepreneurs have been on the market through concession contracts, let's agree to extend, let's give a number of concessions, but the order in this part has been and as you have said complaints about local self-government units, to organise all of this was not from the field. And we agree that differences in prices from units of local self-government to units can be, but they are regulated by decisions and representative bodies, decisions and these municipal societies at the end and control of the entire community. To pass one law that defines only one form of the most banal vision, the cheapest vision and funeral activities when everything remains in the jurisdiction or communal company in the matter of burial, but sets up the opening of another market. Because when it comes to family, then the family is the most vulnerable at that moment, and it is at that moment that whoever comes to it agrees with everything, and then he offers obituaries, and crowns, and a chest, and all the other accompanying equipment. And there is a model that opens up the possibility of manipulation in that part. The transport is cheapest, 3, 4 to 5, 6 kuna per km at Croatia level and that's it. This law regulates only one part and we have it regulated already by the law on the municipal economy, we have established practice on the ground that self-government units have been doing for 11 years I think it's crazy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104516	Thank you. Slavko Linic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104517	I want to make it clear that this law will also have order, but this order if the law is implemented is more expensive than the concession contract units of local self-government because the funeral home has to register its activity, it must register in a special register, it must go on request for approval of that cost, it must professionally employ at least one person who has a school for this part and what is also important must go on additional training and education. It's all more expensive than a concession contract. And what we have to say, for the businessmen, a concession contract with a limited number means taking care of them, however, that all the investments they have and the number of dead who can somehow find and survive on the market. This part of it will all be invested will be huge investments, and what will happen to them is misjudged in the market. Then individuals will fall, lose, families will suffer, unpaid workers will be, and I hope there will be no adverse consequences for the deceased. Because there is simply no free market, this law is not a free market and we have to understand that. This is just moving limited powers to economic activities from the local self-government unit to the ministry. In my opinion, more expensive for the entrepreneur and under number two well-organized activity that worked now we want to destabilise and try a new model. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104518	Marian Skvaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104519	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104520	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104521	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, there's one obvious thing in your debate that you've already forgotten what it's like to be mayor. So I ask you, please, that you no longer have to fight to keep us from taking away this kind of authority or responsibility, especially as far as funeral transport is concerned. To cities and municipalities, believe me, we don't need that. Because with this very law where there has been a big mess, it is defined that what is our highest authority that we are dealing with cemeteries, its maintenance and burial, and this is all that you have mentioned where indeed on the market can be defined in a way that we leave it open to the market. You also said that in that part it was much simpler and better to implement a unilateral concession procedure. Tell me, where is the concession procedure simple and light? Did you do it the way the minister and the mayor spent their concessions and then you'd know how much trouble you had? And only the concession talks about the terms of the concession, it tells you in some way about the fees, and it also tells you about references that someone who accepts that concession must have certain responsibilities. And here you have now said that now with this law on market principles they will have to have much higher costs, do you perhaps allud that when the concession is run by the city or the municipality allows much more free and comfortable, or beyond the conditions that the concessionary must have? And now this once-in-a-lifetime law is much stricter. I think we've got to take care of it. And when you talk about a free market, it is based on a system of free entrepreneurship and free competition and this country and these general rules of the game of economic activity must be based on the law and the law must define this free market under which conditions someone must define it. So I think this law is very much leading to order, and trust me, mayors, the commissioners don't need to defend against this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104522	Slavko Linic Replic response
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104523	Well, I haven't even spoken to the mayors, they have their own association, so let them fight through their own association. But I'm also very close to entrepreneurs and companies, and yet I can assess what this law gives them and what the concession agreement with the municipality brings them. And allow me, then I ask you if you know what entrepreneurs are? And when we talk about a concession tender for the transport of the deceased then it's a very simple tender you pay nothing extra but you have to have the conditions prescribed by the municipality. And these conditions, compared to this law, are not allowed to be compared. They're far more liberal, far more turned by entrepreneurs. They don't commit them to extra education, nor commit them to hiring people with a profession for this part. Or restricting them from selling coffins, flowers, candles, nothing restricts their concession contract. And this one limits them all. So I was talking about entrepreneurs, this isn't liberalisation, this isn't any liberalisation. When you prescribe an activity in which you have to register to perform it, you have to pay the study fee if you are obliged to do so, which prescribes what you will... Then it is the introduction of order in a far more difficult way than the concession agreement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, that's my knowledge of the economy, that's my knowledge of the state's relationship, the unit of local administration towards the economy. So, there's a difference, the economy has had with the current model far more freedom, far less cost. And most importantly, read to yourself except for the transport of the deceased nothing was concessioned, it was completely free. It's not with this law anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104524	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Marija Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104525	Dear Vice President, no deputy, no associates. The adoption of the Law on burial activity is of course to welcome entrepreneurs and craftsmen and undertakers’ associations, for for many years they have been appealing to the adoption of such a law because it regulates the rights and obligations of the undertakers that we have to admit so far were not possible. And what is of particular importance to them, as well as to the like-minded, is the abolition of the practice that companies owned by local units enjoy monopoly on the market at the expense of undertakers, entrepreneurs and users of funeral services. On the other hand, we have dissatisfied representatives of municipal companies, local units that claim that funeral activity is an activity of public interest for citizens and that as such should remain in the jurisdiction of local self-government units which in this case controls the price and quality. Is that so if she's not here on Wednesdays? But no work without a background with no interest. In turn, trade unions believe that this is not a way of raising the quality of service and that there will be no decline in prices of services, and in particular there will be no employment of a larger number of workers, i.e. new workers, on the contrary, to reduce the number of workers from municipal companies who, through the present provision of mortuary services, will be employed and who will, in that case, be redundant and to create a new group of socially endangered workers who remain jobless. But I must point out that the workers who worked in the municipal company remain and remain employed by this law in municipal societies because the jobs within the cemetery are still in the domain of utility companies, businesses. Of course, the adoption and regulation of this law in the communication of the owners of private funeral and municipal companies owned by cities and municipalities should not have come into question, so I believe that the final bill is the result of a joint attempt to make a good, quality law. Indeed, in cases like this, when something is introduced as a newspaper through laws, it must always be very careful and answer questions and in this particular case, yes, the question of whether the claim by municipal companies that the funeral activity is a public interest activity for citizens and on the other hand whether the funeral activity is an economic activity as claimed by undertakers. Of course two sides, two different interpretations, two attitudes. In both cases I would say user service pays a service and yet you trust him to pay it in a utility company, company or company to a private entrepreneur. Of course, it is up to us to pass a law that offers the best possible solution so as not to break everything on the back of citizens, of course, by crossing some important things but also by the ultimate costs. Of course, I think there should be good mechanisms for control in the work of mortuary activity, which is again regulated by another law. I wanted to point out that through all the debates that were being held, we have not wondered about reducing the cost of the funeral, especially not the poorest part, and which even the biggest users are in it, and these are the pensioners. Of course this isn't the subject of this law, but it's not a waste and mention. And that is why we see the possibility of competition, I would say on the market, and where, in that case, competitive prices should be achieved, or cheaper prices, to choose the user himself. In accordance with the European Union Directive, certain segments of the mortuary activity must simply be separated from the scope of the work or activities of the municipal companies, in particular that part of the takeover and transport of the deceased person to the place of burial or cremation. All these matters under guidance or EU Directives should be carried out freely on the market by natural and legal persons, of course, if they meet the requirements laid down by law. Of course, by removing each monopoly, there is liberalisation of the market no matter what it says, which should be the result of lower prices of funeral services or funeral equipment and of course competition in service quality. They should not be skeptical and doubtful about this law and for the reason that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce participated in its work, the Croatian Employers' Association in cooperation with the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship, but also their contributions were made by the Association of undertakers of Croatia, of course by all the following instructions of the European Union. Those who seem to me in that communication are slightly bypassed by representatives of the utility companies because those who have addressed us claim that they have not been informed that they are actively involved in this work. But certainly I am a advocate of respecting the will of citizens who have the right to... so on this side this proposal of the Law on undertakement is welcome and heading towards the free choice of our citizens or users. I would say just this, that jobs within the cemetery, as said in the law, I'm a funeral and all funeral jobs, or excavations, cancer and burial of graves, body transfer, etc., everything in that organization remains in the jurisdiction of municipal companies. In any case, the law is clear, especially in the part where the deceased is taken from death to cemetery or crematorium, which is the subject of this debate. The market match will begin with this Proposal for a Law on burial activity and in accordance with EU law, and thus the free choice of users of funeral services. What would be no good is that this law is understood by individuals as a possible hunt for the deceased as published by some media, and how it was heard through the debate today. And in the end, I'd just mention one, let me say one moral moment that we're neglecting, that morticians shouldn't afford the slightest mistake in the whole funeral organization because it's human emotions, the feelings of the last one being sent by their family member or friends. HSU will support this law with several amendments that we hold to contribute to the improvement of the proposed Law on undertakement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104526	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104527	Thank you very much. My colleague, you were talking about municipal enterprises participating in the burial and maintenance of the cemetery. Mr. Deputy Minister said more than 300 million kunas were achieved on that occasion. So even though we pay taxes to cities and municipalities, taxes, etc., another 300 million kuna waste for God's sakes in the case of the burial of one of the loved ones. Cemetery services are thus delivered at an amount of 550 million kuna, which is then 850 million kuna for funerals in the Republic of Croatia. That's the most basic thing. You have also shown yourself that in fear of the danger of commercialisation, therefore, funeral activities and hunting, so-called. Hunting how the media could carry it, hunting for the dead. Better at penitent, yes. But in doing so, you have also made your statement that this liberalisation would help people who, as you know for themselves, are mostly very often taking credit to achieve the burial of the deceased, not mentioning all the other costs that people have at the funeral. Now it is not clear to me whether you are with your amendments for or against if they accept or do not accept, how did you intend to vote in case the amendments I have read to you and which are good, were rejected by the legislators of this law. I'm very interested in your opinion. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104528	Maria Ilic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104529	So, Your Honor, whether the amendments are accepted or not, I don't think they're important or essentially going to change anything in that law. As regards the loan for the funeral of the deceased, the credit user of these services must also pay to the municipal undertaking or the undertaker. So he's the most important point in all of this, and the least we could do is talk about the user here. So we split into two groups are one advocate of privatisation, i.e. the provision of funeral services to mortuary companies. And on the other hand, of course, those who are in local units like the mayors, the mayors will certainly represent the interests of the municipal companies. But now let me just ask you, don't you think tomorrow's utility companies will be privatized as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104530	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104531	Dear Madam Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry. One of the colleagues here will say that unexpectedly this law has caused a lot of debate and interest which is logical. A man says when he's born they only eat things in life, and it's dying. So the funeral is something, the funeral is something that's been waiting for us all, and there's no one who's been involved in it in any way so far, and we know that the funeral and burial is important to all of us, and it's very important to us what this act will look like both for our neighbors and tomorrow and for ourselves. Here, of course, in this debate, a lot is said, a lot of things are said to say in the law, and it doesn't say. A lot is said, it's skipped what's written, so I'm going to try to talk about what's really important and what's clear. Therefore, this law does not in any way guarantee the responsibility and jurisdiction of the units of local self-government and their companies in the part which they had except in one and that is the transport of the deceased. Everything else that the local self-government units have done so far regarding the jurisdiction of the cemetery in the construction, maintenance, the act of burial itself, etc. He remains in their custody. The only thing that changes is that, now, the transport of passengers is no longer something that is in the express authority of local self-government units, so municipalities and cities do so themselves through their companies or to give a concession for it. Now it is somehow given to citizens to choose on the market who will work for them. And that's the only important or most important difference compared to the existing state. Therefore, the law makes it clear what funeral activities are, and from that it is, that it is a transport, that it is an organization, a sale of burial equipment, a provision of therefore, an organisation of religious rituals, all but the act of burial and what is happening in the grave itself and around the grave. And that's okay. What is therefore an important novelty, which is that now a citizen can choose for himself whom he will take to arrange for the transport of the deceased from A to the cemetery or should already, and so far it has been done by the municipality, or the city through its company or she chose it, she chose it by giving someone a concession. And that's the only important difference, instead of the community, so it's the one that's going to be chosen by the carrier so far by the community or city, and now it's going to be chosen by the citizen himself. In doing so, this law clearly provides for all the conditions to be met by those who will deal with it, so that it will continue to remain a regulated activity, that it will not be possible to do as anyone wills without being accurately prescribed, therefore also technical and sanitary regulations that it must comply with. And, however, that the people involved will also have to pass a certain expert exam, so they will be trained professionally. Instead of municipalities and cities that have been concessioning for the time being, the state office will now decide that someone is meeting these conditions. And that's what's important in this law. Who is being protected here, who is not being protected here, I would say that here, above all, protects the citizens' interest that they can get the same quality service as before or better. But in any case, it shouldn't be worse under perhaps expected more favourable conditions than it's ever been before. Because when someone has a concession or someone has a monopoly as a company owned by a local self-government unit, then they set prices, and this is how a citizen chooses who will do the same quality for someone else perhaps cheaper and more favourable. It's also been... whether local self-government units will be left without money in relation to their companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It shouldn't or should not be, because the work on the maintenance of the cemetery, the sale of graves, the organization, maintenance continue to work on municipal services. So, that's most of the cost when it comes to funerals. So, buying a cemetery and a funeral service, so I'm buried. That's the biggest part. The transport is even dared to say a much smaller item. Therefore, the units of local self-government and their companies will not run out of big money because most of the money will remain within their activities. Finally, no one defends the municipality or the city to have its company if it has it or if it does not have it, so that it also performs that activity and equally competes with each other, so that it is both more favourable and more competitive. Therefore, the municipalities will continue to be able to do so if they will. If they don't have a company I can start it, if they have it, I can register it to deal with it. And therefore, I can simply provide a service like everyone else and be if they are competitive, competitive. Therefore, here is the opportunity for companies owned by units of local self-government to be on the market but even with all others. Well, I guess we're not supposed to just do something, because some company is public, so it's owned by a community or a city to be privileged. I don't think it's anyone's interest, and neither are we here, but on the contrary, citizens are privileged to have an equally high-quality cheaper service, even if it's also for public companies, and why not if they can. Next, he says he's being taken away, so when it comes to taking away the business of utility companies. So, I said no. Most of it remains, units of local self-government or their companies can continue to work in parallel with others. Therefore, it is only possible that it is not prescribed that this must be done in a particular municipality, only by one to which the municipality gave the concession, and only by transport. That's the only difference that matters. It is said here that it must be a business of public interest and that it must be taken care of. Well, of course it's a public-interest job, and it's just this law being passed to regulate it. It does not mean that it is something of public interest that it cannot be carried out by a private craftsman or a company. A business which is of public interest can therefore be carried out both by crafts or by companies of private ownership. Besides, like he does in a number of others, I'd say other activities, so if you want more sensitive. Well, health care is of public interest and education, so we also have private schools, private offices. Therefore, it is not the point of whether it is private or public but whether it is doing its job in accordance with public expectations, with public authorities and whether the job is regulated by the state, and this is simply about it being regulated. And finally, the fact itself, and from this debate, they say that this is how it is that a social democratic government proposes this kind of neoliberal law, that it is general liberalisation. On the one hand, we hear complaints from those who are considered to be God’s leftists, and here we simply see that this is not the case. Others say that this isn't exactly, that it's anti-liberal, that it regulates everything. And you know when they attack you on the one hand that something is particularly liberal, too liberal, and others say it's not then it means the law hit the middle and it's good. Therefore, this law will certainly benefit citizens, and because of them we pass laws, neither the units of local self-government nor their companies will be deprived if they are of quality and if they are able to do their job properly and properly, no one will forbid them to continue to do so and to compete. And therefore we think that this law has taken the right measure in relation to what needs to be done. Therefore, it allows this activity which is of particular national interest to be controlled, arranged but made more accessible and cheaper for citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104532	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104533	Thank you very much. A colleague Jelusic, along with a lapus that you said, transporting passengers, not the deceased, but that is less significant, I wanted to say about it, that is, in your speech you advocated that the concessions that now exist in the units of local self-government be abolished. And clearly I will not suspect anyone or express suspicion in the way of obtaining and the procedure of obtaining a concession for a certain undertaker in a particular local self-government, but since you pointed out what I already say in replicas, therefore municipal companies can compete together with private undertakers in relation to the transport of the deceased and not passengers, therefore there is no lack of such competence between certain factors in the funeral activity, and burial and maintenance of cemeteries also selling graves, etc. remains in the domain of utility companies. So, I would agree with you that this is kind of a liberalisation, but when we listen to Mr. Linic say we're coming to one, so contradictory debate, and he thinks whether the law is good or not. I think he'll show me the future. We always have the opportunity to go back to the Hungarians, if this isn't good, and if it doesn't bring citizens to a reduced amount that citizens pay at funerals and funerals, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104534	Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104535	Comrade Grubisic, thank you first of all for this correction, that I made a lapus lingue, I said passenger transport, I meant of course the deceased. Of course, I have to say, in general, I agree with your replica and what you said, and I think it's unnecessary to bring a lot of confusion here today among those who listen to what's going on here. So the problem is just one, I'd say the main problem is the transport of the dead, who's going to do it. Everything else is more or less important to change. So far, it has been done by the municipalities or the city through its company or whoever it has given a concession, so it has chosen who will do it at prices clearly what kind of concessionary it has, and now it will be able to choose each citizen, choose who will transport his deceased, on the market, and that means choosing who is even more favourable to him, whereas this service must not be from anything that we see in anything worse, in nothing more unquality, but it will still have to meet all the technical and hygiene standards that are necessary. Therefore, this law certainly is a good solution. I agree with you that time will show but I hope the time will show that this law is good, not that it is bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104536	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Domagoj Hajdukovic, a colleague of Mirela Holy, are not present and are losing the right to debate on this point. Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104537	It's a wonder why this law hasn't been proposed before. By 2004, the transport of dead persons could be carried out freely by private, natural and legal persons. Why did the introduction of concessions then occur, and why did the transport of the deceased become a communal activity? That philosophical question I didn't hear the answer, and it would be hard to find. So, if someone is qualified to, with dignity, with the drinking equipment of a deceased person, place her in a coffin, perform all the other actions that bind to the dispatch of the deceased, why can't they also take him to the morgue or to the crematorium? Because imagine everything else is capable only of this isn't. And no one can explain why he didn't. So if his terms are still prescribed, and he's prescribed, what standards he has to respect, so if he doesn't respect them he'll lose his license to work, then the critics of this law actually have nothing to say, they have nothing to call on except for some kind of local patriotic reason that their municipality and their city don't run out of income that they've had through the monopoly. Now, what's better for citizens to have no choice or choice? I think it's better for citizens to be able to choose because when they can choose then they choose within the competition and then that competition will try to get each of them to get that job, so in the fight among other things, they will reduce prices and the city or municipalities if it's a monopoliest there's no need to cut the price because they know there's no one else who can translate that person except themselves. And here's a great opportunity for extra profit. Well, I know, and if that's the meaning of the community and the cities, is that the purpose of local self-government to allow them to make extra profits just because we declared one activity a communal that isn't. There was a big question about whether, if we let it through this law now, then we're declaring a dead person a slave, then she's driving like a slave, and what about living people, and even living people are being transported so they're not goods. So when you get in a cab, someone drives you, and you did say that a man is a slave, when you get on a bus again, someone's driving you, so isn't that why you're a slave? So that's why the deceased would become a slave just because he's transporting another person. It's stupid, it's just stupid. When there's nothing smart to object to, then they make up this kind of nonsense. So this is all about promoting entrepreneurial and market freedom and eliminating the monopoly. To this we are bound by the Constitution, to this the Constitution obliges us, and therefore the only question that amazes me here is why this law has not come before when it is self-evident, it is so clear, it is so understandable, it defends itself, it does not need to defend it at all with any arguments. The possibility of transporting the deceased is now available throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia and not only in areas under concession. And imagine now someone has a county concession, we have a person who died in Split and needs to be buried in Zagreb, this one must go through three counties, and the carrier has, the one in Split only has a concession for Split-Dalmatia County and then what will lead him to the edge of the new county, so he will cross the coffin with the new one, until this one passes his county for which he has a concession, then he will cross the coffin again and it is like much more dignity to the deceased. At the beginning of this debate, says counterpart Vuksic, equating conditions across the country that this is actually just an excuse for this law and that this is about an attack on local self-government and centralisation, and what about centralization is not clear to me, what did my colleague Vuksic see there what was centralized? In addition to the introduction of the same rules for all, the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia is, as far as I know, a unitary state is still not federal, so that different rules of conduct should apply in certain parts of Croatia, therefore what is in force in one part of Croatia must be valid throughout Croatia. Is that centralization? Well, it has nothing to do with centralised, so this is liberalisation, not centralised. So, this shows one but completely misunderstanding of this bill and objecting to an objection, I suppose, in order to meet the reporting norm and to raise the replicas in order to slightly raise the number of these reportings, and we will speak at least anyway. So, the sum of the sumarum that we do not prolong has no need to defend this law in particular, it is self-comprehensible, it is necessary, it is necessary, it will allow natural persons to expand their activity within the normal activity they are dealing with, they will not compromise the units of local self-government or prevent them from carrying out that activity if they want to but will have to operate marketly, then the units of local self-government will also have to correct that price in view of the market conditions. I still have time, but the time is coming for lunch and it's not a good idea to talk to people who are hungry and who can't wait for that break, so I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104538	Thank you very much. But since all we have left is our colleague Boro Grubisic, I suggest we hear him too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104539	Thank you very much. Here's what I'm going to do. I promise I'm going to cut this short, given that today is almost said or a lot of things are said about this. Namely, when a colleague, Stazic, speaks of municipal enterprises, they remain one part in a kind of monopoly. Because I've already said what's in my town, starting with a couple of feet of nylon 200 kuna, a foreign 120 kuna, a bell at 100 kuna, music that's quiet in the morgue I don't know how many kunas, the maintenance of a cemetery a year 300 kuna, a special burial outside of working hours, I don't know exactly how much it is, the transportation of employees to a cemetery, etc.... So it remains a kind of monopoly, so a utility company. Whether it will enter the race, the transport of the deceased must indeed be decided by the company itself or by the unit of local self-government owned by the municipal company. So she can enter, and we expect, as a colleague said in that race, in that competition to say, of course, everyone works for some profit to come and reduce the price of transporting the deceased by what they say 9 kuna per km and make it smaller. About the funeral activity that I have already said in replicas, it has indeed become one business since it is said in Croatia that 50 thousand are some sort of indicative number of annual deaths and 5300 burials for 2013 or 2014. So it is, I don't believe that given that so-called. The liberalisation comes at a huge increase in the number of funeral companies because in this case, certainly some of them will not be doing well mainly in perhaps smaller places, clearly that business can be extended to all of Croatia. And here's an example, the other day I was with a fisherman and he says he has a fishing license in the area of Brod-Posavina County and he can't fish in Osijek-Baranja County because that license is exclusively for Brod-Posavina County. Why can't he go to Zrmanja, Cetina, Una, etc.? It can't be because that license is exclusively for Brod-Posavina County. There is no state fishing permit in the whole area of the Republic. But fishing isn't the topic right now, so we're not going to talk about it either. So is this. So if someone with their own quality and these regulations listed here meets all the conditions he can carry out a funeral activity in the territory of Croatia. Whether this will lead to this liberalisation in one hand to the survival of only larger companies that can offer cheaper, better quality transport of the deceased and all other funeral services will show time or will be able to survive those small companies that are currently in concession with local self-government units and we know how concessions are concluded. I wouldn't want to, say again to suspect anyone but if there were certain arrangements, conversations so who's going to get a concession in some community there are and subjective things not only objective in terms of quality but also in terms of familiarity and something else I wouldn't want to talk about. There are a lot of problems in the funeral home, and we are here today discussing only one segment, but with funeral and mortuary they are related as I have already said a number of occupations. I've counted 12, and I'm going to repeat myself from carpenters who make leaks, from florists, so waxers who make candles, musicians who come to play funerals, priests of various confesions. So then to the restaurant for those lipsticks or that funeral home, etc. So the undertaker for the making of tombs, the builders who make tombs, so they armitage, dig, etc., the coroner, and the medical staff who sometimes have some bad roles, and then some undertake to a grieving relative who at that time doesn't even think about who but says here, go over there and do it. But it's a matter of some other law and some other things that concern the mortuary, not the current law. I think this law will remain and this relationship 52:48 in favour or there will then come to 2% of the alignment so it will be 50:50 in the activities of municipal companies and private ones, to say so to private undertakers. And yes, since we were discussing museums the other day where we tried to introduce them into a competition, I am not surprised that the proposal of this law, which is only in this single segment, which is the transport of the deceased, and not the passenger as a colleague said, allows one, therefore a more liberal approach, and that transport is not only carried out by those who are concessioned by the unit of local self-government, or by the mayor or by a municipal company that exists on that ground if there is no concession but that everyone is involved in the transport company of the deceased. We are all witnesses when someone in Germany dies or somewhere outside that when a car comes with a deceased from Germany who is authorized there not to write the town of Hamburg that he drove, the municipal company of the city of Hamburg or Hanover or Munich or I don't know who but the private car of a private person in Germany is performing these activities. Therefore, I do not think there will be a lot of changes or earthquakes in that market that unfortunately are in Croatia given the size of our country, and I would prefer that we discuss the laws on reducing taxes on the price of baby food, children's clothing and all those products that are related to the newborn and our children. Unfortunately, the situation is that we're wasting our time here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104540	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Now we're gonna take a break. We'll continue at 3:00. It's a 13,35 o'clock meeting. Final proposal of the Law on burial activity second reading, P.Z.E.BR.733. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Economy and the Club of Representatives of HSU. I ask the Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts to declare first of all the amendments of the Committee on Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104542	The amendment of the Committee on the Economy is not considered necessary because the activity of those who had concessions will continue until the conditions are met in a certain period, so here it was not simply necessary to define this further.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104543	So you don't accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104544	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104545	The chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104546	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104547	The amendment of the Committee on Economy has been withdrawn. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSU, amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104548	The first amendment refers to the fact that the mortuary or craftsman is exclusively registered for burial activity. We did not accept this because there is practice in the EU for each other, we are the view that certain other activities must be allowed in addition to this in the undertakers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104549	Which one of the proposings? She's a colleague of Maria Ilic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104550	Thank you, Vice President. We believe in the HSU Club that our solution is far better and that it is easier since there are both of them in the EU Directive, of course, both, but the experience in the EU member states that have installed this proposed solution is far more effective and therefore better in practice has proved to be good and therefore I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104551	Let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. Score. The amendment did not receive the required majority, 28 for, 9 abstentions and 60 against. Amendment 2 to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104552	There's two things in there. So the first thing is to organize a funeral or send-off according to the given term of the competent office of the cemetery. We don't think that's necessary either, and it says in the law because it's not different or possible. You cannot organize a funeral unless you have received an appointment from the cemetery administration or the possibility of doing so. On the other hand, the undertaker undertakes that all data on the deceased person defined in the law should be provided to the competent office of the cemetery which is not necessary because you cannot organise a funeral in the cemetery unless you give that information or family, or a funeral company so that we have not accepted this amendment either.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104553	She's a colleague of Maria Ilic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104554	We meant to be good, but with this explanation, we're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104555	Amendment number two has been withdrawn. We can cut to the vote on the final bill. Please join the vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote 78 votes to, 20 abstentions and 4 against the adopted law P.Z.E.BR. 733.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104556	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. Now we're going to discuss the second point in our consolidated agenda. It is - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Time Act, mandatory holidays of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 809. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. We don't have a proposing representative. Who's gone without him can be. I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Nikola Vuljanic on behalf of the Independent Left-handed Club. He's gone, too, and without him, he can. On behalf of the HDZ club Josip Boris. He's got it, so we can't do it without him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104557	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's what we're going to do is we're going to take the HDZ Club's position on the amendment law proposal and additions to the Labour Time Act, mandatory mobile workers' vacations, road transport recording devices with the final bill. Since we do not have a representative of the government, we may need to invent a law that would talk about the mandatory vacations of our government workers, as well as the devices that might record it. Because this really is an inappropriate relationship, regardless of the importance of a law like this, and he's not a Benigan and he's not insignificant. This only speaks of how we are experiencing legal procedures and how the government's attitude towards this House is how we often say it. And that is why the HDZ club will be abstentioned on the proposal for this law, which was sent to the procedure, and it writes because it is in line with EU directives. Although it is just a few articles, an attempt to see the problem created by the adoption of the previous 2013 bill is correct. In the debate I will try to warn you of some of the problems that the law so far, but even the one proposed has not solved, which means that the whole system has not fully solved the problems faced by road drivers. About this bill. The 2013 Law has made it possible to improve the working conditions of drivers and other mobile workers carrying out road transport of loads and passengers, and has introduced road safety control through the use of analogue and digital tachographs in the course of motor vehicle management, as well as driver work. New vehicles registered in the Republic of Croatia for the first time since 1 January 2009 whose maximum permissible mass with a connected vehicle is already 3 and a half tonnes, and buses constructed or permanently adapted for the transport of more than 9 passengers including drivers must have a tachograph installed. Notwithstanding this legal provision, it has been established that transporters have imported a large number of old vehicles registered in EU Member States before 1 May 2006 over the past years. And as such they should not have installed a digital tachograph. Therefore, it was necessary to address this problem by amending the law proposed in such a way that all vehicles registered for the first time in the Republic of Croatia after the entry into force of this law must have a digital tachograph installed and vehicles registered before 1 May 2006 regardless of the state of registration of the vehicle must have, i.e. vehicles registered before 1 May 2006. they can have built-in analogue tachographs. Proposals for such amendments to the law would be protected by carriers and would allow for further carrying out of the activities of vehicles with an integrated analogue tachograph at no additional cost. Key road traffic problems and this law. Employment of drivers on black, second false tachographs, wage blackmail and fourth absence of inspection supervision. It may not surprise me, too, that I read yesterday in a daily newspaper, and it says, "For working in Canada, 140 professional drivers from the Republic of Croatia are wanted, an annual earnings of up to EUR 49,000. On 31.1.2015, a total of 4033 truck drivers, of which 4023 male persons and 10 female persons were registered at the Employment Office. According to that figure, this particular profession is at the very top of the unemployed looking for a job in the Republic of Croatia. It is not the first time in this government's mandate that the media are calling, however, suggesting, leaving the Republic of Croatia which is becoming a problem number one waiting not only for this government but for every next one that comes and which each of the next will have to solve. Why do people go into the world with bread? Because this government simply cannot provide them with normal working conditions, work and live off their work in their own country. That is why we read I say day-to-day tempting offers Croatians move to overseas countries, to EU countries, wherever you can look for a job because there is no job for you here. I said already, so working on black is not some news in transport, but not only in transport but also in many other activities, in tourism, in trade, in construction, etc. So I'm going to give some examples that concern this very law and people who work on black. Along with unrelenting workers from other companies, people in retirement are rarely employed, but also those who have no experience in driving a certain type of bus or, although they have the necessary category, spend most of their working life driving other vehicles like a truck. It's black, it's a fictitious contract. After 12 hours of work with their employer and transport on regular lines after which they should take a vacation of transport companies hire these people to drive tourists, pensioners, school children on excursions rarely at night. That's the facts. These passengers are at maximum risk, but fortunately, there have been no major accidents so far. There were, but there weren't any bigger ones. So we have one driver fluctuation in various ways through several transport companies. According to the Road Traffic Drivers' Trade Union, there are examples that according to regulations the allowed monthly driver's time fund is 184 hours, followed by one week of rest. However, they often drive up to 250 hours a month. Is that what's stopping this law? Should it just remind you of the accident that took place last year in Italy where the bus driver, who had 76 passengers for yet unconfirmed reasons, landed off the highway and turned to death by a 27-year-old young man, 2 persons who were more serious and 73 were injured? Is that settled with this bill? It's not. And how will it be solved? We don't have a suggestion. Why is that? The other is the problem, perhaps the biggest one, regarding this law, which is to fake tachographs. The driver’s union on road transport warns of the counterfeiting of tachograph sheets, i.e. certificates that drivers present as evidence that they are rested and that they can transport the required route are often misused. The carrier simply threw out the correct tachograph sheet and put in a new one that proves that the driver did nothing on that day, although he had previously driven a regular job. It is also amazing that some carriers reach out for digital tachographs to change old analogues. And it's just so we can fool around without the sanctions for it almost not even exist. It's not just the abuse of tachographs, after one ride drivers replace another free vehicle. Whether it's a bus or a truck, it doesn't matter. They continue to drive, I say, although they have fulfilled their driving quota for it. This law allows for still analogue tachographs and therefore nothing is solved. The third problem is blackmailing a pay driver. The situation has been alarming for a long time, primarily because of the way the driver pays, is mostly based on the percentage of the realisation. For example, the worker makes 12% of the total traffic that month, so if he was 80,000 kuna workers due to about 9,000 kuna per month. However, the company reports it to a minimumer and gets the rest of the money in cash. Some employers also hire drivers who are employed by other employers, and regulations that strictly prescribe how much the driver is allowed to work and how much rest is not respected. Nine hours drive, an hour and a half vacation, 28 days a month, so it should look like a professional driver's diary. The employer must not send a man who doesn't know what he was doing 28 days ago. The law should put an end to it. Digital tachographs must become standard, then that problem is solved. As long as the possibility of analogue tachographs is possible and malversion i.e. The possibility of malfeasance continues to exist. The current law is a threat to passenger safety, and we need to be very precise in the adoption of these laws where we will define exactly the conditions under which these people will work in order to meet all the legal obligations. Often, however, the law is not respected. Why? Because road traffic inspection can't control everything. In her jurisdiction, she has not only this law but also all other laws governing road traffic. What's the role of tachograph in that? Great, especially I say it again because of these analogues that continue to exist. If that's the way to be surprised at some of the accidents that happen on our roads, which is why the driver's tiredness is. What do we need? We need, above all, an unequivocal provision of legislation that prevents abuse, we need a well-organised Department of Road Traffic at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, a well-organised road traffic inspection that will increase the number of controls and the inclusion of other state institutions that can help with their powers to avoid what I warned about in road transport. The service inspection work is now being carried out by a total of 31 senior road and road inspectors, and the work management of the department's three department heads. Data show for 2014 that there is a space for introducing order and achieving results but that there is a need for greater presence, a greater number of supervisions that determine more and more and more from year to year violations. I say once again I'm sorry for the government's attitude, i.e. not even showing up to the government to say anything about this law because it's simply about human lives. And those who are unaware of it clearly refer to it in the way they showed here today. I say this law is important and we should really discuss it professionally, but who should we talk to when the government's representative simply doesn't exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104558	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague, Damir Rilje, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104559	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, so here I would also have to say a few words about this law that I was also expecting to hear in the opening part a few words from the rest of the ministry, but here is how they are gone I will try to stay on what is left and it is actually on the bill itself. Therefore, we have before us a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Labour Time and Mandatory Holidays Act of Mobile Workers as well as recording devices in road transport which regulates working time, mobile workers' breaks, rest working hours and rest periods for drivers and vehicles used for the transport of passengers on line-by-line transport up to 50 km length and infringement provisions. So a very simple, relatively simple law that regulates a lot of touching specifically this important branch of the economy, so transport and people who are directly involved and who are employed in this branch. Therefore, the adoption of this law also lays down rules for drivers and vehicles that are actually in line with the EU's legal acquis in the field of social conditions, in particular the protection of mobile workers in road transport in a way that clearly determines the rules on working time, vacations and the duration of the working week. The proposed law also regulates infringement provisions in accordance with the provisions of the European Community Regulations No 561/2006 and 165/2014. First of all, it is important to note that mobile workers, therefore, are all workers who make up part of the transport staff of the companies carrying out road transport of passengers or cargo as public transport or transport for their own purposes, including trainers and scientists, as regards provisions relating to mobile workers' vacations. Of course, everyone is still in operation and operating under the European agreement on the work of the crew on vehicles carried out in international road transport concluded in Geneva in the long 70s at least in those parts still in force and also in accordance with agreements or provisions and regulations of the EU and the European Community. Something about the amendments and additions to this law, vehicles produced and registered in EU countries, should have been installed in accordance with Council Regulations of the European Economic Community No 3821/756 after 1 May 2006, a digital tachograph rather than an analogue tachograph. Therefore, they should have been registered with a digital tachograph, but the Republic of Croatia had to fulfil the conditions laid down in Chapter 14 of the Transport Policy for EU accession among other things and the conditions for the implementation of a digital tachograph, which was then prescribed in the Labour Time Act, mandatory mobile workers' holidays and road transport recording devices, in such a way that all vehicles will have the highest permissible mass with a connected vehicle greater than 3.5 tonnes and buses constructed to permanently fit for the transport of more than 9 passengers including drivers and such new vehicles that are first registered in the Republic after 1 January 2004 must have a digital tachograph. The applicable law of Article 3(3) provides that new vehicles which are registered for the first time in the Republic of Croatia after 1 January 2009 will also have a maximum permissible mass with a trailer greater than 3,5 tonnes and buses constructed or permanently adapted for the transport of more than 9 passengers including a driver shall have a tachograph in accordance with proposal 1b of Council Regulation No 382/185. However, regardless of such a legal provision, it has been established that during the past years, carriers have imported a large number of old vehicles registered in the EU Member States before 1 May 2006 and should not have a digital tachograph installed, so it was necessary for this problem to be solved by the proposed amendments to the law in such a way that all vehicles registered in the Republic of Croatia for the first time after the entry into force of this law must have digital tachographs and vehicles registered before 1 May 2006 regardless of the country of registration of the vehicle may have an integrated analogue tachograph. The proposal for such an amendment of the law would save carriers and would allow for further carrying out of the activities of vehicles with an integrated analogue tachograph at no additional cost. So it's on the economic side right, security is a little bit questionable. So, how much this will affect the quality and safety of transport remains to be seen naturally by continuous and continuous inspections and by, of course, ensuring the correctness of the rolling stock. Article 3 of the basic law amended the meaning of the concept of the centre of the company as one of the places of work of mobile workers and added Article 4 of the applicable law, in Article 4 of the applicable law, a new concept of the week where it is regulated which is actually a week within the meaning of this law. Article 6 of the basic law addresses the issue of a break in which drivers, drivers and drivers are unable to drive or perform other tasks and it is pointed out that this break has to be used exclusively for rest. Of course, all of this together needs to be controlled in order to be implemented. Article 7 of the basic law shall be implemented in an appropriate manner in accordance with the provisions of Article 8(1). Directive 2002/15 of the EC providing for the possibility that EU Member States may, for objective technical reasons or reasons relating to the organisation of work, provide for an exception to weekly working time and night work. This derogation may be regulated by collective agreements, agreements between social partners, laws or other regulations. This amendment proposes an exception for the transport of passengers on a line of up to 50 km in such a way that, if there is a need for objective, technical or practical reasons relating to the organisation of work, the law governing working relationships or collective agreements may apply. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As regards the provisions of the Labour Regulation, the legislation governing working relationships shall apply. Article 8 of the basic law provides for documentation which the driver is obliged to provide to the authorised person at the time of its request for supervision or verification of the implementation of the rules. Article 9 of the Article 12 of the basic law regulates the issue of issuing a new permit for the work of workshops. In the Republic of Croatia this authorisation has the Agency for Commercial Activity d.o.o. after the expiry of the period of 5 years to which the authorisation is granted and it must apply for a work permit at least 60 days before the expiry of the valid authorisation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Directive 2006 and EU Regulation 165/2014 in such a way that the competent inspection bodies referred to in this Act, together with the other competent supervisory authorities of the Member States of the European Union, will develop joint training programmes for persons performing supervision and control under the European Commission guidelines on best practice of implementation carried out in the Commission's two-year report, allow for the exchange of persons exercising supervision and control within the Member States of the European Union and will organise joint controls with representatives of the competent authorities of other Member States at least once a year, all in order to carry out uniform controls and controls. So it is also obvious here that our supervisory and control bodies will have to comply with the bodies of the European Union which do so simultaneously in other Member States of the European Union. Once again, it is important to note that Articles 5, 6 and 8 are complemented and governed by the provisions on working time, so a full maximum of 48 hours of working time per week. The maximum weekly working hours may be extended to 60, only if the 48 average is not exceeded during those 4 months. If a mobile worker performs jobs for different employers, working hours are the sum of working hours for all employers. The employer is obliged by a mobile worker working with several employers on a written basis to request a record or calculation of the working time carried out by the mobile worker for another employer. The mobile worker shall be required to submit the calculation referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article in writing to the employer where he is employed. So the total working hours, so the employer who makes the rent must know the burden of every mobile worker, or employee in these jobs. If a mobile worker does business, then he is obliged to deliver such a report to the employer who is currently employed as the sum of working hours, i.e. the calculation of working time totaled for all employers during the appropriate period. Article 6 of mobile workers performing mobile activity in road transport shall, no later than 6 hours of continuous work, take a break unless better protection is provided by the international agreement and Regulation of the European Community 561/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The working hours shall be interrupted by breaks of at least 30 minutes if the total number of working hours until then is between 6 and 9 hours and by a break of at least 45 minutes if the total number of working hours is more than 9 hours. The flats cannot, as I have already said, be used for driving or driving or performing other jobs but exclusively for rest. For objective or technical reasons or reasons relating to the organisation of work, the collective agreement may lay down the exceptions to the provision of Article 5 of this Act, subject to the existence of an agreement between the employers and workers to which they relate with the promotion of all relevant forms of social dialogue. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Regulation of working time for mobile workers who, therefore, would fall within the story of therefore working time for mobile workers carrying out line transportation of passengers on lines of 50km. Here are briefly some changes that technically this law would bring. Quality of course, it should be possible to monitor the activities of vehicles and mobile workers on vehicles as much as possible and to best automate, digitise and monitor as best possible for the sake and safety of transport as possible, as well as to make better use of the working time of mobile workers and to monitor and make accurate calculation and quality calculation of the corresponding salaries of mobile workers, as well as for the quality of liner transport. Of course, I am again referring to the safety of traffic, i.e. the security of traffic of passengers and goods. Here's the SDP club that will accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104560	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club will speak to the respected Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104561	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, there is no Mr. Antesic. So today we have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Time Act, mandatory holidays of mobile workers, although all workers are mobile mainly, but it is about drivers, professional motor vehicle drivers, and about registration devices in road transport, etc. tachographs, whether analogous or more modern digital tachographs, which are, in accordance with the European Union Directive, which we have accepted mandatory on all vehicles, as stated here in the legislative proposal, produced after 1 May 2006. Those who, therefore, have been in use in some other countries, have, by this means, come to the Republic of Croatia by any other means, have to have a digital tachograph if it is in 2009, so how the registration was made in the Republic of Croatia. Every law, our people say, wouldn't be the law if it didn't have holes that could be used. Thus, Mr. Boris spoke of how and how positive, good regulations can be played that some kind of regulation in good faith and good intentions are trying to achieve. In fact, we have witnessed that in the countries of the European Union, but we also have accidents that cause the driver's tiredness to experience sleep or drowsiness, or there is a tragedy on our roads, highways and elsewhere. What about these directives that sort of repairs the regulation of this matter? The most important thing to me is that it determines the time of rest prescribed here on the site, just for a moment to find, therefore, a break or a vacation in Article 6 where it says that mobile workers performing mobile activity in road transport. So professional drivers can say freely, they must have a break at the latest after 6 a.m. because mobile workers are both engineers and they are mobile and they travel, no later than 6 hours of continuous work, unless it is better provided by the agreement of the European Parliament and the Council, if there is nothing better. The working hours shall be interrupted by a break of at least 30 minutes, if the total work hours until then are between 6 and 9 hours, and by a break of at least 45 minutes if the number of working hours is more than 9 hours. And finally, the break can be distributed to smaller sections, time sections of 15 minutes in order to make a truly real break and a real vacation and not to be used for any other purpose. So in case you're trying to play this law there, I won't recommend to anyone anything like I told you at the beginning of the hole in the law, but that the driver from one vehicle is moving to another vehicle and that he drives away again 5, 6, 9 hours it's also possible. So the vehicle and the tachograph show one thing, and the driver can be moved from one work unit if we are to talk about mobile workers to another so that it is sometimes difficult to determine actually the right state of affairs given the employer’s interest, which is very often in collapsing with this directive and this legislative proposal where this should be respected. Only when there's an accident, an accident, when there's immaterial and material damage, does one imagine what it's all about. In Croatia it is true that there are over 4,000 professional drivers who are mostly hard to find a job, and we can see that even from films and reports, documentaries, that this profession is highly appreciated in some other countries where it is not a problem to find a job in the profession. 182 hours a month's work, a week's vacation that was defined as a vacation from Monday 00 to Sunday at 24, so exactly 7 days is all written and defined here, except I'm saying that there are always holes in the law or ways to bypass it in various ways. About our companies and our employers who have mobile units, so either buses or trucks, there's a good part of those who work on black or gray, let's say, in the gray zone and get paid the minimum because of the contributions made on the minimum wage, and the rest on their hands, that's not to be talked about. Many of our drivers, professional drivers, went away, applied to Houston to Mr. Chaney in the U.S. Army, and in a month after they checked in, they were first in Iraq and then in Afghanistan and in other countries, as we have our contingents of our Croatian army. There they earned quite a sum of between $5 and $6,000 a month, and I personally know a few who went from Slavonski Brod as drivers as civilians to the American Army in Iraq and later to Afghanistan and around the world. So there are jobs for those abroad, and here we still have the situation as it is with all the work that does not have and the ones that work to say are exploited by employers who are trying to get a profit as soon as possible, personal gain, the personal benefit of actually playing with analogue tachographs, by moving people from truck to bus, from bus to truck or truck to truck, and thus playing positive legal regulations, which would hopefully be such a legal proposal that is perfectly in line with the laws of the EU, the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, that this situation will at least be tempered in some way. The HDSSB club will be for this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104562	Thank you. Replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104563	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Grubisic, you're like me, so we've detected the problems this law speaks of but we have no one to ask where their solution to these problems is. So here we are talking about mandatory vacations of mobile workers, and I've already said in the debate, maybe we should also consider the mandatory vacations of our government workers and have some devices detect them, too, to see how much they work. Because here, they didn't come here and we can't professionally, this is a professional law, there's no politics here. And it's a good thing you brought it up. So, when the accident happens, we're all here. They're going to the TV cameras. They're counting. God forbid they're dead. We're all reacting, which is the cause. That's exactly what this law is talking about, which is the tachograph, the most important device. And we continue to extend the possibility through this law that there is still analogous and that malversion continues to go on. On digital there are also some possibilities but very rarely and very artificially you have to be on it. And now we have no one to ask here. They simply did not deign to come to the Parliament and to say our opinion is that and that. But that's why you have an article in the paper. We know how many unemployed drivers we have on the desk. But the nice paper says go to Canada, there's $49,000 worth of your salary. Here's a solution to your problems. And what some people do on black, they do what you said from the bus, we jump into a truck or from a truck to a truck, so I get a job because it's an employer's instructions. Or some other problem that appears in that system you have no one to talk to. In this way we can talk about every law, there's nobody here in front of the government, we talk nice, we have our own story, and the government can do their job. So this is one moment where we too must ask ourselves what the government's attitude towards us in the Croatian Parliament is really like. What happened to the promoter that he couldn't come here to defend what he wrote in the law, because if this is a model then every next law no one should sit down there, so let's talk to each other alone, and we'll figure something out. And that's how it's going to vote on Friday the way it's going to be. And what have we solved? We'll conclude that we haven't solved anything and that our problems will arise next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104564	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104565	Yes, thank you very much, fellow Boric. I turned around and I think Mr. Antesic was there, but he wasn't there. So it's sad and embarrassing that none of the government's representatives. It is also disrespect, an expression of disrespect for the Croatian Parliament, for MPs who are in a relatively good majority and others in the afternoon debate here. So it wasn't just when they were TV cameras, it was afternoon. So, to all of us, it's actually one course of action. But there's something easier for you than for me and for the others. Namely, you will see for sure Mr. Antesic on Rab this weekend as you are both from Rab, so at least you will have a chance to discuss these analogue and digital tachographs and this legislative proposal if you still have an interest in the law that will be passed on Friday as you have already said. But what worries me more is that the recommendations of our government go all out. We best move the whole of Croatia to England, Ireland, Canada, and I guess we'll be back to emigration as we were. And here, there may be others who want to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104566	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104567	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Time Act, mandatory holidays of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR. 809. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Score. I find that most of the votes are 83 votes in favour, 17 abstentions and 3 against a bill number 809.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104568	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Final draft law amending the Law on collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public provision by insurance companies, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 808. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Labour and Pension System, Honored Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104569	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. In front of you is a draft bill amending the Law on Collection, Processing, Connecting, Using and Exchange of Data on Receipts and Public Givings by Insurance with Final Bill, shortened that JOPPD form that we have introduced with the aim of simplifying administration in the country, and on the other hand, to allow all single-skilled receipts given to workers through that form to be able to see everything that the employer gives to the worker. The law on the collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of data entered into force on 1 January. A new data collection method has been introduced. I note that it has been trying in the last ten years and more to establish this system that connects three very important institutions, which is REGOS, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance with the Tax Administration and unfortunately so far has not been able to connect all these institutions and therefore we have had a large number of forms that employers had to fill out. So this unique pattern replaced a total of 6 forms that previously collected data. Receipt from non-performing labour, income tax and tax, and contributions to compulsory insurance in the month, report on second income, invoiced and paid income tax and tax, and contributions to compulsory insurance, report on paid remuneration, tax on deduction and tax, as well as the specification by insurance on accounting contributions for compulsory pension insurance. In this way, instead of six forms, we made it possible for employers to fulfil with one form the duty they are required to the authorities of the state authorities. So, a year has passed since we introduced a unique pattern and there are significant changes in the quality of the data collected, given the reduced possibility of errors in the data observed by all the institutions in the system that are used. The causes that previously generated non-compliance of data on liabilities kept in registers and records of different institutions have been removed, so we can safely say that the introduction of a unique pattern started a new phase in the establishment of a fast and secure service built for the needs of end-users. This will be seen at the end of this year because based on this form, the Tax Administration has the opportunity to draw up a tax application for each of us. Therefore, you should no longer run to the post office and submit tax returns. So the IRS will be able to do it on its own based on this pattern. This already achieves the goal we set when proposing legislation, which is to ensure that data are collected as easily and as easily as possible and that they are accurate for each insurance company, and what is not less important is that this unique form has a major impact on the increase in public fees as we can see in payments to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, therefore in payments for the pension system which are compared to previous years in the increase. The use of data collected through the JPPD form ensures better availability of data to all institutions in the social security system and... faster and more quality process to exercise insurance rights. In particular, when exercising the right to retire, all the necessary data from the JPY form will be made available to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office in electronic form and it will not be necessary for insurance undertakings to collect additional documentation on the data on which they are subject to their pension insurance rights for the period following the introduction of the JPY form. However, clearly we have tails, that we have discrepancies that were obviously due to the failure of the system itself, and the obligations made before the entry into force of this law were therefore necessary to enable the collection of data through previously established reception channels and software solutions. Therefore, these are the data and software solutions related to REGOS, they are the forms RFM and RSM so that the account and payment bonds of contributions can meet their unexecuted legal obligations. The possibility of using old canals was prescribed in the law by 31 December of last year. It has been shown in practice that this deadline for the implementation of the old obligations was not sufficient and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has extended the time limit for the collection of data by 31 December 2015. Namely, the retention of the existing data reception method for the period prior to the introduction of the JPPD form has been assessed as the simplest and most cost-acceptable for the obligors as well as for all other participants in the system. In this way, it is possible to extend the time limit for fulfilling the obligation by applying the previously developed model and the defined method of delivery or acceptance of the data for another year. In particular, it was taken into account the need to ensure the continued and effective mechanism of the schedule of public contributions paid by insurance undertakings and the spotting of funds on personal accounts to selected mandatory pension funds and their further placement of investments resulting in appropriate financial effects on the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. So that possibility we gave was our only option to ensure that those funds that the employers paid for their insurance companies, so for their employees, is ultimately passed on to their accounts, or to their accounts in compulsory pension funds because these are the funds that are personal resources, are neither the employer nor the state or the Pension Insurance Office, but these are our assets that are in the second pillar. This proposal for a law covers the content of the said Regulation which will allow for the continuity of the REGOS business process relating to the schedule of unconnected contributions for the second pillar of pension insurance for the former periods. The adoption of an emergency law is proposed for particularly justified reasons, since it is a matter of collecting data on contributions to the 2nd pension column, so data intolerance could have implications for the exercise of the rights set out in the 2nd pillar. In relation to the specific collection of data on contributions to the 2nd pillar of pension insurance, it should be noted that the state of unrelated payments according to the REGOS records relating to the state of the temporary account is now significantly, significantly more favourable than it was in previous years. On 31 December 2011, for the period from 2002 to 2011, therefore for 9 years, a total of 163 million 231 thousand 589 kuna unconnected payments were recorded. From that amount to 31 December 2014, REGOS managed to connect these funds to concrete insurance companies of EUR 83 million, 147, 368 kuna and another 2 million, 19 thousand and 31 kuna by 17 March of this year, and for those old periods from 2002 to 2011, a total of 52% of unrelated payments were linked. And on that trail, we will continue to work with the goal of connecting all the funds that have been paid to the insurance company in the second pillar. Out of the total 96 million 560 thousand 288 kuna of new unrelated payments from 2012 recorded in the provisional account of REGOS last December, 68 million 667 thousand 231 kuna and until 17 March 960 thousand 312 kuna totalled 72% of unrelated payments for 2012. Also, from 81 million 933 195 thousand kuna unconnected payments from 2013 to March this year totaled 57% and 45 million 445 thousand and 445 and another 1 million 579 119 thousand kuna. The total amount of related payments from the provisional account in the period from 1 January 2012 to 31.12.014 is 197 million 260 thousand 45 kuna and another 4 million 558 thousand 464 kuna by 17 March, which means that for the period from 2002 to 2013 we have been able to connect 59% of unrelated payments which I consider to be an extremely good success, and we will continue to endure with the new and JPPD forms and the development of control systems and allocations of funds that arrive at Regos. We also expect that thanks to this JPPD pattern of these problems will disappear and will be minimal and will not be in this relationship, with such financial gauges as it has been in recent years especially in the period from 2002 to 2011. And the JPPD form is a powerful tool to see the effects in the following years not only in the area of control, the corresponding payments, but also as a mechanism for the control of contributions to the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104570	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the Đuro Popiè. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104571	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, with your associate, Mr. Vice President. So, at the last point, there was no one at the government's introduction, and here we really have the privilege of listening to the minister who really commended you took the time to come and explain the law that has 3 articles. So, listening to Mr. Minister, I wasn't sure what the law was about, but after the end of his presentation he actually said what this law was talking about, and he was quite useful to say a few sentences about how the implementation of the law had passed, which was defined, which was more than a year in force, and he talked about the great successes that had been achieved by that law because clearly nothing had existed before. It is, of course, a constant of the work of this government, and we're used to it, and I just believe that Mr. Minister will not put on a commercial every morning as I hear from his colleague where he only advertises on all the media and on the expense of taxpayers. Therefore, this law spoke of a regulation, i.e. a regulation already in force for three months and it says that something which was worth 31 December 2014 is changing by 31 December 2015. The second article is that this Regulation is no longer applicable. So, in 23.12.2014, the Government adopted a regulation with one article, and let me remind you last week we discussed a law that had passed a regulation of 49 articles, much more serious and much stronger, and one and the other seemed to have no reason to be brought in particular here because if the government had assumed such information as the minister said that something had not been brought into line then it could have been brought to the regular procedure of the assembly session during the 12 months as well. But more or less we have a law that is obviously technical, it will be voted on Friday and will change something that was worth until 31 December of last year and is valid now, therefore, because it has been amended by the end of this year. You provided information to the ministers that something was terribly problematic because it was not harmonised from 2002 to 2011. I don't know what that year was supposed to be when it worked, and what was the efficiency of Regos himself when you mentioned it, but all those involved in the fact that what was left failed to coordinate and we see that there is still harmonisation. In technical terms, it's also natural. I remind you that in 2002, a second pillar of pension insurance was introduced and that it was one of the few, perhaps even the only serious reform project that was in 25 years, not to say now some other things that were much more difficult, but in terms of substantial change carried out in just over a year and a half with complete preparation and production of software that was made in a domestic arrangement by organising and enrolling over a million users, mega-project. But after that, obviously nothing worked anymore, so they accumulated such problems that now, thanks to this pattern, they finally began to solve what was not even far from true. Why and why there has been a discrepancy, there are probably many reasons for that and for the debtor himself, probably also in the system and they will always exist and will always have to be solved. So probably in stalking and implementing this pattern, which is a good solution. That's what we supported. And of course, by evaluation, development and technology, by developing communication opportunities, by improving the work of the users themselves, there must be some change and some shifts in all this. Well, what if you didn't do anything about it? This is well done, surely it brings significant benefits both to the economy and to the people who work and also to the control of the payment of public obligations and the receipt of workers by employers. I would, of course, like to believe that the system would continue to develop and it was possible to implement and develop it only at the time when a unique identification number was finally implemented, so a personal identification number, without it would also not be possible to implement this. So there's not much more to add. The law confirms the regulation. This change will be worth it by the end of this year. Now, if there's not enough time to comply again, then they'll probably follow a new regulation, and again some harmonisation, but the question is whether we've made a quality assessment of the time needed for the full implementation of everything that the Data Collection Act itself has asked for, whether we've done a better analysis and estimated enough time for these changes to be carried out. I don't think there's any particular reason why this law shouldn't be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104572	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative Vanja Posavac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104573	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the honourable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the adoption of a proposal for a law amending the law on collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public procurement by insurance companies. The provision of Articles 18(1) and (2) of that Law enables the accounting and payment of contributions for compulsory insurance to be submitted by means of previously established and developed channels, the acceptance of data and software solutions by means of a law prescribed by insurance undertakings and subsequently fulfil their previously unfulfilled legal obligations. Namely, why this is important, because it is the basis for connecting to the relevant data on the payment of contributions made to compulsory pension insurance based on individual capitalised savings and the resulting forwarding of funds to the personal accounts of insurance undertakings in selected pension funds. Where such data are not supplied, the possibility of connecting the data on the payment of the mandatory contribution concerned and the retention of the funds paid in a temporary account administered by the central insurance register of Regos shall be affected. This proposed law allows for the extension of the time limit for the fulfilment of that obligation, the submission of data, the application of the previously developed model and the definition of the delivery method, i.e. the acceptance of data for another year. Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia has addressed the problem referred to in the Regulation, it is also proposed to suspend that regulation on the date of entry into force of this law. In the conditions where the obligor has paid the obligation to contribute but has not submitted the forms... Regos cannot link unrelated payments and forward funds to personal accounts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the result is a smaller amount of funds in the personal account and, unfortunately, a smaller amount of pension that is made on the basis of the second pension pillar. A part of the obligor who has not submitted forms has ceased to exist but part is still active and is expected to subsequently submit appropriate forms. This law allows the bonds to submit appropriate forms and fulfil the legal obligation through existing programme solutions in order to result in the already paid contribution of the second pillar of pension insurance which is on the provisional account to be linked to the responsibilities and forwarded to mandatory pension funds. The SDP club supports the adoption of this law by emergency procedure because we consider it to be particularly justified reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104574	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104575	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, with assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDSSB club will also support this legal solution, so the proposal for a law amending the law on collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public transfers by insurance companies with the Final Bill. It is the fact that this legislative proposal confirms the government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation with a view to saying the deadline for the end of this year and whether a regulation will continue to be passed or a new legislative proposal will be passed, so we will see it and it is time for regular parliamentary elections, so it is difficult to expect anything other than a new regulation. What I wanted to point out is that we can be satisfied with the unique pattern called the minister even though we could translate the JOPPD a little bit, so the unique form of information about receipts and givings is connected via either REGOS, HZMO, HZZO with the Tax Administration. That's exactly what we said from this year on and tax will be calculated in the IRS, it won't be necessary to bring documents and tax returns with documents, with receipts of any regular salary, any salary on an act contract, or I don't know what all the receipts are. So the IRS will have all of this information in all the elements of all the receipts. As regards REGOS, therefore, it cannot be said to function and... without the RSRSM form and, in fact, this provision has been made possible, which has now been replaced by law, accounting and payment of compulsory insurance contributions, the extension of the deadline for meeting obligations through previously established and developed data-receiving channels and programming solutions, to submit legally prescribed data by insurance companies and subsequently meet all previously unfulfilled legal obligations that have been met for a time until the adoption of this law. So I won't be longer, so the HDSSB club will be for this law along with a little commendation that this computer program that was established is also through JOPPD, and there's also our old OIB, which is no longer in the field of data secrecy, so these days I need to register the car, one 10 insurance companies inform me that they wouldn't forget to name me, last name, car registration date and my OIB. So they all got information about my OIB, but that's another topic, so I'm not going to talk about it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104576	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I thank the minister, thank all the colleagues who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104577	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public provision by insurance companies, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR. 808. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Score. I find it unanimous with 104 votes for the adopted law P.Z.BR. 808.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104578	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is - Final proposal of the law on the supervision of objects of precious metals, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 805 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah, for a little while. Deputy Economy Minister Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104579	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The basic reason for the adoption of the law is to normably fully regulate the area of control of articles of precious metals and, in particular, technical requirements regarding the degree of purity of the subject of precious metals and the marking and stamping of objects of precious metals by means of a national mark. The relevant Law on the Control of Objects of Noble Metals was adopted and entered into force in 1993 at a time when the economy of the Republic of Croatia began to adapt and operate on the principles of the market economy and when the establishment of the competent central authority of the state administration for the area of precious metals was different from the present. Instead of today's National Institute for Standardization and Measurement, there were 4 institutions: State Institute for Measurement, Croatian Measurement Institute, Croatian Accreditation Agency and Croatian Institute for Standards. According to the above, the adoption of a new law implies that in terms of content, the regulation will cover the same administrative area which norms the applicable Law on the Control of Objects of Noble Metals, but will norm it more precisely in all parts of the Regulations, and extend the existing scope of the rules so that the following basic questions are regulated by law: the field of regulation and definition of key concepts, the part-line of the State Bureau of Measurement in the area of precious metals, the technical requirement for entering the purity of the subjects of precious metals, the labelling and stamping of state stamps, the regulation of payment of the costs for the marking of items of precious metals, the mutual recognition of markings and marks, the conditions of the sale space in which the items of precious metals are exposed, the inspection and the inspection of the provisions, the transitional and the transitional and the final provisions. An important reason for the adoption is the introduction of new concepts and definitions which have so far not been processed as certificates of conformity, signs of conformity, mixed objects of precious metals and other concepts. Furthermore, a detailed inspection of the traffic of articles of precious metals and the definition of the rights and obligations of the manufacturer, or of the supplier of the item of precious metal, is described. The draft law on the control of articles of precious metal with the final proposal for a law has been notified in accordance with the amended Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 June 1998 laying down the notification procedure in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104580	Thank you, Deputy. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy. So the law that survived since '93. In the past century, here is his new version. It's not so tragic that some law is 20 and a few years old, it may be more tragic that the laws we make in one year have changed several times over the year. However, this law has obviously done its part, and circumstances have changed in Croatia, many other acts have been adopted, and the European Union's regulation itself, and we have become a member of the European Union, it also requires that this area be re-regulated. The deputy minister has said what is the essence of the change and this law will now be formulated, and it has also been accepted, so the adoption procedure has passed by the European Commission. Therefore, it is fully harmonised and Croatia enters this world with as much regulation as it does in the EU. Perhaps a little late, given that we have been a full member of the EU for 2 years. Was he supposed to have been changed before? It probably is. And could this law or some other law in some way include problems and all that happened with gold and precious metals where citizens were mass selling their objects of precious metals is really a question. But I believe this law will help to better regulate this area. There are a lot of things that are important in the domain of traffic marking, certification. There are also talk of conditions that must satisfy the premises for sale. However, I did not find another thing, which is the conditions that should be met and the way it can be done, those who buy and do further trade and traffic with items of precious metal, which primarily refer to private persons who advocate or who sell their items for various reasons. Because all it says here is the terms of the sales space. I don't know now whether it's gonna be necessary to regulate in this law or somewhere else. But I think given what is happening in Croatia that we should probably deal with this topic as well. There's nothing special to be said here, technical law and here's no reason not to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104582	I'd like to thank my fellow drinker. In the name of the HNS club, the distinguished Marijan Skvaric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the Bill of Law on the Control of Objects of Noble Metals with the final proposal for the law of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats will support it. In that part, we want to point out a few key things about this law. The first thing is that the existing law has become obsolete and has necessarily been tempered by the fact that it was passed in 1993. And just for example, fines in broken provisions of the existing law are still prescribed in German marks in dinar equivalent. This already speaks enough of the need for a new law as well as any changes that the Republic of Croatia has been through over the past 22 years. And the key change is full membership in the EU, whose internal market and the practice of European countries need to be adapted. Another thing we would like to single out as a key thing, which is that modern and modern law is the prerequisite and full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the International Convention on the Control and Marking of Objects of Noble Metals. In November 2014, the inspection team of the Convention, which carried out inspection controls in the laboratories of the National Bureau of Measurement in order to determine whether we meet all the conditions for access to the Convention in its report, stated under point 68 that this proposal for a new Law on the Control of Objects of Noble Metals was one of the most modern laws in Europe, and praised the activities of the State Bureau of Measurement and Ministry of Economy. I congratulate them on one of these findings and statements. And that report was adopted unanimously at the 10.3.2015 convention in Tel Aviv, which initiated the ratification process of the accession of the Croatian Convention in all Member States of the Convention. What is important is the role of the new law is also, above all, the protection of consumers whose world day has recently been marked on 15.3., which, when buying objects from precious metals marked with the state mark of the Republic of Croatia, has a guarantee of declared purity, and is more precisely regulated by inspection supervision in this law and is made possible by quality market control. Also, the law allows Croatian producers and traders to be subject to traders, objects of precious metals, to a better position on the EU single market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104584	Thank you. Does the deputy want it to be final? There's no need. I'm closing the debate. I thank the deputy and everyone who participated in the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104585	Final proposal of the Law on the Control of Objects of Noble Metals, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.BR. 805. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would ask the Deputy Minister of Economy, Mr. Allen Leveric, to declare Amendment 1 to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104586	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104587	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104588	The amendment is not accepted. Since the obligation to refer to the procedures carried out for nostrification is laid down in Article 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104589	The chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104590	I accept such an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104591	Amendment number two has been withdrawn. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Control of Objects of Noble Metals. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes 100 for and 3 abstentions have been passed by Law P.Z. No. 805 along with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104592	We move to - Status and Management Report for 2013 with financial indicators. It says "supply" here, though. That would mean stockpiles with someone else still running themselves. Well, good. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted a report pursuant to Article 6 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Strategic Stocks Act. You've received the motion for an act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Allen Leveric, Deputy Economy Ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, before you there is a report on the state and management of the supply supply for 2013 from which it is apparent that the State supply operations in the reporting year took place in accordance with the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act, the rules applicable to the budget and budgetary users, and the decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the provisions, the report was published on a regular annual list of strategic stock stocks as of 31.12.2013. The list was carried out at 84 locations in total, and all 84 locations were attended by representatives of the State Inspectorate or authorised employees of the Department of Stocks. Directorate's staff were present at 80 locations, and the State Inspectorate's economic inspectors at 4. The processing of incoming inventory lists compared the real state of the regulations and accounting situation has identified a lack of strategic fuel supply of Lus up to 1% with 11470 kilograms. An administrative solution for returning goods to that location has been issued. Furthermore, from the very report in front of you, it is evident that in the structure of strategic stock stocks in 2013 the highest value is 15 product types, with 25% euro diesel, tents, bags, Polish beds, blankets, bed linen 14%, wheat 11%, meat 10%, masculine 7%, etc. It can also be seen that in 2013 a complete balance of strategic stock supplies was implemented by obtaining goods worth 13.8 million kuna, through an egg powder, wheat, corn, pâté. The purchase of 40 tonnes of flour and 20 thousand litres of oil was also made for the government's decision to grant humanitarian aid to CARITAS. The total revenue and receipts in the reporting year are €27.8 million and total expenditures and expenditures of €26.9 million, and a surplus of revenue and income of €907 000 has been achieved which, with the excess income transferred from earlier years, account for a total surplus of €10 million. On the basis of the report, it can be concluded that a number of activities were carried out in 2013 and the basic characteristics of the business were regular and extraordinary controls of the stock supply situation. The purchase of strategic stocks amounting to nearly 14 million kuna and revenues made from State stock were paid to the single account of the state budget. The emphasis in further business should primarily be placed on the provision of funds for the supply of goods and the filling of the balance sheet of the strategic stock. Furthermore, further modernisation of its own storage space and the continued and gradual detention of the purpose of the devasted storage space in areas of special state care so that it can be leased and the financial resources for the operation of the goods supply itself can be realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104594	Thank you. Indeed, Deputy, ask your assistants to learn how to use instruments and instruments of society so as not to send these things to the Parliament. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Grubisic and Caine, they both signed up but there are none. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104595	Thank you very much, dear fellow Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This is actually a shortened report because the government's department of stock reserves delivers a far wider report to the government, and then it bears a sign of great strict secrecy, and then a short report comes before us from the representatives that hides more than reveals. Stock stores in the Republic of Croatia are still, unfortunately I have to say, a social self-service for some selected and well-determined. Less and less, according to this report, but still that finding is valid because according to this report it was taken from the stock stores to God's purchase, and never paid at this time 381 million kuna. And to what all the supplies were used and how the state was doing business and losing taxpayers' money is an example of wheat in 2004. And that's an integral part of this report. The wheat of the stork in 2004. According to the government's decision, the stockpiles bought the value of the wheat 440 million kuna. And then they sold that wheat for 303 million kuna. So, 137 million already left at the start. They sold it in 2005, 2006, 2007 and charged the cost of saving and selling 76.3 million. These were costs incurred in the stock reserves. So there's 226,7 million left from what was paid to 440. It's 214 million kunas. Today, stocks or stock reserves have obligations under the 2004 wheat loan of 213.2 million kuna. Today, the 213.2 million kuna long-term commitment. How much was the wheat of the stork in 2004? Over 800 million kuna. It would be interesting to get the information on who bought that wheat from a 440-dollar reserve and bought it for 303. Who were the buyers? I also object to the structure of the report because for the first time, Mr. Deputy Minister, in the realized items of income and expenditure, you did not give a plan size but only a realization. And a comparison in 2013 and 2012, if I'm not mistaken. I don't think that's correct from the government to the Parliament that you've left out the planned sizes. So, for example, the revenues have been made at an estimated 27.8 million kuna, how much are they planned? At the beginning of the year or at the end of 2012, the principalship planned and the government probably adopted the plan. From the state budget for stock recovery, 10.6 million were achieved, and how much was planned at the beginning of the year? So, is that 10.6 a plan, a subroutine or a transfer? I would ask you to do future reports as prescribed to give and planned sizes. It's the same with expenses. The purchase, restoration, or renewal of supplies of 13.7 million were made. How much is it planned? In 2012, 33.5 million kuna were spent for the purchase of supplies, therefore only 13.7 million kuna was spent in 2013. And if I'm not mistaken at this point, the value of the stock is somewhere around 337 million. This includes food products and all other equipment and means of supply, 337 million kuna. Experts who had been doing this for years estimated that the value of the stock would satisfy the function of why they were set up should be between a billion and 100 billion and 300 kuna. From year to year, the value of the goods stock in the stock drops, especially strategic stock stocks. For rents and rents in 2013, 3 million kunas were spent, in 2012, that was 2.1 million. So in order to keep 337 million kunas worth of stock, 3 million kuna along with our own warehouses, the rent and rent are still paid for most of the 3 million kuna warehouses. Is that what we pay for empty or half-empty warehouses, every year the amount that grows. According to the report, the accumulated surplus income from earlier years including in 2013 is slightly more than 10 million and will be used in this year for stockpiling and investing in its own warehouses, improving storage conditions. I'm sorry it's not again, and we're not going to get another report on how much to fill the stock and how much to invest in the storage capacity, I'd be interested in the inventory of the rented warehouses and used their own warehouses and how many state warehouses were placed in the lease that remained empty after the change in the stock structure? And I know there's a large amount of squares in the rent. The demand from 31.12.2013 is therefore 381 million kuna for what someone should have paid for the goods. Another 10.1 million has been registered as non-refundable claims, so that in 2013 about 400 million kunas have fallen to the sword. Who came to this social self-service we call supply? Adrian Kaštel Sucurac 6.4, BEDJA Ludbreg 23 million, DINARKA Knin 5.9, Djevereska 3.9. ELMOS, ELMO Kelemen, ESEKER Zagreb 4.9, I read only the purchase of goods, not those that were warehouses, where there was a deficit of 2, 3 million and more in goods, oil, mahout, diesel, wheat and more. FREMIR Zagreb 4.4 million, LIVANA Darda 2.6 million purchases, OLMA Makarska 4.2 million purchases, PZ Orlić Markovac 14.5 million purchases, Agricultural Cooperative Zlatar 14 million purchases, TRAGO Mikulić 5.3 million refurbishing stock and interest on that, ZAM Zagreb 17.8 million purchases. Who were the owners of these companies that I just read about that came into the supply supply with the tow truck, drove the goods when they sold and never paid? What are these people and who are the owners, these people own companies today that are? When you make that link, then you realize how some great Croatian rich people were made, some of them were even rewarded by them that I read as successful entrepreneurs for years from Golden Bears to Golden Kuns, Capricorns and birds of singers received awards. Now it's clear from this report how. The truth is that most of these social customers are already around 2000, 2003, but then the debtors who ended up in bankruptcy because of the shortages as warehouses or special decisions of the government were given goods from the stock stores. So there's a point here that 12 million, 12.2 million when it comes to the wheat and oil decisions of the government in 2013 but we don't know who it is, whose benefit it went to, who got it out of it? So it remains my claim that this report is more hidden than revealed and only what was revealed could no longer be hidden was not charged and the process started there in 2003, 2004, when there was a lot of pressure on the supply directory to instead, and I assure you that it was true as a supply for the return or payment of the goods that the vehicle from the stock stores was provided by the customer as photographs of its houses which he had in Croatia and when it came to the end of the real estate then it was found that they were the neighbors' houses and buildings that were given as a guarantee of payment. Therefore, such guarantees were accepted in stock stocks at their own time. The stock situation is 337, 3 million, I said well before, of which 138.3 million agricultural food products and I see that by the government's decision the storage of cereals was transferred to the Agriculture Payment Agency last year 2013. And non-food products 194.1 million. These data show that there is a day and a structure in percentage because, as a discovery of the amount of goods, it would be a break-in of major state secrets, you can think of 330 million goods in state supplies is a state secret, so that information cannot be given to the parliamentary representatives. Didn't the time come to redefine the role of stock? For the $337 million we have on stockpiles, we spend 30 million a year. These are the management costs of the warehouse and everything. So 10% of the stock value is actually cost per year and even more than that. If we give up the concept of stock supplies that satisfy their function as a natural disaster, severe disturbances and interventions of protection and rescue. Then stock supplies must have more than a billion kuna worth of goods. If that concept is given up then what is now on stock for that money or half that money will be guarded by merchants. And in the event of a need, they deliver to the state, and they would save it, but they would also avoid this situation entirely if there were major shortages in warehouses operating from the service, ending up in bankruptcy and cannot be charged at all. And secondly, in the sale of supply supplies, customers do not behave as in the social self-service but carry out their obligations to state supplies. The entire structure and establishment of the stock supply as prescribed today is created and based on a billion and 200 million kunas of stock. We're in a quarter of it today. Did we cut to a quarter of the administrative device that runs the stock? No, we didn't. And if only those 10 million own funds achieved as surpluses from earlier years and in 2013 went into stockpiling in 2014, it is a further reduction, a quantity of supplies and indeed a question of what they are doing more. I will not support the report because it has been shortened and no data have been given from which the full state could be seen to the end but the Government has passed on to the Parliament approximately less than 25% of the report contained in the original.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104596	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Marijan Škvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104597	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, so here's the question you raised about this report, that is, when you laid the basis for the debt to the commodity stock that why and who is in the interest that this part of the claim that has been made can't be disbursed to the end. It's been showing here that we really have since '97. by 2010, most of these claims. Only one thing on this is that in 2010 or something older. And the amount is indeed enormous 376 million kuna. And most of all you think about what for? And the state's attorney's office and the police and all these obvious things that are because there's both enforcement and criminal charges and bankruptcy that are not in the interest of getting rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104598	The answer to the line of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104599	If I understand you correctly, ask me or myself why it doesn't clear up. So it's really not about small amounts. You see, I asked that question somewhere in 2004 when I was appointed by the Parliament to the board of directors as they were called, a council or something because for the first time we managed to get them to come with all the data. In fact, it was for the first time that the report was even given four years ago because this report did not even appear before the Parliament for four years. When you see a year of debt, the basis of the creation of debt, and the measures taken to pay for it, you understand or see in each item the report writes to the office, bankruptcy, execution, bankruptcy, criminal application. For no object, this is now reduced to 30 biggest debtors. In the first report that we were able to exorcise the debt list at the time, it was 6 pages, 870 million. No one ever got an answer to a question that bothers both you and me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104600	On behalf of the HDSSB club, respected Boro Grubisic reported. He's gone, the club's losing its right to debate. On behalf of the HNS club Marijan Skvarić, please join us for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104601	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the 2013 report on the state and management of commodity supplies with financial indicators, first of all when we define what goods supply services are for and when we read that the law states that strategic stockpiles are to be created for the provision of basic supplies at a time of war or immediate threat, independence, uniqueness and survival of the Republic of Croatia, and in the case of major natural disasters and technical technological and environmental disasters. Stock supplies can also be used to provide urgent assistance to other countries in case of disasters, humanitarian aid and in case of participation of the Republic of Croatia's forces in peace and humanitarian operations abroad and also in the domestic part. Stock stocks cannot be used to remove disturbances and instability on the market. And when we read what should be the use of the stock, then really what we have defined in the debates in a way that if they are used badly, they do not plan well that it can already come to a national threat that we do not also talk about crime. And yes, that's what happened because when we watched this report on stock exchange management, there was everything. And this report in 2013 can only be discussed, but we must draw some conclusions from that. The conclusions are that at this point and what we have mentioned in basic debt there are, in particular, more than 376 million kunas that have not been defined and which have indeed been carried over over a number of years a year as some kind of obligation. As we see what positive legal measures and other actions are, that largely they are given into the business but they are in bankruptcy, and we know that from good experience... it would be best to just wipe things off the balance sheet and absolutely never come to a charge. If we are talking about 376 million kuna, then what we have said in this report must be a certain conclusion in the future that this must never happen to us in any form at all. And that, if we see here that the last measure was in 2010, I did not find a later year apart from the Karlovac heat plant in 2012, bankruptcy, criminal application, when a loan was made under the decision of the Republic of Croatia or given to a heat for heating oil, and it will also never be charged or won, but what I think is a good thing, is that it is very much appreciated the value, the importance of supply supplies, after all, that we have to comply with the law. If that was the part of all these years, nobody should have cared about it, what we said to the state's attorney's office and to the police and other bodies in charge, and we know who was then in power, and then, unfortunately, with the tragedy, we can say that this is a huge loss for the whole of Croatia, and perhaps for some part, we are in these difficult recession times today. When we talk about the value structure of the strategic stock by product types, he would not list in that part. However, in this report, however it may be read, but I would like to mention some of the things that I know from experience that the problem is, or stab me in the eye. First of all, these are multi-purpose auto-cisteries, where the conclusion is that, first of all, by giving these goods and equipment, they are essentially on the use of voluntary fire companies, public fire departments are increasing their equipment and preparedness for faster interventions that can prevent accidents of larger scales, fires and floods. I'd really like to know where all these auto-cisteries were, I think they were over 20 in this report that we knew that one of those same tankers was driving to DVDs, they were taking pictures, they were talking to certain people in charge, and then they were also used for what they shouldn't, because maybe the big ones were tanks, and 5,000 liters of more were given to smaller voluntary fire companies that never used them, and at the same time the big A-categorys could never get any such equipment. I'm talking about how in the future this equipment needs to be arranged for a good argument, how and how this equipment must be given to someone. I don't think that tanker can be given some kind of DVD C category, and let's say some A categories didn't deserve it and deserved it. I think just one example, the eclative example we've talked about and the use of... in the context of the supply supply and the use of this equipment that needs very, very much to be defined there. It is, of course, related to the conclusion that, in particular, what I would like to point out is that the Department of Stocks has given a special emphasis on the choice of warehouses, reducing the number of warehouses, selecting quality companies and measures to protect state assets, has reduced the possibility of alienating goods and disrupting its quality. So maybe it's that this government, however, this ministry in that part, is very much based on this experience as we've been going through with these stockpiles back over 10 years, we've been looking at now that there's not so much... there's actually not one. We hope that next year, in the 2014 report, we will be able to conclude that there are no more such estrangements or that the measures taken are adequate measures to prevent estrangement, sales, but also any abuse of both materials and equipment from supply. And yes, we hope that this will not only be a controversial case, but it will be a very well-defined good practice. And, of course, it also states in the conclusion that there is a storage of goods, only to be checked by legal persons who have to meet clearly defined storage conditions and criteria, for example. the appropriate... material, and also the emphasis is that you should provide evidence of a stable financial business of the company as an instrument for the insurance of goods, bianco bonds, debtors with a clause, bail payer etc., although it does not say that it is some guarantee but is a good try. And especially once again, it is the responsibility of all of us, especially the ministry and all the services, that what is said to be at our disposal at the moment we need these strategic stock reserves. I think that for the past year, the stock reserves responded very well to that part of the problem we had about the flood in Slavonia, and I think that they are largely responsible for the relief of the tragedy by delivering goods and materials and strategic supplies. We hope from this report in 2014 that we will create a good conclusion and act responsibly towards the management of the stock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104602	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the Đuro Popiè. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104603	Thank you again very much, Vice President. So before us is the 2013 report on the state and management of stock stocks with financial indicators. Already fellow predecessors have said whether this structure and this manner of reporting of the Croatian Parliament are good enough, quality and at the very level that the Croatian Parliament should discuss, draw conclusions and get some insights into certain states, and it seems to me that I am the title of the State and Management Report primarily and does not correspond to the content of this document itself, which is very limited and relatively modest in the amount of information and data that it provides. Most of it, however, is presented here in terms of financial indicators, and about the state, model and mode of management of the commodity stock actually very little or almost nothing. We should probably think about it, and we should probably also make such decisions that the next such report should probably be a report on the work of the State Department of Stocks, so that we have complete information on how they are essentially planned, on the basis of which the assessment documents take place on strategic stockpiles and how these stocks are managed and how they experience some kind of their own and activation when it comes to this need. Namely, the document says, this report is about stockpiles but the law itself speaks of strategic stockpiles. I believe it's one and the same thing, that this is talking about strategic stock supplies the way the law itself defines. Why are they formed, and why should they serve strategic commodity supplies? Therefore, strategic stockpiles are created to ensure basic supply in times of war or direct threat to independence, unity and survival of the Republic of Croatia and in the case of major natural disasters and technical and technological and environmental disasters. Here is a very short and clearly precise statement and what strategic stockpiles are for. However, on the basis of which and on the basis of which indicators and on which needs, the degree of threat to these two key elements are formed. I think that we are not closely following the current developments, that is, anything that follows or should be followed in some stock estimates, but we are mostly limited to existing mechanisms probably older than 20 or 30 years and we are going through some cliché and some framework that allows financial conditions. Is that 380 million, is that a billion 200 or anything else. This cannot be drawn from the sleeves, but should all be a basis of really one quality analysis, a need that must meet the assessment of the appropriate threats. So either the issue of war, whether it's a matter of elemental disasters, natural disasters, and then we see that, in fact, at certain times and the supply itself, very weak or bad, or almost in no way respond to such events. And I don't think I can agree with the predecessor who said the goods just played a key role. No, unfortunately not. The key role was played by the Red Cross, Caritas and others, and the goods stock with its intervention in the floods that you have seen and mentioned either late or insufficiently engaged in the activation of your resources. And stock supplies in their potential have everything they needed back then, but we'll probably discuss the 2014 report in which it was managed exactly in such an event for which all the stock supplies were established, why they exist. And in stock stores there are all boats and tanks and aggregates and water pumps and mobile hospitals and housing containers. Nothing or most of them were engaged in the field by supply supplies or mobile kitchens. We know which moving kitchens and when they were engaged. So this is exactly the issue of governance itself, and I believe that it takes one full redefinition of all of this and one more quality way of preparing itself. After all, I would say directly under the responsibility of the entire government and finally finally the prime minister. The Ministry of Economy is now in this case according to the new structure by side. So there's the State Department, which is directly responsible for the Prime Minister himself. So all that's said here is something can and may seem relevant and useful to see what it is now. There's no secret about anything, because 380 million kunas can be seen to be the value of those supplies. We see here in the table that I don't know sugar 3%, corn 3%. Well, I guess it's very easy to figure out how many tons of anything. So there's no longer any secrecy of di and what and at what level or height there is. So I think it's this way and reporting, but also the basis for any serious debate already out of time and space, and we really did it year by year, and in my time we're looking at this table on page 12 where the data is continuously repeated 15 years old that something and some kind of long 376 million. He's nominally like that. So there's no if we want to talk about... interest, there's nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is more pointless to state in terms of the debate on the state and the management and ultimately and the current financial nature of the business of the goods supply itself. It would be much more useful and more important in the Croatian Parliament to discuss the circumstances for the formation of supply supplies, in the end what is assumed in terms of these threats and then in the budget at the end of each subsequent period, have a better approach to it rather than how much money remains in the budget, and then also to calculate whether to buy a few kilos of curuse, wheat, salt, or whether or not I know what it is still manages in a way like boredom. I think the only report is at the level here that we can take it into consideration, and for 2013 we talk about the state of the stock supply it's not just last year's snow but ancient history. We are interested in what the situation is and how it is managed and how the potential for not giving God a new natural disaster in the future will be activated and what we can expect from the entire supply system itself to react properly and perform the function for which it is actually financed, for which serious funds are allocated from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104604	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104605	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my dear colleague, I have indeed said with an argument that the goods stocks were practically and very much involved in the resolution of that tragedy, the catastrophes that have kind of hit our Slavonia since the flood. But maybe it's because they didn't even hear from them, they just did it. Here, there's a report saying that stock supplies were immediately, practically within a few hours of the request of the State Department for Protection and Rescue directed food and equipment to provide the population and operational forces and hired them to protect and rescue them. They actively delivered the food and equipment needed to supply the population and the operational forces throughout 2014 and delivered more than 25 million kuna supplies for this. Stock stocks also took over most of the donated goods to the flooded population from the Republic of Croatia as well as the acceptance of foreign donations. The reaction of strategic stockpiles in the catastrophic flood last year was a real challenge for workers in the supply office as well as their warehouses. But they answered that challenge absolutely. I mean, really, at every moment of every man's life, what's been done to them... they've done everything. And maybe it's a mistake for people who secretly do their job extremely well without anyone paying attention to them. If they had problems, if they hadn't done a good job, everyone would have dealt with them. That's why they're so responsible. 25 million kunas of goods is not a small thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104606	Djuro Pupil, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104607	Thank you very much. Of course, I had no intention of demeaning or reducing the role of stockpiling, rather than saying that the insolence and reaction of the government itself was obvious and sloppy at the end of the day. So the greatest burden and ultimately what happened after the government itself is the incredible pressure and guilt and responsibility began to shift to someone who had no or no connection but not in such circumstances and with such a role. So, we have also witnessed the media and statements of some ministers that most of the responsibility for non-functioning has been transferred to the Red Cross. I mean, which is not the role of the Red Cross as it is, like, slave supplies or centres like this, or I don't know the government itself in that context. Of course, I am the mechanism of supply and what was in there that it was activated but I would say that it was more of a consequence of these people who, fortunately, were probably still in that system and were still working but primarily what was the government itself and in what way it did it was not at the level of need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104608	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104609	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My dear colleague, you somehow wanted to get through your discussion this easily, so you don't have to mention some 200 million more of what my colleague Lesar was talking about why they would talk about some old debt, etc. Well, that's the way you, as HDZ Government in 2004, actually managed the stock reserves in 2006. We bought expensive, sold cheap, made a difference, and now let's erase it so we don't mention it anymore, right? However, it was observed by a respected colleague that you tried to do so but it won't pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104610	Djuro Pupil, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104611	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. To us, in 1999 123 million, some example Zagreb 2000. ... '95. A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I don't know if I'm going to find any of them since 2004, here's the misery in 2004, 2005. All mostly and that's Mr. Lesar and he said by the year 2000, whatever it is now. Of course it's not. But if you want to make one document with everything that you and Mr. Lesar asked for so let him write down all the wicked, dishonest, and what kind of stockpiles to do. But it has nothing to do with the state and management of the stock for 2015. That's what I expect, how will this system work in the future? If you want to deal with all these 280 million numbers, ask for some kind of document, somebody do it and let's discuss it for eight days. It's probably gonna help a lot. But it really doesn't contribute to any better quality and better consideration and ultimately help the government itself and the State Directorate to be what it's supposed to be for tomorrow, and these are strategic stock supplies for war cases and natural disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104612	Dragutin Lesar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104613	A fellow drinker, on the assessment of the required value or quantity of stock supplies that I mentioned from a billion to a billion, and 200 did not run out of sleeves, but about the following year, the work plan for 2006 was being worked out, and then the department of supply told us that it was planning for 2006 to restore stock supplies and increase to the required billions and 100 million kuna at that time, and then each year the reduction of the item in the state budget that should have been provided for raising the quality of the stock, by the way, was then 830 million,830. And that's why I said that if the 337 million concept is enough then we need to change the way they're managed because it doesn't need to be put on the market property through storage facilities anymore. So the experts who ran the system gave that assessment. Whether we should review that assessment or it is done but we don't know it's a different thing now, but it obviously prevailed on the concept that we have minimum minimum minimums in stock and most often the needs that are given on the ground are solved by means of money, it's bought quickly and then intervened with them because what needs to be done in the supply supply supply itself is not there or about such a condition as these beds, sheets and pillows were then tobaccod in stock in 2005, tobacco in goods stocks in unnecessary function.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104614	The Djuro Drinker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104615	I think we're completely in agreement here, so here's the apology I didn't know on what that assessment was made on then from a billion to 200, if that's how she is exactly what you're confirming what I think she's supposed to be doing. So, on what basis is it estimated that now it needs 380 million? There's nothing, so probably just budget limits dictate what we're going to put in that position and nod with it as we know it, that's a fact. That's not how it's managed, so this document can't be called management because it doesn't say anything about governance, based on what it was then a billion and 200? You said, "Thank God there was some sort of assessment that reflected some other assessment of the needs of the potential." Now it's 10 years behind this, if we have indirect war threats, estimates, we see what's going on with the climate, what's going to happen here, and what are the potential dangers and needs to intervene the goods supply towards the population to mitigate these consequences. Here, I think we're completely in agreement here, and it's important to change everything together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104616	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104617	Thank you, esteemed vice president, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In recent years, therefore, we have witnessed the importance of strategic stockpiles because in the conditions of major elemental disasters we use to help the population but also strategic stockpiles are not only important from this social and humanitarian aspect, they also reduce the dependence of the economy on market disturbances but contribute and strengthen the defence system of the state. This report shall contain, or display, income and expenditure and financial results and shall display the claim and liability as the most important forms of assets and sources of funds. Of course, the most important problems in the business of stockpiles have been detected, but what is not good is that they are not given, or quality solutions are not offered for their mitigation or for full elimination. Incomes were made in the amount of €27.8 million and expenditures amounting to €27 million. The expenditure was almost halved compared to 2012 due to the drastically reduced supply of strategic stock supplies. Therefore, in 2012, the expenditure on strategic stock stocks amounted to 33 million while in 2013, as much as 60% were reduced, i.e. only 13.7 million kuna. And because of this strong reduction in the supply of strategic stock reserves or supplies, therefore, because of the absence of this one regular renewal, it is also important to change the financial outcome of the 2013 business. In 2013, therefore, a positive result was achieved from nearly a million kuna, which, together with the surplus of earlier years, amounts to over 9 million kuna. In contrast, in 2012 there was a loss in the business amounting to 17 million kuna, but it was also compensated by a transferable surplus from earlier years amounting to as much as 26 million kuna, so that the final financial result was positive for 2012 and amounted to 9 million kuna. The very clever data in this report are about inventory deficits. The inventory was thus carried out in the report by 64 warehouses and found to be less than 11 thousand and 470 kilograms of LUS fuel. The truth is, I don't know what LUS fuel is personally, so I'd like to find out. Personally, I have a great deal of experience with the annual list of assets, and it's actually very hard to believe that there was no longer any difference between the accounting situation and the real situation in the warehouse. But what is most intriguing in my view in this report is data on claims and data on stock reserves as the most important forms of property and resources. That data actually doesn't change from year to year, so it's actually a report that works according to the copyright-pass principle. On 31 December 2013, the claims amounted to more than 381 million kuna, some less than a third of the total claims being claims from customers. Unfortunately, we can't find out who did this and who didn't. And another third refers to interest on customers due to the untimely settlement of debts to commodity supplies. So these two figures, in particular the amount of tight interest, say that they were irresponsibly managed by stock stocks in the previous years, and my predecessors said a lot about it. This finding further strengthens the obligation that the total liabilities of the stock reserves on the last day of December 2013 amounted to 214 million kuna, with 213 million or 99% referring to loans to foreign banks. So the stock reserves are in charge of stock financing and they don't charge their claims. The company search shows that most of these claims are over 10 years old and over, so we have an example of Nama 123 million kuna from 1999 and then Klas, Nova Gradiška 64 million from the '97-2000 period. Then Miserable Ludbreg 23 million from 2000, etc. So there are claims from '91, '94. and '95. A year. What's bad is that the vast majority of these companies are in bankruptcy, which means that the billability of these claims is very questionable, I would personally say zero. So the state and the taxpayers lost a huge amount of money through the supply system, and it's obviously a segment that's crying out to bring order into it at last. And finally, I initially pointed out the importance of strategic commodity stocks especially in the context of frequent elemental disasters and, therefore, it is unclear and unacceptable to cut strategic stock stocks in 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104618	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Leftists, a colleague, Slavko Linic, was to speak, is not present, and the club loses the right to debate on this point. We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Damir Rilje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104619	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am also to say a few words about the 2013 report on the state and management of stock stocks with financial indicators is that we are talking about it in 2015, but the fact is that through this report we can still see the direction and way of managing and working the supply directory even if there are some open issues that may need to be talked about. In fact, according to the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act, the rules applicable to the budget and budget users and government decisions, the report mentioned. I would therefore remain strictly on this report and, in fact, the law mentioned above, certain strategic stockpiles are created to secure basic supplies at a time of war or direct threat or independence, uniqueness and survival of the Republic of Croatia, and in the case of major natural disasters and technical, technological, ecological disasters. Stock supplies can be used to provide emergency assistance to other countries in case of disasters, humanitarian aid and in case of participation of the Republic of Croatia forces in peace and humanitarian operations abroad. Stock stocks cannot be used to remove disturbances and instability on the market. It is well noted that in the structure of the strategic commodity stock, the highest value is 15 product types, 98% of the total stock while the other products account for only 2% of the total stock. The highest value is euro diesel fuel 25%, tents, bags and Polish beds, blankets, sheets, pillows and pillows 14, wheat 11, meat 10%,... I think lush oil is 7%,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Super 95 and 98, meat fish and other cans of 6%, jet fuel 4%, multi-purpose autocister, sugar and corn at 3% and other strategic goods of 2%, and milk and milk processing 1%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Something about a department store. What can be read from this report by 21 December 2011 by the Directorate of Stocks is set up as an administrative organisation within the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and by the basis of the Law on the Establishment and Circumstance of the Ministry and other central bodies of the State Administration, the Directorate of the Stocks Department of 22 December 2011 continues its business as an administrative organisation in the composition of the Ministry of Economy. The State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 shall include revenues for special purposes and revenues from the sale of non-financial assets of the supply directory in the state budget as well as the expenditure paid by them. The Director's Office for Stock Stocks is obliged to pay revenue for special purposes and income from non-financial assets to a single bank account of the Treasury. Thus, the financial result of the operation and management of the stock in 2013. In 2013, total revenues were made, total revenues were estimated at €27.8 million, 3% less than in 2012 and total expenditure in 2013 was €26.9 million and 41% less than in 2012. The Director's Office for Stocks achieved revenues and receipts in 2013 amounting to 27.8 million, and the proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets were made in the amount of HRK 3.5 million and represent revenues from the sale of stock supplies and this payment of claims from earlier years. The operating incomes are reached in the amount of 24.3 million and account for 87.3% of total revenues. For the financing of operating expenditure from the budget, funds amounting to €9.8 million have been allocated, and expenditure on the purchase of non-financial assets of HRK 10.7 million. Incomes for special purposes have been achieved in the amount of EUR 3.8 million. Business expenditures amounted to $12.9 million, which is higher by 6.6% compared to the previous year. The increase was due to higher material expenditure for official travel, rental services and intellectual and other services. It is important to note that the costs for the purchase of non-financial assets were incurred in the amount of €13.9 million, of which the costs for the purchase of long-term assets were generated in the amount of €170 000, and the costs for the purchase of strategic goods supplies were more than halved, i.e. in the amount of HRK 13.7 million, which represents a significant reduction compared to the year 2012 when €33.4 million was achieved. Something about the value of the stock in 2013. On the basis of the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act, the Accounting Act, the Budgetary Accounting and Accounting Regulation and the Act of the Economy Minister of 4 November 2013 established the procedure for commitments and deadlines in connection with the implementation of the annual list of strategic stocks. As of 31 December 2013, the Central Commission for the Annual Full List of Funds has carried out an annual list, an inventory of goods of strategic commodity stocks, warehouses and equipment for small inventory of financial assets, claims and liabilities. In addition to the inventory committees of the legal representative of the warehouse company, representatives of the State Inspectorate and officials of the Department of Stocks also participated in this annual inventory. The Commission found, after taking into account the complete documentation, that a total of 74 inventory lists and records were processed on the implementation of the annual census with a total of 64 legal persons of the storekeepers of strategic stockpiles and that of the 84 locations where the goods, equipment, so 100% of the location, equipment and real estate were present next to the inventory commission of the warehouses, the employees of the Department of Stocks at 80 locations, and the economic inspectors of the State Inspectorate at 4 locations. The comparison of the real state established in the list for the state of the goods accounting of the directory established the inventory of deficits on the edges of the strategic stock, fuel... 1%, 11470 kg and an administrative solution for returning goods for 30 days has been issued. In the structure of the stock supply, the strategic stock is 99% and the market stock is 1%. The total value of goods, goods stocks, strategic and marketable on 31 December 2013 was 333.4 million, which was 1.9% more than in 2012 and for the reasons of the purchase of goods and wheat, corn, chicken pâté, powdered eggs, and the value of the warehouse was 110.4 million kuna, which was 3.19% less compared to the value of its own warehouse last year for the purpose of calculating the value of the asset. The strategic stock stocks on 31 December 2013 amount to 328.8 million kuna and are higher by 7.51%) compared to 2012 for the reasons for the purchase of goods. The market stocks on 31 December 2013 amount to 4.8 million kuna and are higher than in 2012 by 16.17% for reasons of changes in the packaging of medicines or price differences. Something about the 2013 stock exchange. It is visible from the 2013 report that the full balance of strategic stock supplies was carried out by the purchase of goods worth 13.8 million kuna, so it mainly refers to eggs, wheat, corn, chicken pâté, purchases of 40 tonnes of flour and 20,000 litres of oil for the purpose of realising the Government's decision on the granting of humanitarian aid to Caritas. In the report, the specific emphasis on the level of the claim and the obligation of the claim relate to the year of all commitments until 2000, i.e. in 2003, most of the time until 2000, is the result of the previous state supply law which provided so-called ‘requirement’. Marketable stocks and participation of the directory in sowings and purchases resulting in those outstanding claims, as well as commitments. In a transparent manner, the report gives a list of debtors' companies with their debt levels, the year of their debt creation, and the legal and other actions undertaken. It is evident that some of these claims are the result of former government decisions, and the irrationality of these decisions has become real with a time-out. Every government decision is legitimate and probably made in good faith, but it is evident that it has not proved to be good in the long term in assessing and managing the goods reserves of the Republic of Croatia. This issue should be given special attention, as otherwise the functioning of the Republic of Croatia in the area of supply use may be at stake. Some of these examples are Đakovština, Nama, Toplane Karlovac and others. It is noticeable that the bank's guarantees and pledges to continue in the past few years are being negotiated in order to ensure the return of goods. The specific emphasis should be given on further resolution and reduction of the claim as well as the obligation. The emphasis in further business should primarily be placed on providing significant means of supplying goods and filling the balance sheet in order to be able to react in the legal situations envisaged. It is particularly important and visible to the role of stock stocks in last year's floods when stock stocks from the first day... were included in cooperation with the State Protection and Rescue Authority and were still included as with other institutions in supplying and supplying the population and operating forces that participated in the flooded area. In order to ensure the future, there is a need for further fill-in of the strategic stock stocks precisely for goods that can be intervened in situations such as this year's floods, but also for a better assessment of the functioning of the supply system. I support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104620	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report Friday. Report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2013, with financial indicators. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Economic Committee as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The 2013 report on the state and management of the stock supply, with financial indicators, is accepted.". Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 80 for, 14 abstentions and 8 against, have accepted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104622	We move to a/ Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency and b/ Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency The Proposer of the Decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 11. The law on Croatia reports to the news agency. You've received the motion for an act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, and the motions for a decision will be explained by the Deputy Culture Minister Mr Berislav Šipus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104623	Dear Madam Vice President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We would like to inform you that a member of the Governing Council of Croatia, the news agency Mrs Gordana Simonovic, resigned on 16 December 2014 at the office of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. In accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 22 January 2015, the Ministry of Culture announced a public invitation to appoint a member of the HINA Management Council from the media experts. At that public call, the Ministry of Culture received exactly three applications from candidates submitted within a certain public call. All three applications shall contain evidence of the fulfilment of the conditions of the candidate for appointment of a member of the Governing Council of HINA. After considering the applications of all candidates, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out at the meeting held on 5 March 2015 a proposal for a decision to appoint Vladimir Lulic as a member of the Governing Council of HINA from the media expert's order, and a proposal for a resolution of the member of the Governing Council of HINA Mrs Gordana Simonovic from 16 December 2014 on a personal request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104624	Does the Committee's representative want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Sunčana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104625	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I can see there's an extraordinary interest in this subject. However, I will remind you that the Croatian Democratic Community Club has been talking about this issue for more than a year and that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest 28 June 2013 also called on Mrs Gordana Simonovic to resolve the situation of simultaneous conduct of two public duties within 15 days of receiving the Commission's opinion. I would like to remind you that when we appointed members of the Council for Electronic Media, we warned that Mrs Simonovic is already a member of the Governing Council of HINA and that she cannot conduct two duties at the same time. As everything goes quickly to our government, so is this, so in 2015 we finally get on our benches and in the Croatian Parliament to solve this case. So obviously, the Committee for Conflict of Interest is not some body that is highly feared by members of the ruling coalition, and if it is tried by the indifferences that we witness every day, it is nothing foreign to them, so we do not have to be surprised by this situation. Of course, as well as half, I don't know which times when it comes to the Ministry of Culture's portfolio, there is no minister, Mr. Shipus is a very dear guest to us, so at least he comes. But this was a very modest explanation and we didn't get into the measure of things. However, what we may be able to get an answer to, and in addition to warning about this situation which was absolutely unacceptable and unsustainable, we have also warned of another situation that will happen to HINA, which was when the 2015 budget was voted, i.e. the 2016 and 2017 projection of the state budget, where HINAs were not in the budget projections. We wondered why, is this the end of HINA and whether or not it will be true that HINA intends to join Croatian radio television. Since Mr. Deputy is here, we may be able to get an answer to what the media are writing in the last few days, which is that the possibility is opened and that the negotiations are under way to connect HINA with Croatian Radio Television. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm warning you, I'm warning you, that this must not happen. If it happens, it'll be illegal. Namely, this would mean that Croatian broadcasting must break the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that a new contract must appear and that it must renegotiate all this with the European Commission for support, because the European Commission must grant new permits if Croatia's broadcasting would eventually be combined with HINA. I believe Mr. Deputy knows that. So, within three years, the Ministry of Culture has not even delivered us such a pompous media strategy. At the end of last year in Opatija, therefore on the days of the electronic media, all indications were that we would see some of it, but the minister sharply removed it and said that it was just some informal drafts that appeared in the media and said that there was no such thing. So, after three years and we don't even have an M from a media strategy anymore. In addition, what happens in HINA when it comes to cost cuts, I will warn that HINA is in debt to pay for the severances, that restructuring has been done mainly in a way that has been fired or taken care of by the number of employees and I would not call it any real rationalisation. In addition, it appeared on the market from the Ministry of Culture funded portal Forum which is very similar to HINA's portal, and we wonder if it is already being prepared and some replacement for our only news agency. We all agreed if we had a report here from the HINA Governance Council that HINA must not be shut down, that HINA must not be abolished, and that is why it would be good to hear today whether there is any truth in these indications at all. If there is, we strongly oppose it and warn that the Government must not make such a decision. In any case, Mrs Gordana Simonovic was due to resign, i.e. to request a resolution. When she did not do so, it is the government's fault that she waited for more than a year for Mrs Simonovic's request to resolve her and we directly consider it a very immoral act of the Ministry of Culture, so that the Governments played the Croatian public for more than a year and that we were able to appoint a capable, adequate and professional person who would act as such, not that one person sitting in two bodies at the same time. I just hope she didn't receive two fees at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104626	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104627	Dear colleagues Glavak, we discussed HINA several times here in the Parliament, and we talked about the fact that HINA needs to survive, that the agency that Croatia should and should be done is to restructure HINA in such a way that it can operate on its own, which requires a program that stands on a solid, real basis. But that didn't happen. The idea you were talking about, the idea of HINA coming together with HRT, that means in the future HINA's disappearance. So it's taking care of people who are in HINA and after that it's going to happen that people are slowly, HRT is getting rid of its people, and so it's going to get rid of those people from HINA. It's probably a Solomonian solution to take care of people that way because at this point HRT is doing business with a plus. And that's not good. As for Mrs Simonovic, we have warned on the Media Committee for two years now, and that's what we've been talking about. He's been late for a year with his replacement. And I think it's another indicator of carelessness, total disregard for the law and disrespect of the Commission for the examination of conflicts of interest. I think he's saying enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104628	Sunny Head, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104629	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Our colleague Vuksic, exactly, has been warned several times on the Media Committee, but there was nothing heard there, or there was no echo from the Kukuriku coalition or ruling ones. We're warning once again that it's inadmissible to refute our only news agency. Every state that keeps to itself has its own news agency. So who's gonna write the agency news? So, many times we talked about how it must look like agency news, how it must be written. So these aren't personal reviews, they're not comments, they're agency news. So we find it inadmissible, and here's what I really hope we'll hear about whether something like that occurred to someone to connect HINA to HRT, and that's how it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104630	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104631	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I took the opportunity to listen here to something I can't believe to hear, who asked the questionable existence of HINA? That's not the first topic of the agenda. Secondly, as far as I have information, and believe me, I have solid restructuring information being conducted. So, equipment, the conditions for working journalists are better. That's what I know from the field. So not directly from this position. So I don't see what we're talking about? We can speculate as we've always been taught, but I think at the end of the day we're here and we've accepted all the reports with a tendency in any case to improve the situation in HINA, and I don't see any reason that this existence of HINA would make it questionable. It's your right, and it's okay, to criticize the slowness and I have nothing to add and take away from you. If I were you, and I'm saying the same thing from this position that I agree with you, it should have been done a long time ago. But to ask on the basis of this decision to ask the question of the survival of HINA, I think it's kind of inappropriate in this situation when I say I do, and you have information that every day the situation in that part is better and business and business coverage. And what my colleague Vuksic says is that I suspect that such a news agency can operate on the market on its own and cover all its costs because that is not the case in France or in any other country, and let's say that the most similar organisational model of HINA is with the French news agency. So, of course, I'm going to defend because of the engagements and our people who are professionally out there this position because what I'm saying is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104632	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104633	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm sorry you're not well-informed. So these are not speculations and your former member, who is now your former spokeswoman, who is now director of HINA, has shown herself about such allegations and has said she will strongly oppose it. So that's what I'm talking about, I don't know what the problem is. You obviously didn't hear that. Yeah, you obviously didn't hear that. So you're saying you have solid information, I don't doubt it at all since it's about your former member who's the current director. But I repeat again, and when we're going to talk about HINA's situation about HINA than when HINA is on the agenda in any context of her colleague Hrelja. So we in the Croatian Parliament can as part of the topic as you know how to expand the topic. Therefore, we do not need a doctorate and I can and I want to warn you already, as we have warned, that it is not good for a person in conflict of interest to be in conflict of interest for more than a year and a half without doing anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104634	Silvano Hrelja responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104635	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I have no intention of giving anyone a hand, but you know that after those inscriptions, of course the principal reacted to such insinuations, but it's been over, it's from us, it's about 9 months behind us and the thing is solved because I thought you were talking about a new threat to a new situation. Thinking was all sorts of things, but that part was detached to many, if you think that danger exists permanently, then you have to really explain it to me because you're now talking about what it was, about nothing new. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm telling you again about the work that we're discussing here on the agenda today, which is about a member of the board and her replacement, I have nothing to add or subtract. I won't stand up to you because I have no reason or reason to. You're right and you're done talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104636	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104637	Dear counterpart Hrelja, we agree on the dispute but should not be doubted about the government's intentions when the situation which is public record and which was to be resolved a year ago, I think it is the replacement of a member who is in a clear conflict of interest, that the government is not responding. So she doesn't even care about the Council for Electronic Media, she doesn't care about HINA, she doesn't care about the opinion of the public, she doesn't care about the opinion of the profession. The other thing, you say it's been removed, so here's what I would do if I were to list you from the highway to all those announcements that came from the government, so that's the denied official announcements, unofficial announcements, balloons that were being played, that's the consistency of inconsistencies. And now you're telling us don't be afraid of it. It's already been a done deal. We who have dealt with the media well know that what HINA means and we are to keep this form in which it is. When I talked about it, I didn't think HINA had to cover 100% of its costs, but when we discussed in HINA we discussed HINA in a work that could be on the market, on portals, on how it would be far closer to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that one part would be able to achieve on the market. That's what I was talking about. I'm not mistaken. Therefore, there is doubt, there is talk among journalists and be without worry that what you know and what I know is very little that Zoran Milanovic knows when he deals with people in the basements of the government's move.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104638	Silvano Hrelja responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104639	Well, I'm glad that we've explained this and I think your replica is correct absolutely, but the only thing that we're going to have a different opinion about is this is not a question of monetization in which the government's announcements really came, and this never came from the D.A.'s office to announce such a possibility. All are speculations, are missed, released balloons about it, it was possible, and tomorrow it will be possible, and today there is in the papers, always someone is fighting for their existence, never everyone in one collective blows in the same horn, but there are always different opinions and releases of test balloons. But the fact is, and the difference between some of the projects that have been given up has never been announced by the government or the competent ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104640	The final word of Deputy Minister of Culture, Mr Berislav Šipus.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104641	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, and thank you for this brief, contentious debate. I just want to get to know all of us and remind us that the Media Committee unanimously adopted this proposal to resolve one person, Mrs Simonovic, namely to appoint another, which is actually the measure of today's debate. As for the speculation about the merger of HINA or the departure of HINA to HRT, I must say that I do not know anything about it, that the ministry does not discuss it and that this type of proposal has never come to my office or the cabinet of the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104642	I'm closing the debate. Sunhead replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104643	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy, you have stated what you have stated, however, according to media reports, the document was sent to key institutions on Friday afternoon to show representatives of HINA, HRT and the Ministry of Culture. Well, since Wednesday may not have come to you yet, it may be somewhere in the cabinet of the minister, but I am obliged to keep it recorded, to warn that there is obviously such a document and that it is obvious that it has been asked by these three institutions to say about this document according to writing and the allegations of the media with today's date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104644	The media is writing, and we decide from then on. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposals on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104645	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency and a Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a solution. Please, let's vote. Score. I find that most of the votes 101 votes for and 2 abstentions are the proposed decision. I am now voting on the motion for a decision on appointment. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 80 for, 20 abstentions and nothing against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104646	And we will also discuss: - Proposal for a Decision to resolve the work of members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television appointed by the Croatian Parliament. The decision is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You've received the motion for an act. The president of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Mr Mladen Novak, will explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104647	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Croatian Parliament's decision to appoint members of the Croatian Supervisory Board of the HRT since 30 November 2012 appointed Doctor Viktor Gotovina and Master Drazen Rajkovic as members of the HRT Supervisory Board. Also by decision of the Croatian Parliament on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television from 13 December 2013 Svetozar Sarkanjac and the Decision of the Croatian Parliament to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television from 28 February 2014. Mate Radeljic has been appointed members of the HRT Supervisory Board. Mate Radeljić has been appointed a domestic policy adviser since 19 February 2015 by the President of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the duty of non-compliance with the membership of the HRT Supervisory Board, it is in accordance with Article 22(8) subparagraph 1. On 23 February 2015, the Law on Croatian Radio Television submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the discharge of the duties of members of the Croatian Supervisory Board of the HRT, which was sent to the Committee for Information, Information and Media on 25 February 2015. On 9 March 2015, the President of the Croatian Parliament was given requests to discharge members of the HRT Supervisory Board pursuant to Article 22(8) of the Law on Croatian Radio Television and Professor Viktor Gotovina and Svetozar Sarkanac, which were forwarded to the Committee on Information, Information and Media on 10 March 2015. In their requests for resolution, they state that they made their decision because of the more permanent and significantly impaired relations of members of the Croatian Supervisory Board and that they did not accept the report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of the work and financial operations of HRT in 2013 at the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament on 6 March 2015. In the discussion at the 39th meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, it was also proposed to dismiss Master Drazen Rajkovic as a member of the HRT Supervisory Board for violations of HRT's reputation. At its 39th session held on 12 March 2015, the Committee discussed this and discussed it in accordance with Article 22(1) and in conjunction with Article 22(8) and (2). The Law on HRT laid down this proposal for a decision with an explanation to be submitted to the Croatian Parliament. I just have to point out that the decision was made unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104648	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104649	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Novak, I didn't hear you or understand you or you just didn't say it. I have not heard any reason why Mr. Drazen Rajkovic's discharge is required, and I have not heard the reason why he violated the reputation of Croatian broadcasting because you are calling for article 8th indent 6. The law on Croatian broadcasting. So please explain to us why this proposal came before us today and on what basis unless we are going to break the law we are asking for Mr Rajkovic's solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104650	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104651	Thank you very much. This is the same question asked at the Committee's meeting and can only be determined that we will not break the law, at least that is what we are told, or all those who participated in the debate are the position that the Croatian Parliament is the only one who can appoint and who, by law, can resolve members of the HRT Supervisory Board. On the other hand, the distinguished gentleman is also a signator of the supervisory board's report which was rejected by, if I'm not mistaken, all the clubs in this House. He did not give an opinion on the supervisory board's report. On the third hand, the work of the Supervisory Board has been blocked, which was one of the reasons, but I agree it doesn't go under the fact that he's violated, that he's violated his reputation. And this also allows the entire Supervisory Board to receive a full mandate. So it goes now with a full term, otherwise we'd have one member with a year or a year and a half to end, the rest would probably be the same for a year and a half, which is just as little not to say unacceptable. So, that's why, in the end, as I recall, were representatives of all clubs present and the decision was taken unanimously. As has been the decision to reject the supervisory board's report on the one hand and on the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104652	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club Independent Leftists, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104653	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This will be a very short discussion, it is perfectly normal when the Croatian Parliament rejects the report that the body that refuses the report must withdraw, change, deviate from its functions as they acted. And I think that's where Mr. Rajkovic made the mistake of not resigning as well as the other three members who chose the Croatian Parliament. However, it is his decision and he has the right to make that decision. I just don't agree that the Croatian Parliament has also accepted an explanation that is often sent from Croatian Radio Television, which is that someone with their statements in the media, and someone on HRT, on public television, can harm the reputation of HRT without spreading hate, does not use an inappropriate dictionary. So the Croatian Parliament has legalized a verbal deliction, if a report by the Media Committee states. So you can't talk about HRT if you think differently than some body thinks and if you think differently than the head director of HRT thinks. It is not clear to me that the report of the Supervisory Board was not accepted, and let's say the report given by the director of HRT, when all clubs, including those who spoke on behalf of the club and the SDP or individuals who understand themselves very well from the Kukuriku coalition in the media, spoke negatively or did not speak with approval according to the work of the HRT, especially the part in which Mr Radman is responsible. So at this point, it would be quite fair, normally, to talk about changing the Supervisory Board and changing the head of the HRT. I support that after the Supervisory Board has been denied by the Croatian Parliament that the entire Supervisory Board is being replaced, that part, so these are all members of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Croatian Assembly not only part, but I think we missed there. The problem will remain. It seems to me that the Supervisory Board adapts itself to the wishes, desires and personal affinities and to the very great sensitivity of Mr. Radman, who conditiones his stay with the Board of Supervisors. It'll be good for that Supervisory Board to do what Radman wants. I think that's where we missed the whole ball. The Supervisory Board should work independently of what the Director is doing, not according to the director's dictation or not according to the dictation of the government or government, and now it seems to me that everything is subject to only one man, what we said when we passed the law, what we said when Mr. Radman filed a report here that everything is done according to one man's wishes. And that would be fine if HRT was currently producing a great program, that the HRT's information program is a meter for all other televisions, meaning the criterion for all other TVs, but from the SDP club we heard they were dissatisfied with this kind of HRT program. In the end, I wonder if anyone can explain why. I've heard it off the record, but I have to say the interpretation, there would be another one of their defeats, and now it's going to be adjusted by the end of this government's term, and then it's going to be seen what. Afterwards, the new Supervisory Board and the new director will likely arrive.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104654	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104655	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Vuksic, I agree with this part that you are in the beginning on the work of the Supervisory Board that just because the report was not accepted in order to be logical, if we will honestly and morally of all members to submit, when they have not already delivered their opinion to resign. But let us be honest, the proposal of members of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Croatian Parliament is agreed among the clubs. No one prevents a gentleman from being a candidate for his party or club who proposed it, so he may be pushing it again, but this way that it happened and in the way that the Croatian Parliament or all clubs are satisfied with what was presented as a report by the Supervisory Board, it speaks sufficiently of the seriousness that approached that appointment, and unfortunately this is not the only case where the seriousness of the work of this assembly is shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104656	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104657	Dear colleague Novak, actually that you listened in the debate I was speaking in this second part, I thought the Supervisory Board wasn't the main issue of HRT. The problem is that on HRT, agony is deepening, which has not been resolved a single key issue, except for that question, and that's what we saved, we have 40 and I don't know how many 3 million kunas were dealing with plus in 2013 it seems to me, in 2013, we haven't received a report in 2014. All of this rest are unfavourable indicators of all clubs in the Croatian Parliament or maybe there are some exceptions they said HRT does not work well. And now what about us? The Supervisory Board that oversees the finances that are in the plus, we replace the Supervisory Board but we leave the man in charge of the operation, the overall functioning of the HRT, and that's the CEO. So I think someone would ask us who's crazy here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104658	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104659	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Vuksic, teaching on what you said. We're... actually passing a new law on HRT mostly dealing with throne games on HRT, that's all we do. Someone's been saying something all along, and they're threatening to fire him, so somebody's writing something on social media and getting fired, and then somebody's hurting HRT's reputation, so they're back on the job, and somebody's going to get fired again, I think. And then, excuse me, colleague Novak, you say we're responsible. We can't be responsible for it, we can't be responsible for it. We at the HDZ Club don't consider ourselves responsible for this because we didn't even support such a law that allowed all of this to happen. However, what you said to your colleague Vuksic is absolutely correct. Today, we resolve, or likely the ruling majority will do so on Friday, resolve members of the Supervisory Board. However, by good practice you will remember and yourself at the head of that committee we have not immediately established the text of a public call but will only do so. So without supervision, without control there can be several months of Croatian broadcasting until a new Supervisory Board is formed. Does that suit anyone?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104660	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104661	My colleague Glavak, you said these were kind of throne games, it's only a question of who sponsors this game of thrones, under whose direction, the directorial stick and the game of thrones take place. Well, that's true. The competition will be launched now, will be published in the media in ten days. When all those applications are collected, the committee will discuss them. After that, the committee will hold a plenary session, and it will certainly be summer. After summer, they will decide who will oversee business in Croatia's radio-television. During that time business will not be supervised by anyone and will please once again the caprique of the Croatian Director of Radio Television, which is not good, because Croatian Radio Television must be above our interest with that I will repeat that I was the one who voted for Mr. Radman. And when I saw it work badly, I said I couldn't support what I supported anymore. And I think it's human to sin, it's human to admit your mistake. I confessed to her, he admitted Mr. Radman's mistake and said he'd resign. In fact, others showed him, but he didn't keep his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104662	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Sunčana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104663	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. We have already touched these topics of colleagues and colleagues, so what will happen in the coming days or weeks on Croatian Radio. The Committee on Information, Information and Media will have to convene a session again if this Decision on resolutions is voted on Friday. Then we'll publish it in the media as usual. It will cost us 35,000 kuna and then all those procedures will go and so probably by the fall as it has been said, the Director General will not have much control. However, in order not to confuse these resolutions here, I will remind you once again that my colleague Mate Radeljić has filed a motion for resolution because of incompatible duties, as he was appointed adviser in the Office of the President. And then, here we can share a statement and a request for resolution with two members, so Mr. Gotovac and Mr. Sarkaniac. They have identically come to realize that something was wrong and that they can no longer work on the Supervisory Board because of the more permanent and significantly impaired relations between the members of the Supervisory Board, the two said in identical statements. They have been enlightened obviously after the non-election of the report by the ruling coalition and have realized that they have absolutely no more chance, but it will not prevent them from being re-elected as members of the Supervisory Board if they run. However, I will return a little bit to Mr Rajkovic, and I will once again express our deep suspicion that the board has done the right thing and that the committee has called for good articles. I will once again warn, so the Croatian Radio Television Act says that a member of the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board will be resolved before the end of the term of office if he submits a request for a resolution if he acts against the law and other regulations governing the operation of Croatian broadcasting. None of this has been called by the board. If it acts contrary to the general acts of the HRT, etc. the committee is already calling for this frequently used statement in recent weeks if it violates the reputation of Croatian broadcasting through its action or behaviour. Therefore, Croatian broadcasting has a constantly impaired reputation, the permanent reputation of anyone who dares to say something is immediately found somewhere or in the Ethics Code, so it can be placed in this context, or it is in the case of Mr Rajkovic that by his actions or behaviour he has violated the reputation of Croatian broadcasting. So, once again, I also warn the chairman of the Media Committee to see with the professional services whether indeed, such a proposal must be here before us in the Parliament. The Supervisory Board is important in control and in monitoring the work of Croatian Radio Television, which as I said earlier, no one will oversee. Among other things, the Supervisory Board shall initiate the procedure for the resolution of the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television, of course if one of the conditions for this regulation is met. Therefore, the Supervisory Board will probably not exist until autumn, so one of these important tasks will not be in question at all. Furthermore, when the new law was passed, members of the Supervisory Board were also not exactly willing to amend it when the head director was given the power under the law to have up to 10 million kuna. So, according to the new law, the head director of Croatian Radio Television is 10 million kuna without giving anyone pie just like that. The Supervisory Board proposed I would only remind it to be 7 and a half million kuna, but of course it did not get the green light of most members of the Supervisory Board. But here, the majority of parliament voted anyway, so the chief director, except that he has 10 million kuna on his own, which, without asking anyone, he can spend and give a picturesque statement to who he wants. Now they will be able to control his work independently and uninterrupted, because absolutely no one will be able to control his work. We at the HDZ Club believe that Mr Rajkovic's resolution is not in accordance with the law. It's just that someone's breaking reputation, and nothing's been supported, it's just inadmissible. What is evident from this is that personnel will end up on HRT by appointing new members of the Supervisory Board and that they will be given a full mandate and that this will be another farce, unfortunately, which we are talking about in the context of public service and HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104664	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ivan Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104665	We are discussing today the resolution of part of the members of the Supervisory Board, but according to the usual custom in the Croatian Parliament, everything and everything is discussed and anything, how it suits anyone or how it seems convenient. There aren't many of us in this room, so I'm going to allow myself the same little bit of fun right now, I'm going to say it to myself, just like your colleagues in the opposition allow. As the HDZ colleague said, absolutely no one will oversee the work of the chief director and this represents as a plan or intention of the ruling coalition to do so. However, I must disappoint you fellow Members but the Supervisory Board has become dysfunctional by the resignations of two members and he could no longer exist as such, he could no longer meet because he could not make decisions. So, in your words, this Supervisory Board could absolutely not continue to oversee the Director-General. But I repeat, this is about fun, and it's about saying what's good-looking, not what's real. Also, as the chairman of the board said the HDZ representative was at the board meeting, he voted in favour of the proposal. Okay, we accept that you're a democratic party and you have different opinions but then you have to speak for yourself, and you spoke for the club. And now you're telling us that on the HDZ board, he actually didn't think he was acting there, but now he thinks differently. It's so hard to run a coherent policy when you don't really know what you're thinking today, tomorrow, yesterday. Okay, it's the end of the day, this is the last debate, so I know we're all looking forward to going home. As for the explanations that we had on the committee on the resolution, so it is very clear in the debate on the financial business of HRT in 2013 and on the report of the Supervisory Board in 2013 which was a united debate although, of course, there was very little talk about one and the other than everything else, but then it was made clear by all clubs, I apologize if there was one club, and I didn't notice, as far as I was following the debate, that any club had assessed the report of the Supervisory Board positive, however. The characteristics of the report by HDZ were scandalous and embarrassing, by the SDP irreparably, by Labourists unprofessionally. It was a report on the work of the Supervisory Board. Those were the grades. This report on the work of the Supervisory Board was not signed by the chairman of the Supervisory Board who resigned, this report was signed by counterpart Rajkovic, who did not resign after we all assessed it together scandalously, embarrassingly, unprofessionally and irreparably. I apologize for making it seem to me on the board as an acceptable explanation that it was a violation of reputation. And for the end, the procedure is procedure, it should be respected. We will try in the shortest possible time to make, conduct a new tender and select new members of the Supervisory Board. But I have to say one more thing, it's also not true that there were no positive things said about HRT in the Financial Business Report. HRT is from 2006 to 2012. For seven years, she's been doing business with a minus, negatively, she's been hoarding up losses. HRT in 2013 for the first time in seven years has achieved some positive shift. The financial result is not, of course, the only criterion. What we are not satisfied with, we are not satisfied with the speed of restructuring and we would like to further improve the programme. But it is not correct to interpret that this is why we rejected the entire business report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104666	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104667	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. When you've already touched on the change of opinion then I'll just remind you of the clean start, spin off, in the house outsourcing, giving up the monetization, master plan, do you remember these all, these all possible announced grand projects from this building across the street, and you here deliberately advocated it, colleague Racan. Most board members weren't at the session and you can't speak for them, nor can I do that when I'm not at the session, but here I spoke for the club and we questioned Mr. Rajkovic's resolution, I hope we understand? I believe you understood what I was apostrophe and what I was talking about. Therefore, once again we warn whether this is in accordance with the law, are we going to implement all decisions here in accordance with the law? The board president assures us we will. We'll see, we haven't heard, I'm asking you to tell me the explanation that you heard on the board why Mr. Rajkovic's resolution is actually required? That's what I warned you about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104668	Ivan Racan's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104669	Comrade Glavak, you are reintroduced into this debate of other terms. You're talking about anything else that has nothing to do with this subject. It's when I replicate to you now and tell you about your term in government where you worked, as if I'm telling you now about painting the tunnel, it all makes no sense together. If the subject is to resolve members, the actions of members of the Supervisory Board, let's stick to that, please. I just said the explanation that we came to on the board, that we were told that this explanation was legally justified. The board president specifically asked if there was anything controversial about it, it was said there wasn't. I'm sorry it's not enough for you, but I'm also aware that nothing would be enough for you because you're not looking for a debate about this, you're just looking for a place to collect some points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-18-0.u104670	Is my colleague Novak in need of a final? ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision on Friday. Our colleagues and colleagues will continue the session tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the 2014 State Audit Office's work report. Thank you very much. Goodbye. Session interrupted at 18.10 hours. Proposal for a decision to resolve part of the members of the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board appointed by the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a solution. Score. I find that most of the vote 85 for, 19 abstentions, the proposed decision has been made.
