ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u106692	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, for exactly the reasons you were talking about, I'm asking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the club to remind us once again of this sacrifice and to share the flower of Srebrenica with the rest of our colleagues today in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u106693	Are you fellow Hodzic ready without a break, without a break? Then go ahead, colleague Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u106694	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We've already given a minute of silence and honor to the victims of genocide, but let us remind ourselves with a few more words of this ugly event. The 20th anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide and tomorrow, the Memorial Centre of Srebrenica's cemetery in Potocari will bury the remains of 136 newly identified victims of the Srebrenica tragedy, making the number of victims found, identified and buried in Srebrenica 6377 and more than 2,000 victims still wanted. These days around the world, we remember the victims of genocide in Srebrenica, we pay our dues to innocent victims, and we show our condolences to the surviving members of their families. In the Republic of Croatia and this year, as we remind many events of gatherings in Srebrenica in the summer of 1995, we are reminded of the biggest tragedy that occurred in Europe after the Second World War and on the threshold of the 21st century. The Zagreb-Srebrenica convoy is organized, the ultra marathon Vukovar-Srebrenica is running. An exhibition of photographs serving as evidence in war crimes processes before The Hague tribunal will open tonight in Klovic's court. And the event "Silver River Walks" from this year in which we mark 20 years of a terrible crime against the innocent population grows into the event "Silvenica World Walks". As part of this event tomorrow, 11 July at 11 a.m. in all major cities in the Republic of Croatia, more than 8 thousand 372 people dressed in white T-shirts will walk silently, with a message not to forget and the desire to never and anywhere and never to repeat themselves. I invite you to take these by-passes to your cities if you are able to join. I would especially like to single out how a member of the Bosniak people over whom the genocide was committed thanked you for all four years of our term in this 7th assembly of the Republic of Croatia, in this High House we remembered the victims of Srebrenica, sending messages of peace and warning that the silver genocide should never be repeated to anyone and nowhere. I am convinced that this will be done by both MPs and MPs who will sit in these benches in all future meetings of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. But these days, unfortunately, we also witness the failure to vote on Srebrenica in the United Nations Security Council. The Russian Federation vetoed and thus prevented the United Nations world under whose protection Srebrenica was at the time of the launch of genocide from carrying out a unique message and condemnation of what happened in Srebrenica. It would be said that these silver ones somehow don't get along with those United Nations. But no veto of respected colleagues and colleagues can change the fact that more than 8,000 boys and adult men were killed in Srebrenica in 1995 in just a few days. No veto can change the fact that their mothers, wives, sisters, grandparents, and underage children are expelled from a protected zone under the protection of the United Nations. And no veto can change the fact that the space of the silver enclave is ethnically cleansed and that is genocide. And the least Europe and the world are obliged to do is make it clear about the genocide in Srebrenica, loud and non-calculating any political interests, and by unanimous resolutions that this time in the United Nations Security Council because of the Russian veto could not be done. I wish the Russians had intervened with the warlord on July 1995 before the start of the massacre of innocent civilians in Srebrenica. Dear colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow at the Srebrenica Memorial Centre in Potocari, to mark the 20th anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide and to bury the remains of newly identified silver victims, more than 100,000 people from around the world are expected. A number of countries' delegations will be present at the ceremony and a large number of the most influential politicians of today will gather in one place. Once again, around the world, who has learned nothing from the Srebrenica tragedy to go to the message of peace that we are sending today from the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. And although as a result of the escalation of war conflicts and new and new victims around the world, very often it seems pointless of messages and the construction of peace must not be abandoned. Sooner or later, mankind will understand the senselessness of destroying human lives and war destruction, material goods. Sooner or later, mankind will realize that the co-existence of all races, nations, religions and colors has no alternative. Sooner or later, mankind will realize that peace is the ultimate goal we've been looking for for for thousands of years. Sooner or later, mankind will understand that even those who today will not or do not want to understand that a silver tragedy like all other human war tragedies cannot justify any political national or other goal. So once again, let's call to peace and do everything we can to make sure that the tragedy of Srebrenica never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u106695	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hodzic you rightly asked for a break. This is exactly the kind of situation Stanka is scheduled for. Now we'll have respected colleagues and colleagues as we agreed first to complete the agenda. Final proposal of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and fair division of profits resulting from their use with the Convention on Biological Variety, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 864. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am giving the final proposal of the law to vote. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 115 votes for, nothing abstentions and nothing against the law of P.Z. No. 864 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116949	You have before you a Law which seems to be of particular importance to the issue of transparency and accountability of public authorities in relation to citizens in relation to the public. I would like to remind you of a relatively new date from a few days ago when, at the International Scientific Conference on Access to Information and Protection of Personal Data held in Split at the Faculty of Law, the great Croatian law professor of emeritus Marc Gjidara from the University of Paris-2, perhaps one of the best legal schools currently in Europe, spoke about this particular issue, the issue of the culture of transparency of the public authority body, which includes the availability of information and the involvement of citizens in the process of their efforts. He called it a governing democracy in which the right to access information is precisely its strongest form. As a matter of fact, this principle of transparency is marked as a prerequisite for administrative democracy, and its re-use of this information as a qualified form of access to information and that is what we are talking about today, this is what the Commissioner for Informing Ms Anamaria Musa specifically warned about. This is how we are incorporated by the applicable law of 2013 into the Croatian Law Corps of 2003, Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2003 on the reuse of public sector information. This final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information is proposed to comply with the European Parliament and Council Directive of June 2013 laying down greater and more precise obligations for Member States to adopt the laws, regulations and administrative regulations necessary for the implementation of this Directive. In line with the new obligations, greater availability of data for re-use will be ensured and the possibility of using open data by citizens, private sector and civil society in creating new values and products. It is precisely the increased public interest in this matter which has proved particularly in the application of this law throughout its time that it has also pointed to what the systematicized experience shows whenever we are seriously dealing with regulations, and that some legal provisions are too broadly defined or being misread. And that is why, in addition to the right to reuse information, this law complements the amendments in its application. So he would try so hard to make it seem important to point out a few of the basic solutions that the amendments to the law offer. First of all, the proposed amendments and additions have been regulated by the Law on the right to access information and to provide information based on specific rules which can often be restrictive and which do not always have to be codified do not always have to comply with the Law on the right to access information. More clearly, individual legal definitions, which we have been editing for twenty years, have been regulated by spreading the practical responsibility of state bodies to public authorities. It is sometimes undetectable and in this law it is very well noticed. There was also a distinction between what it is to specify the owner of the information, as well as the very information of its distinctions from the data, which is sometimes not so simple. And, of course, the principles of the law have been complemented. The scope of this law now includes those legal persons who have public authority, perform public service and are financed from public funds, regardless of whether they are direct financing through public budgets and... imposing or giving so-called. parafiscal loads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there are chambers, tourist communities, such as roof associations, sports alliances. The legislator's principle of commitment that public authorities must be proactive in publishing information in accordance with Article 10, but at priorities and importance. The provisions of Article 11 on public consultation are more clearly regulated. What is important, too, is what is sometimes necessary and these are exceptions and restrictions on access to information set out in Article 15 of the Law. In accordance with the existing prevailing international practice of the state to protect internal processes, specific treatment of documents on the design and documents created in the internal application or by considering a question or decision-making process is envisaged. It is necessary to note that there is no confusion and that it is not seen, does not allow the arbitration of the public authority in limiting the right to access information that, in such situations, the public authority is obliged to assess the existence of public interest and, if it prevails, to publish information and ultimately, what is important and what will create and standardise good administrative practice is to control an independent body. It is prescribed that it is not considered necessary to access information and how to deal with such requests. I would remind myself that here, such rights can be exercised in the prescribed so-called so-called. regular procedures, e.g. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. It should not be burdened, this is worth passing and using its regular rights without, citizens who can use them and without using instruments of the Law on the right to access information. Cases of abuse of the right to access information have also been prescribed when public authorities are exposed chicly by users of the information. And it's noticed in practice. The basic purpose of this provision is to protect the public authorities against requirements which do not achieve the purpose of the law. But also the protection of the rights of other users of the law, as well as the users of services so that their rights do not suffer the involvement of excessive resources to address chicaneous requirements. This is particularly felt in smaller environments which are less capacitated by resources. This abuse of rights, abuse of demands should always be observed in the spirit of the principle of mutual respect and cooperation of public authorities and citizens. The provisions on the content of the law enforcement report have also been redefined, the provision of Article 66(3) which provides for administrative technical tasks for the purposes of the Office and the Commissioner to be carried out by the Personal Data Protection Agency. Now the Commissioner's office will do it alone. And some more important information. In accordance with the proposals of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, the Social Democratic Party's Club and the majority of MPs adopted three basic remarks which were made in the first reading. In particular, the alternative to Article 1 proposed to exclude the application of the law when information is available from judicial, administrative and other laws established by the rules. This ensures the availability of information from these procedures and without the need to demonstrate special interest. The obligation to publish proactively information on procurement procedures, documentation, contracts and other information in connection with this is also prescribed. For the purpose of consultation with the public, an important obligation to carry out consultation is also prescribed for sublegislative acts. The action of the Commissioners by appeal to a user who is not allowed access to the information was also made possible by this law, thereby redefining the provisions on criminal liability in such a way that it was clearly established that the indictment was submitted after the completion of the appeal procedure. Not accepted, several remarks still not accepted. No comments have been received to delete the provisions of the laws which prescribe the extension of the exemption from the right to access the information. Accordingly, I have already said that, in line with the existing prevailing international practice of the state, to protect internal processes, special treatment of documents on making and documents created in the internal preparation and examination of an issue, i.e. in the decision-making process, is envisaged. This is a Regulation on access to official documents of the European Parliament, of the Council and of the European Commission enables institutions and provides them with instruments that they must have in order to protect their internal consultations and councils, i.e. internal processes. However, this is not a general exception since in each case the public authority should carry out a test of public interest and it is secured as I have said and control... an independent body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, no proposal relating to the refusal of the so-called ‘no’ is accepted. chicaneous requirements. The basic purpose of this provision is to protect the public authority against a requirement which does not achieve the purpose of the law but also protect the rights of other users. In order to ensure that public authorities do not take undue advantage of the possibility of rejecting these requirements, the control of the information commissioners is ensured, which will determine their compliance with the standards for the identification of chicaneous requirements. It seems to me that they're creating dangers here to avoid access to information, in fact, in this way and it won't be. Of course, these solutions are not Croatian solutions, independent Croatian solutions but are solutions that are familiar with France, Slovenia, Austria, Portugal, Poland, Estonia and other countries. The same comments concerning the need for regulation and other forms of consultation are not accepted because the provisions of the law refer to the possibility of carrying out other forms of counseling in a way that the body chooses the one that appears to be the most appropriate way of consulting and thus responds to its obligation to access information. The application to reduce the number of public authorities due to and the definition of public authorities is not an impact on the objective of the law and the purpose it seeks to achieve by law. The circle of debtors who are to be included, the circle of the debtors of this law is actually extended to all legal persons who have public authority, perform public service and are financed by public funds regardless of direct financing or through the collection of charges, parafiscal duties directly from users, citizens or legal persons. And finally, no proposal has been accepted to be made in addition to the list of information available for re-use together with metadata of museums, libraries and archives. The obligation to refer to scientific institutions that used public funds to create information. This would be contrary to a directive which does not apply to information, documents, educational and research institutions, including organisations established for the transfer of research to schools and universities, except university libraries. That would be the reason in the shortest lines for which the legislator proposes to adopt these amendments and to set the additions into two categories, the first and most significant alignments with the directive, and the second not less important observed experience which is translated into a norm to make the law easier to implement. In this way, it seems to us that the very initial syntagma that I mentioned at the outset is the initial mark of this right as part of an administrative democracy and the affirmation of the culture of transparency of public authorities in a good, very good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116950	Thank you very much. Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116951	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, in your opening statement, you said that some time you needed to use legal opportunities and legal instruments to get some information, so you also mentioned a representative question. I have to tell you, you may not know, but here we have cases here in the Croatian Parliament where we wait for the answer to the parliamentary question for more than a year and for quite a banal question. Let's say how much is spent on individual official cards in individual ministries, so this can be summed up in a very short time. For example, we waited a year and two months for that answer. So, let's say in the Croatian Parliament, we had a rare case that we unanimously voted in favour of the conclusion that our delivery amounts to salaries on HRT's leading staff, even the opinion of the Commissioner for Access to Information which we witnessed was not respected and that the people who were warned were simply deaf. I'm referring to the director of HRT here specifically. So you have even more phenomenal situations, let's just say when Minister Maras went to the U.S. that you can't get the data back for months how much was spent there and what was done there at all, besides mentioning some new agreements in the film co-productions, which anyone who knows anything about it knows how ridiculous it is as an explanation. So in some ways, we're interested in making this law as strict as possible, making as much commitment as possible, that the more penalization there is in it, if I can call it that, just because of cases like this. Because as Parliamentarians, we often witness that we can't get information, then you can imagine what it's like for citizens or for journalists when they're looking for information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116952	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourists-Party of the Work of fellow Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116953	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. Since the promoter has accepted part of the remarks that the representatives made in the first reading in this brief debate, I will explain only three amendments that our club has submitted to this bill. Therefore, the first applies to Article 3 where public authorities are defined to which this law applies. We believe that this law must also apply to those bodies that have public authority and do not have legal personality. If only the definition set out in the proposed Article 3(1) of the legal person who has public authority means that this law would not apply and apply, for example, to the National Council for Science, Higher Education, the Council of Higher Education, the Council of Higher Schools, the Rectoral Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and similar institutions, or bodies that have public authority, and some even regulatory but do not have legal status. Second, the dilemma we had refers to the proposed paragraph 7 of that article, which introduces that the person who did or did not do something wrong or did something wrong, is in violation of what we did or did not do. So it's not the leader who's responsible, it's some other official. For the first time, this person's criminal responsibility is now being introduced. We've already had an amendment prepared to go back to sanctioning leaders, but let's see what practice shows in terms of sanctioning not the head of the body that messed up but the responsible person of the perpetrator. And the other two amendments refer to criminal sanctions. In fact, we believe that Article 61 provides for fines must provide for sanctions, fines for a body of public authorities which disables or restricts the right to access information and re-use of information and punishes between 20 and 100 thousand kuna, as well as also the head of the body and authorities. These are amendments 2 and 3 and a brief explanation of why. We consider the proposal to be contrary to the purpose of criminal punishment against which the expressions of social rebuke affecting the perpetrators, as well as all others, that they do not commit an offence and the application of the prescribed penalties also affects citizens' awareness of the implementation of public order, social discipline and other social values, as well as the justice and punishment of their perpetrators. Since criminal penalties are not applicable to public authorities financed from the state budget, they cannot be fined financially by this provision because it can be applied to other bodies that can be held accountable as legal persons for the offences committed in the implementation of this law or for the non-compliance of this law. I believe that these three amendments are further qualitatively correcting the text of the law and I call on the government's representatives to take them seriously, of course, to accept them in accordance with good practice that the good proposals of the opposition are always accepted in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116954	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Sunčana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116955	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In his first reading, explaining why this law must be amended, the minister said, due to the transparency of the directive, that the necessary interventions through a significant number of provisions of the law are in line with new obligations and that thus ensuring greater availability of data for re-use, the possibility of using open data by citizens, the private sector, civil society in creating new values. That's what the minister said. And I ask colleagues and colleagues whether these amendments to the law will allow citizens to at least at the same time have access to information, for example, about future arrests, or whether it is the exclusive right of prime minister and minister. In fact, I find it scandalous that after the prime minister of finance, through the media, he intended to force people into the bones and announced the arrests of the bankers. Previously, future arrests were served by the DORH mostly through the media, which is now polite. However, we are now in another situation. Direct political interference in the work of political independent bodies in the police state's manner, ministers are also announcing the arrests of those bankers with whom the same minister has charged us in three-and-a-half years for 90 billion kuna. The whole state actually made a mortgage. It is his job to arrange state finances, it is his job to address among others the issue of blocked citizens, it is his job to solve problems with Swiss francs, his job is not and must not be any politician to announce the arrests of anyone in the Republic of Croatia, nor is it the job of any politician to condemn anyone. For this there is an independent judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. It's an unprecedented act of one finance minister in a courteous Europe. Will the amendments to this law allow every citizen to at least at the same time as the ministers or prime minister find out if anyone will be arrested? Of course these amendments to the law won't make it possible. A whole series of objections came to the proposed amendments to the law. Of all the factors involved in the consultation process with the interested public, the proposals of the Commissioner for Information have been left behind, or at least they are not listed here. We don't see them as an attachment. It is, of course, the most referenced to the measure of things and it would be best to make observations about such changes to the law. A whole series of remarks came from NGOs and a whole series of objections came from us, of course. The applicant therefore did not accept the proposal of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament and of the Croatian Democratic Community Club related to Article 8 which is added in Article 15(4), which extends and prescribes the extension of the exemption from access to information. We're sorry the promoter didn't accept it. The proposal of the same committee as the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community was also not accepted in Article 12, which is added in point 5. so on. chicano requirements. We talked a lot about that. The promoter explained that it would not make access to information difficult, but rather that access to information would be facilitated by other users. We believe this is not the way it's going to be. Compared to the comment of the Croatian Democratic Community club on which the deadlines for conducting the consultation with the interested public are cut, it is noted that the provision on the duration of the consultation has been amended as set out above, so that here is the remark we all had more or less. The application of the Croatian Democratic Community club to reduce the number of public authorities by changing the definition of these same public authorities is not an influence in relation to the objective of the law and the purpose to be achieved. And it was not accepted, in addition, that the proposal of a colleague of Parliament, Maria Lugarić, that, in addition to the list of information available for re-use, together with the target data of museums, libraries, archives, in accordance with the directive, the obligation also applies to scientific institutions. So it wouldn't have been a problem if it had been introduced into the law. A whole series of remarks, so it wasn't adopted, some did. We hold that in this way by hiding behind the directive, and we also talked about it when we first read the law that we actually restrict a well-organized law to access information and that in some ways this law goes back to which we cannot be satisfied. What has been forgotten has been forgotten the financial resources. Thus, the financial resources for the implementation of the European Directive say they will come from existing funds, but if we take into account that absolutely all users express regret and, of course, point out the lack of money, including the Commissioner for Information, which is publicly through the media and here in the Croatian Parliament, and we supported it, we asked that sufficient financial resources be provided for it so that it could implement what the law really means that the funds should have been overlooked. Because of all this, our colleague and colleagues at the HDZ Club, we hold that this is not the way we should have or should not have gone beyond the directive and intervened in other provisions of the law or articles of the laws that were well arranged, which we have recently changed and which we believe should not have been amended in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116956	A colleague, Josip Kregar, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116957	One of the usual things about replicas is to first say what you agree with your predecessor. That'll be brief, I agree that there's not enough resources in the budget but we're not discussing it right now. This is a debate on the law and I will support any proposal to increase the resources for the work of the Commissioner. But I'm reporting for another thing that got me a little confused in my previous exposure. The existing law explicitly considers classified information relating to investigations and related to criminal offences. It's regulated by another law. That's why I don't see how to link a bill of this law that regulates what's being said here. We may or may not have to like Mr. Lalovac or Milanovic's statements, but with what is now the bill is not directly related. And I'm going to add this, and I'm not quite sure that their statements were of that nature. I've been listening to it on the surface, but I haven't gotten the impression that they're giving away secrets about investigations or threatening new arrests. I'd like to threaten new arrests but I have to tell you I don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116958	Sunny Head, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116959	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Craiger, you're right. So, where did once the finance minister get the information about this, that's what he was talking about in public space, that someone was going to be arrested? Well, some data must be classified. So where did the minister get that kind of information, I'm sorry? What I have linked to the Law on the right to access information is the fact that if the Minister of Finance has knowledge that someone will be arrested so can the citizen today send a letter, appeal to the Law on the right to access information and ask for at least the same time to receive that information? You understand me very well, thank you very much for pointing out that as well. Where did the Minister of Finance get that information? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116960	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116961	My dear colleague Glavak, teaching what my colleague Kregar was saying in his replica, I'm very interested in yesterday's, I assume you're referring to yesterday's interview with Minister Lalovac, to find the part where he's talking about the arrests. That's just not true. Listen to that interview again if you didn't listen to him very carefully last night. And the fact that he was talking about the investigations being conducted did not give a single piece of information against whom, from which part, the banking section, the economics and the like were mentioned, but it was completely in the area which he as a finance minister covered, or part covering the IRS, or a special department within that IRS. And find me in those 11 minutes the part where Mr. Lalovec, the finance minister, came out of the frame of action. Here, I'm really interested in you telling me the part where he broke the law and where he could be that there's a lot more information than ordinary citizens have. Well, there's a lot more information in the work and in the circle he's doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116962	Sunny Head, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116963	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Fellow Sobol is good that the minister is doing his job and it is good that this office exists, absolutely, we support it. And it's good to find those who go outside the law. That's where we absolutely agree. However, fellow Sobol, such a step by his own colleague, the finance minister, was surprised by the minister of the administration. I'm sorry he's not here. So what's apostrophysed in all the media, and that's the only way we can get obvious information is that the minister of finance of the Republic of Croatia said there would be more arrests and that of bankers and businessmen. If the media got it all wrong, then the media must have understood something, but apparently Mr. Minister said it. We keep it inadmissible if he has such information to share it in public space in this way. That's never happened before. And especially not to hear it from any finance minister of any EU country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116964	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116965	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. I'm paraphrasing your colleague Hebrang, no, you're not telling the truth. In fact, I'm reading here a report from the media and that press report can only be from the title concluded they've done it by journalists that he announces something like new arrests, but from the text you've certainly read, you certainly know nowhere to be mentioned. The minister reports on the work of his department within the Ministry of Finance of the Department of Tax fraud of the Ministry of Finance. It's his department, he informs the public in a general way about the work of his ministry, and that's absolutely it. I absolutely don't see the basis for the accusations that you... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116966	The Sun Glavak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116967	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Pandek, you just accused your media colleagues of not understanding what the minister said. Well, you've accused your media colleagues, and they're probably following it, so they're going to draw their own conclusions. However, you must read the interview or listen entirely. What the minister said would be the new cases very quickly, arrests in the banking and economy sector. Therefore, fellow Pandek media are here to monitor our work, the media are here to watch if we enforce the laws and act in accordance with these laws. You've just accused the media in the Republic of Croatia that they're mistranslated what your minister may not have thought or thought or said wrongly or did not express himself well. This is very dangerous, this is an intrusion into media freedom and I'm keeping this inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116968	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116969	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavak, for 3.5 years we have simply witnessed the poor procedures of this government, this Parliament and the inadmissible behaviour of ministers in the SDP government. And what happened yesterday was that a finance minister said what he said at the HRT interview simply among the businessmen today, the bankers are getting scared. They can say whatever they want, he made it clear that the investigations were complete and that there would be action. And what is it, gentlemen? Prepare for possible arrests. All of this today is an attempt to calm it all down somehow because they saw that they did something that no one has ever dared to say before, no minister as many as we have ministers in the past 25 years has dared to say anything that was said yesterday except Minister Ostojic recently during the second arrest when he said a strange sentence "He'll find something already". I also couldn't believe it could be heard from a minister's statement, but it happened. Who will now convince people and the public if there are DORH and USKOK actions which cannot be stopped if investigations have been conducted that there is no political pressure. And right at that moment, people who are executive authorities, politicians and ministers must think about that moment. No one will be able to convince them. We've completed here 14.5th debate on the replacement of two heads of the Personal Data Protection Agency, two months have almost passed, see this procedure? Two months have passed we don't know what's going on in that agency? No director, no deputy director, and the agency's working. There is no political decision, no vote in the Croatian Parliament, and the debate is over. It's just a way of saying how politics is run in this society and today that it trusts any body to say what it is and to say the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116970	Time. When the finance minister says there will be actions, it means that a tax that is not accounted for and charged will be charged. Of course, when the Minister of Finance says so, that's it. The Sun Glavak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116971	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Boric, we said this is unseen, we can say political pressure and this is mixing directly into the independent bodies of the judicial authority above all. The Ministry of Finance has become a repressive apparatus, okay for those who break the law, we've said that a hundred times, no one has a problem with that, but in this way you tell people you're afraid, maybe you're next? Shall we turn this to his statement? So let's once again say scandalous that in public space, in public service, this is how the finance minister addresses the businessmen, the bankers, anyone. Let the department do what it has to do. However, in this way, the finance minister steps out in public that the prime minister is announcing something like this, and before that I will remind myself that it has been served through numerous media and now it is a little polite, okay, it should be. So that's the order that came in. I think it's a mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116972	Deep Billic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116973	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Glavak, I'd like to go back a little bit to the scale of what we're discussing even though we're in an election campaign. So, you mentioned that Minister Bauk mentioned that the transposition of this directive into Croatian laws actually expands the delirious obligor and that is the fact. You yourself mentioned that the users, i.e. legal persons responsible for the reuse of information, are introduced libraries, archives and museums, and even scientific libraries or university libraries. And there really was Minister Bauk, and I'm going to say a little bit later, in fact, how economically important it is to introduce these institutions within the framework of this law. You also mentioned that the ministry did not respect the scientific institutions as re-use of information obliged, and I must remind you, in fact, that this is in accordance with this Directive 37/13 which also does not prescribe or exclude scientific institutions, scientific research institutions, institutes from the disclosure of information that they have come to through their scientific work regardless of how this scientific work is financed. You also mentioned that Commissioner Musa has repeatedly highlighted the lack of money, but also the lack of human resources, I would remind you that in the budget we have provided additional resources in this House for the functioning of the Information Commissioner's Office, and about her team that works there, I can say all the best from personal experience. Something to go back a little bit on this subject that you've opened, the subject of this law is not a prophecy. So the same way you opened the arrest issue so I could ask Minister Bauku or someone the next seven numbers on the lot. The theme of this law is something else entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116974	The Sun Glavak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116975	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Col. Bilić, this was a proposal from his colleague, Marija Lugaric, about which you spoke, so I said that it was one of the proposals that was not accepted, citing what was not accepted by the HDZ Media and Club Committee and by just as many NGOs who warned that this was not good in this way to change the law and that this way the law would go backwards because so many articles of the law did not need to be amended in accordance with what the directive requires. It is true that after much pressure and here from all of us the pressures of all of us here in the Croatian Parliament and the public the Government finally provided additional resources for the functioning of the Information Commissioner's Office, however, when the Information Commissioner's Office was set up, exactly how much resources were needed to enable it to function normally, and at that time a comparison with the Slovenian Commissioner's Office was taken, for example, and still not enough. So here I haven't criticised the work of the Commissioner for Information, we do that when we see her reports and when we see her actions. Moreover, the Commissioner for Information has just said that public authorities still respect the law to an insufficient extent and that public authorities ignore the Law on the right to access information that we have seen and reports for 2014. So you've well noticed in some things we agree on in some things we're thinking the opposite, but the fact is if we want to make all public authorities transparent, then we have to provide sufficient resources. And the funds for this implementation aren't re-secured in the budget, that's what I was actually talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116976	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Left-wing fellow Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116977	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with Associates, Honorable counterparts and colleagues. First of all, we need to ask ourselves why we're passing this law. The law needs to be amended, a law passed in 2003 because of not because of the directive, not because of the EU, because of ourselves. We need to change the law and it is one of the most important laws in order to be a better society, in order to make life easier for citizens. And all those who underestimate this law are wrong, one of the foundations of a better democratic society. Now I'm going to look around, I've been a journalist for 30 years, so I don't want to comment on what's been said so far. Only in one newspaper title was the arrest in the text no mention of any arrest. Mr. Lalovec didn't use that word according to the articles in all the media, I wasn't looking because I was on my way to midnight, so in all the media I could see in writing, there was no arrest. There's a medium in the title, an arrest. Therefore, Mr. Lalovac said very quickly you will hear about new cases, which makes me happy, because the cases have, because the money has, disproportionate property we speak every day here in the Parliament and we would like to keep talking and to continue working on that Bandic's "let the bodies of the state do their job" that no one is doing anything just to hear it. And Mr. Lalovec said the investigations were completed will be handled, let him pay taxes, that's his sentence, "let him pay taxes!"which I completely agree with. We've suggested if you remember one law that is... a law on the origin of property in which a tax would be paid higher than the entire property so it's not accepted and many will regret it, so let's pay the tax. I'm very critical of the government, I don't mean to defend the government, but this is what I found out, I'm not going to tell the truth, what I think should be said. And when we talk about the law itself, I'm a supporter of that law, I'm a supporter of the laws that govern that area in society. I am pleased to see that there are clearer definitions of who the bodies of the public authorities are, and it is especially important to know who should be in charge of the public accounts. And that's clearly said, all those who are financed by public money. So once and for all, Mr. Radman should stop telling lies, which is that he's not going to go to jail because he's going to give secret contracts to HRT that exist, because there's crime. Because all that's secret is crime. That means that some society under the table is dealing something and it can't be a secret, everyone who's being funded by public money. If a grandmother who has a pension of $1.800 can pay 80 kuna subscription then there's no right to Radman say I'm not going to give a report on what money is spent on. Secret record-making contracts, secret movie contracts, everything's secret. Nothing's secret. No one who deals with public money can have secret contracts. We learned about secrets with INA, banks, with everything the Croatian state sold and kept it a secret. There was mud everywhere, and there was too much mud, and when that mud got all messed up, it was all blurry. So I don't know if anything's gonna happen, it's a very important thing in that law, are those provisions I'd be saying not penalization, penalties, let's call it that, penalties. They should be bigger for me. But also to apply those penalties, if someone would pay really from 1,000 to 5000 kuna or 100 thousand kuna institutions that... Or if the prime minister, I repeat 10 times that and the ministry did not give that information, and for that reason I am replacing the minister, from that moment on, there is no secret in Croatia anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everyone's gonna give everything. So long as the Prime Minister of any Prime Minister, anyone waved his hand and what does that have to do with what the public will do to us, we are the government, so long we will only talk about the laws of any consequence can be. Remember recently there has been a report on how many other public authorities at the local level are hiding information. And what consequences do they bear? Nothing. Why? It is also a matter of parties, when the party says ours will be in power as long as we want them to steal and cheat or give no information. That's how long it's gonna be. We're not a good example here in the Parliament, and that's for sure. If applied, if all the laws in Croatia were applied which are voted here in the Croatian Parliament, if the courts followed these laws we would be organized society, they would not wait for judgments, people would have confidence in institutions. Unfortunately, they don't trust institutions. The fact that there is no lack of money for the Commissioner for Information is a lie, we have enough money to team up that office, to make that office work and be like in Slovenia, as my colleague Glavak said before me, to rule one of the most important institutions. And it should be one of the most important institutions. Because if you know what to ask the public authorities, what public authorities are obliged to provide to you without asking, then you will be able to live a more casual life. And so long as we've been hiding behind the law that it's ours to just make laws without controlling whether these laws apply for so long and we're fooling this people and we're not doing good. So the most important thing in this law is the sanctions and that those sanctions are implemented and that, and everything goes from parties, means here from the Parliament and that the parties act and that they argue that the laws apply. That all those who don't apply the laws, if all of them were removed from their own parties and they say we're shutting you out of the party because you're not doing your job, we promised people we'd do it. However, it is said, it is not important that we pass the elections. Unfortunately, in this country and in a society like this, it goes through words like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116978	A proud Sobol replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116979	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would just like to welcome, colleague Vuksic, that at the very beginning of your presentation, you explained what Minister Lalovac said exactly in his interview and what they showed in this way how irresponsible individuals come forward in this Croatian Assembly by performing constructions and accusations without having read exactly what the Minister of Finance said in this case exactly or tomorrow any other minister, the official, did not matter at all. So I just want to say thank you for quoting what one minister said yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116980	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116981	Here's another... Look, to tell you the truth, Minister Lalovec is not a person who would threaten me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the other thing, what he said, what I read, only if it wasn't correctly transmitted, I'm not accusing the media because the media are doing their job well, I say, the only title in one newspaper was the arrest and this remains no arrest, but it's exactly what I quoted and Lalovec's words don't even suggest there would be any arrests. It's an important sentence for everyone to pay their taxes, to pay their taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116982	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116983	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Deputy Minister of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would say a few words about this law on behalf of the SDP Club, and at first I would say of course that we will support the adoption of these amendments to the law because we think that this way two important elements of this law are further strengthened. One is, of course, the fundamental human right to learn information from the public authority, that is, the public sector. And the second thing is that it's completely now fallen into another plan, which is the reuse of information that makes this law change. Of course, Minister Bauk also explained in his first reading that once the law is introduced by Directive 37/13 into the Croatian legal system, it means that the law changes a little to improve some of the ambiguities and things that can still be improved in this otherwise good law from 2013. We have the Law on the right to access information from 2003 as well as most European countries that then introduced it although the tradition of accessing information is much longer than 200 years. However, what was done in 2013 on the initiative and some representatives in this House is, in fact, a new step towards and the establishment of the Commissioner's office, i.e. the Commissioner for the right to access information, the introduction of inspection or supervisory powers and expressions, the possibility of giving sentences in accordance with the law. All this has done is that Croatia actually has one of the better laws on the right to access information. I agree that here are these amendments we have actually explained some things to the proposed ones, first of all, that those bodies are public authorities that have an obligation to participate in the public information process. It has also been clarified and the very information that many users have actually confused not only themselves but they have burdened both the public authorities and, of course, the Commissioner's office with requests that were not actually requests for access to information. This proposal explains this and makes it much better for Croatian citizens. That is why the talk was also about the chicanisation of the public authorities from individual users, i.e. from certain requirements which did not understand the very essence of this law and asked the public authorities to analyse, project, collect additional information or deal in a similar way with their demands, which actually distances the Commissioner's office or this law from the real interests. What is crucial in the interest of every government? Above all, the economic growth of society, but of course the transparency of society and the functioning of society and the availability of all information from the public sector to all citizens. So-called transparency by default and by design. When it is achieved in society, then this Law on the right to access information, the Commissioner's office is actually only an auxiliary asset and an exception to the inability to exercise the right to access information. When society works in a transparent way, it's more or less clear to all of us and it can be all clear to us. There's been a lot of talk here about actually between the first reading on public consultation. It was mentioned by associations that some may have misunderstood, but perhaps they were shouting in advance that something might not have happened, that this very important and democratic institute in passing laws, but here is the bill and sublegal acts actually used as a powerful weapon in the hands of democracy. I'd like to present some figures here now, given that no one's ever seen it before, so in 2011, we've had 48 public consultations in law-making. 48. 2014 544, that's 1033% higher than 2011. We have data for 2013 where there were 374 such consultations with the public, but what may be more important, there were 12299 users who participated in the process, Croatian citizens who participated in this process of public consultation and law-making. What may still be the most important information, that 2391 remarks have been adopted and incorporated into the new law, and this is, in fact, further strengthened this democratic instrument for the participation of citizens in the direct creation of legal regulations. 579 were partially adopted. So this growth of over 1000% says that social transparency is also growing and it does not grow by chance because here in 2011, we must admit that Croatia has actually submitted an application for inclusion in the open-ended system, i.e. the Open-Government Action Plan, which this government has drawn up in 2012-2014, and we already have 2014-2016, it is rated as the top five European countries that participate in this process at all. I think that these are important things when we talk about this law, regardless of the pre-election activities of the pre-election campaign because these are really valuable data. There have been speeches and public procurement between the first and second readings and I must remind you that there is a Digital Documentation Centre at the Government's office that publishes all this information from the public authority's body, they're available, here I was just looking at it. So it all works perfectly to say so. Of course, all these documents must also be on the public authorities’ website so that users can access them more easily. What may still be important to point out and was one of the objections in the debate that not all of our citizens are online described to say so and that they cannot participate in public debates about the adoption of laws. However, from these statistics it is evident that all the consultations and not online, there are still a lot of public stands, that there are still contacts face to face to face to say, and that this form of consultation with the interested public still exists, especially in smaller environments. I'd actually come back again at the end of being this law, it's reuse of information. It is actually completely out of focus, however, when, while the Directive was adopted in 2003, it actually took into account the digital era and the digital environment in which we live today. In fact, this directive could not fully meet the expectations of all those living digital time and digital economy. We must not interfere with the mind that public authorities have the therapy and the data that can be used economically. According to some analyses, so-called Shakespeare case in England, and then Deloit conducted an extensive study. In England alone, it is estimated that the economic benefit of re-use of data is about a billion and 800 thousand pounds at an annual level, and it is indirectly moving over £5 billion. In 2010 and 11, the European Commission did the same research, so-called Vickers of studies that showed even more interesting data where the actual value is, the economic value in those data that stands stored moves around ten billion euros with a 7% annual growth trend as almost no industry, that industry is growing 7%. You are now wondering probably as many people have wondered, and in 2003, where these data are used. First of all, these are motion data, so the geo data used here in our smartphones, in our apps. You have an institution that monitors traffic on highways. These data can be used at the moment. For example, in London, you can choose the path you will take from home to work using an application that uses exactly public service data, so services that care about maintenance of traffic traffic in London and thus save not only time but also money because here in capitalism say that time is equal money. What this 2013 directive further strengthened is that goods in libraries, archives and museums and university libraries must also be made available to citizens in this re-use process, but of course with the exception of scientific institutions in order to protect, of course, their scientific and research activities. With us, this procedure is relatively simple. In other countries, let's say the data created by the public authorities has that trait, or a copy-right mark so you can't get the data, say all British institutions. Also in New Zealand and some other parts of which heritage is their tradition, but you have to license yourself to use this data. It makes it very difficult for the whole business to say it like that, but here are the English, and all those who have such a system found ways of course to function very well in that environment. Finally, I would say that I hope that the economic benefits of using data owned by public authorities will begin in Croatian society too. It can primarily be used in start-ups, i.e. all these young companies, small creative companies that make different applications, softwarewers and can stand to actually improve our daily life but certainly run economic flows and economic events that are important to us but also to everyone at this point in fact. And here's the last thing I'd like to say is that, and I already said in my line that what we're saying is that the Commissioner's office has too little money. Indeed, this office is one of the most important democratic assistants actually Croatian citizens and should and will need and in the future certainly have much more resources to work in a quality way. However, knowing the people who work there and the Commissioner himself I am sure that they are actually doing a very good job and that everything they have done so far is actually a lot of Croatia, and their work has actually made Croatia a much better, more transparent state for its citizens. What is the goal in the future is for each government to be transparent, by default and by design and then there will be no more such problems and challenges. But here I took this opportunity to actually say a few words about the main part of why we've changed this law, and that's this hidden economic benefit from the reuse of data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116984	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116985	Thank you. You have opened a very interesting topic outside of this present one, and I think it is really very interesting and very valuable and that it should actually be much more and some of the competent authorities have an analytical approach to actually assess the value of this information that is collected in different forms of public service and public sector, that the Croatian State does not use it in any way or in many other resources available. I think it's completely visible to all of us. See what happens in the education sector, you have very clear data on movements, on the structure of employees, on employment movements, you have data on the number of unemployed by structure in employment services, and you have information on the growth of universities, universities and educational institutions that further educate exactly these non-excessive staff, but ultra-surpassed on employment markets and where the state is not the point of what they are opening but what is actually subsidising higher education programmes for those professions that for the next 10 years have no chance practically on the labour market in the Republic of Croatia to find a job. So this is even very simple data that doesn't take too much or sophisticated methodology to analyse and that the state would actually react proactively. The state doesn't react proactively here at all. You have an example of what happened to state agencies. We want to abolish state agencies, but not as a state but as a reduction within the framework of the ministries, because we cannot, unfortunately, and the current state government cannot promote the problem of rationalising agencies as a whole, but through certain ministries, depending on jurisdiction. So, not to fail to look at that picture in that depth that you mentioned but at a very, very basic level.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116986	Dubravko Bilic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116987	Thank you, Vice President. So I don't really know what I'd answer to you for this replica except that there are actually a lot of ways in which this data is used. And when the government or some ministries propose certain measures, they certainly use this data and a lot of meta-data actually to help make decisions. The Ministry of Administration has done great work through the system of e-citizens and through various electronic imports of databases that, in any case, facilitate and bring economic benefits to citizens. Just take it so you don't have to go to the IRS today when you sign up or teach some kind of request at the Social Care Centre or go to the IRS to look for some certificates or some other institutions and pay the tags there than on the spot just thanks to the import of a large number of databases that the state owns you can very quickly and cheaply solve your problem. What's important is to mention, actually in education, you said that the state educates a lot of people who don't really need them. In this sector, however, especially valuable are the personnel educated at high schools throughout Croatia. I will give an example of Osijek, it is quite close to you, which is one of the best cities in using these very modern technologies and start-up businesses that use data that owns and units of local self-government but also state bodies in developing different applications that then sell the market. Here's a recent opportunity for me to meet a team from Osijek who already has 15 employees because he's just using the data that is here public.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116988	We're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Joseph Kregar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116989	Thank you, Madam Vice President. When it's like this, a half-empty hall comes to me to be a little sarcastic at first that you won't get it wrong. I take credit for the fact that we have the Marine Good Act on the agenda. Imagine when the Law on the Sea Good begins to discuss saltiness, the quality of tourist accommodation, the sea temperature at present, then one wonders whether we actually as a political body do not suffer from one disease, which is that we deal with everything and everything we do not understand. In order for my time not to leak, I must say that it is not understood here that the law on the availability of information, regardless of what is said about the availability of information, is a measure of public administration reform. Hell, and Obama who persuaded his president to launch a world programme that we joined the open authorities because that's what this is about, this is an open power law, not about whether Minister Lalovec should have said no matter what, I'm not going to do anything. 'Cause that's what he said I got a little scared, you know. I'm not such a neat taxpayer, it didn't just happen to start. Well, whatever. I'd only like three things, especially in this light to emphasize. Croatia has modernised its public administration at least to indicate which direction it wants to reform. This is about the openness of power. That means it's no secret what state and public bodies are doing, which they intend to do. And then it leads to someone else, which is that with the citizens, we're important, they want to share their knowledge, the data they have, the problems they're dealing with, and the plans they're proposing. That's why it's the part about public consultation. And I must admit, when I look at you, you've prepared a great debate in this regard. When it comes to public counselling, the decisions made in this way are more quality than those mentioned in the sarcastic introduction. And thirdly, I'm reporting because these things always get to be small and missed. I am pleased that the ministry adopted a large number of remarks that came after the first reading. Maybe it's not sufficiently highlighted, of course it's a debate, so the criticism might be in the first place, but I'm grateful for that. Only, and here I support not only an amendment that I didn't know about my colleagues, Lesar, who corrects one small flaw, but my colleague, Grbin, and I have submitted another amendment that solves one important issue, which is the question of the definition of which all bodies refer to this law where, due to a small failure, there has actually been an outcast of some bodies that do not belong to the classical system of public administration, and it is about bodies that have very significant public powers. Moreover, I have to remember that, as early as 2003, it was a lot of problems because it was not understood that if we want to reform the administration that many bodies will be created that are not classical public administration bodies will be outside that system, but will exercise public authority. That's why I'm hoping for support for this little change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116990	Lastly, on behalf of the Proposer, Deputy Minister of Administration, Mr Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116991	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the debate on the matter of the Law on the right to access information. What is visible and what is now indicated by a special representative, the esteemed Kregar representative that this is indeed one important, acknowledged or not, but an important, important instrument for modernising the development of public reform, not more state, but public administrations. Here we are talking about public authorities, we are going very broadly, and the amendment is very acceptable to the proposer and it will be, very carefully we will consider this amendment and I think we will accept it and Mr Lesar and Mr Kregar because they are in very similar terms, practically complement these small shortcomings and extend the circle responsible for the right to access and to those who are not classical public authorities, but public information belongs to citizens, they have the right to know no matter who its creator is. Here, what might be worth a little more to be understood to say and for better information to the public is that in 2013, the Agency's Personal Data Protection Corps issued the Commissioner's office and practically established a new Institute for the Protection of Access to Information and has already failed to enter the Croatian legal system in two years, so it is shown to be an extremely good instrument that is effective and necessary, and I agree with everyone who has given criticism, it needs additionally, it is strong, it is gradually strong, and this law does not prevent and does not lie about not providing funds. He says the funds will be provided... within the state budget and you'll have to do it, you'll definitely have to do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About the very beginning of these changes, this is important, in two directions changes are important. I have tried in the introductory letter to say it and it is that reusing is not negligible and you know how to use information for commercial and non-commercial purposes is what, practically that information additionally ennobles and gives society greater benefit. Therefore, the whole series, the whole development of this institute, was the fundamental backbone of this law and, of course, the proposer could not ignore both what the experience gained and in the application of or not the application of the law, the weaker application of the law in these two years. And that is why, based mainly on experience, the Commissioner for Information has offered other solutions to a good degree. The Commissioner for Information was involved in the creation of this law, particularly regarding definitions, definitions that are one legal, good legal standards and very, very good and I think that understanding and better application of the law are to a good extent and its creation. In the work of public participation, there is also acceptance of its application in one major act. Proactive publications and, of course, what is most insistent, which has practically prompted changes, which is the right to use information. We can't say that all the remarks are accepted and there are also the reasons, those that are not accepted and I think they're reasoned and give arguments for their non-acceptance. I said about the amendments, I think we need to discuss carefully and consider it by Wednesday and not only this first amendment, the amendment that applies, which was given by the esteemed representative Lesar and Kregar, he did not, seems nomotechnically, in fact not nomotechnically he is content and I think he is acceptable, and the other two are tied to fines and strengthening the responsibility of the head of the body and the body itself, I think they deserve another serious attention and so we will treat them. Thank you for your discussion. And again, I return to whatever it seems to be so unnecessary to the words that I did the other day, really people dealing with this area based on the experiences of the system which, having a much stronger tradition in all of this, are right to access information that is the French system of respected Professor Gjidar and I am glad to mention it in the Croatian Parliament and say that one of the biggest experts dealing with this area is the Croat from Paris and which points out exactly the following: this is the principle of transparency being strengthened in this way, the development of administration, this is not a negligible instrument in the development of administration and the development of administrative democracy, an administrative culture that can only go in favour of citizens. That is why we need responsible authority and it seems to me that in this work the law has answered and very concretely responded to its purpose and that every intervention, by the intervention that it has now done, has not been made... For itself, it was made effectively in both directions and therefore I would ask the MPs to really support it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116992	Sunhead replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116993	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Piculjan, the new Institute of Protection, which you were saying should have improved the right to access information or the availability of public authorities to deny citizens, in fact, by telling the information from the Commissioner's 2014 report. In fact, it warned almost 40% of the public authorities' bodies did not comply with the law, which of course we keep inadmissible. The same reports delivered were very superficially written and suggested that officials working do not know the legal rules and do not know exactly what they should write in the reports. This is the Commissioner’s report, which is actually responsible for what you said about the new Institute of Protection if there is something on paper, does not necessarily mean that it will bring results in its implementation because it obviously did not bring them. So that's what we're talking about. We want citizens to be able to get an answer to any information they have the right to, but it won't be enough if we change their laws, and in this way I say we keep saying that the law hasn't been improved, but that in some articles it's actually downgraded and that we don't think it's good. Information officers also need to change that, and I don't know where they're going to find the funding they have to go through education and they don't usually just do that. They are especially in units of local and regional self-government on the way only in charge of implementing this law and you must know it well and you are directed at it and should change it as soon as possible. You can't deal with an important institute just by the way, and unfortunately, in most cases, that's the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116994	The reply to the replica of Deputy Minister Zoran Piculjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116995	Thank you very much. I agree with you on a lot of things. Here is the issue of law enforcement, not just legal letters, but also its implementation. This is what the Commissioner pointed out to indicate, indeed, that information officers are worth educating, to a good degree, in some bodies to free any other job. And that's exactly one of the measures proposed by the public administration development strategy adopted by this House of Commons a short time ago, I think that's a good thing. It seems to me that this law, however it had it, could be amended by law, could be attacked on some side by having quite certain its values, that it is aimed at eliminating one gradual elimination in this part of which you may have scored in that part that 40% have those bodies that are not eliminated to be eliminated by this administrative disculture. It seems to me that this instrumentation is good and that better can only be a strict control of the implementation of regulations not only in this area. That's what every responsible government and every government and government should do. I couldn't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116996	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill next week. We will continue the session on Tuesday 14 July at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final proposal of the Household Activity Act. Thank you very much. Goodbye. Session interrupted at 12.48 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116997	Now let's decide on the agenda points we've done this week. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 832. The debate on the law is over. The amendments were submitted by representatives of Peđa Grbin, Josip Kregar and the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour-Stranka Work. I'd like to ask the Honorable Minister of Arsen Bauk to be made aware of the amendment of the Honorable Representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116998	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendments submitted by Mr. Grbin and Mr. Kregar for the reason that it accepts the amendments submitted by the Labourists and which is the same in substance but somehow the expression of this other one seems better to us, so in this sense we do not accept this amendment because of the adoption of the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u116999	Thank you very much for your explanation. Honorable representatives of the applicants of the amendment, on behalf of both respected representatives of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u117000	Thank you, Mr. President. Given the content of the amendments of the Croatian Labourists, we agree and do not ask for a vote, we withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u117001	Amendment withdrawn, thank you very much. Both MPs are pleased, I think. Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour-Stranka Work, Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u117002	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u117003	He became an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment No. 2 in Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u117004	Amendment No. 2 and Amendment No. 3 are not accepted for the following reasons: there is a significant difference in the policy of criminal punishment in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in the proposal of the Croatian Labourists in three items. One purpose is to punish legal persons. Given that the Law on the right to access information applies to public authorities, we hold that it is pointless for the state to punish itself not only in this part of the Republic of Croatia and the units of local self-government but also other legal persons to whom this law applies, i.e. I believe that there is no point in punishing the Vodavod, and that the citizens are therefore paying more expensive water than should be punished by the Director or the responsible person. The second part refers to the punishment of responsible persons. The Labourist proposal considers that they should be the leaders of the body, in our proposal they should be held responsible for persons who, by their actions or by their inaction, contributed to a violation and in that sense, are not excluded from the head of the body but are not excluded from other employees or officials who have blamed the fact that criminal punishment should occur. And thirdly, because of the avoidance of selective application in the punishment of easier violations of the law, this is the most in Articles 10 and 11 and because of certain cases that we have had in the wrong or in the wrong interpretation of infringements of the laws, we have therefore prescribed that criminal punishment should occur when it is not acted on the orders of the Commissioners. And the Commissioner's warrant includes all the articles that have been covered so far. So it's not true that criminal liability is excluded for some violations. In this sense, it is to avoid the selective application of a law that is worse in my opinion than not fully applied we have left such provisions as the Government has proposed, and in line with the adopted Public Administration Development Strategy which eliminates unnecessary processes from the work of the public administration, so that includes the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u117005	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant, the amendments, the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u117006	I will give an explanation of both amendments that were rejected as the minister both refused. So we're really different in that you don't see the purpose of the state punishing itself. The state itself has passed regulations and has committed to respecting certain laws, so if the public authority does not respect that regulation then it must be sanctioned regardless of who it is, because some right without sanctions is merely a declaration of law. Second, the punishment of the head of the body does not exclude the punishment of the directly responsible person of an official or of another statesman. I don't know how smart it is to amnestize the leader because you know that we already have a lot of problems if you remember the Commissioner's report on information especially in the non-disclosure of information, the unnamed information officers and the lack of annual law enforcement reports. It's the head's responsibility to some other person. I understand you don't want the state to punish the state and the public authorities paying the fines. But then we will argue in advance that the obligation to respect the Law on the right to access information will not be sanctioned by the public authority because we amnesty them by rejecting these amendments. What will be the next report by the Commissioner for Information in terms of fulfilling the obligations under the law, and I remind you that the past report pointed to a major catastrophic situation in the bodies of the public authority remains your soul and therefore I ask for a vote for both amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-10-0.u117007	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment number 2 of the Labour Party's Representatives Club which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find Amendment 2 has not received the required majority. We can vote immediately on Amendment number 3 of the same club of representatives also the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that he has not received the required majority of amendments number 3. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 89 votes in favour, no abstentions and 24 votes against the passed law P.Z.E.BR.832 in the text as proposed by the Government with the amendment accepted. Dear fellow MPs and esteemed fellow MPs good morning! We will continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, but before that, before we move to the agenda we have our hand in the air of the respected representative Mladen Novak.
