ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106636	Dear Mr. President, a new network of public health institutions in the territory of the Republic of Croatia has come out in public these days. We in Slavonia are dissatisfied because we think that this proposal is unfair, untransparent and that it is brought to harm the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja. I'd like to ask you to take a break for the ten-minute club session.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106637	Okay. My colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106638	With regard to the Istrian Ipsylon and the necessity to finally agree and reach some consensus on the need to continue the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106639	Okay. Thank you very much. Dear Vice President... Health care, network. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Representative Petar Baranovic. My colleague Damir Cain, please turn yourself off for a moment. Here's my colleague Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106640	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club due to the catastrophic state of the dairy sector. In fact, they have big pay problems, and I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity, given that there's also the Deputy Minister of Finance to address the Parliament on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106641	What did you call dairy or a shallow price in dairy? What? Okay. Can we keep working at 9.45? We can. Thank you very much. Stop by 9.45. Thank you. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] So I ask the respected representative, Ivan Drmić, to speak on behalf of the HDSSB Club on the subject of a network of health institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106643	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I give you greetings from Slavonia and Baranja, I don't know if you know where Slavonia and Baranja are, you don't know, you know. It is a Croatian region whose residents pay taxes just as paid by residents of other regions in the Republic of Croatia, and in return they get crumbs, not only from this government but from previous governments, and that is the region in which they live very badly today, which feels neglected for a reason. This region is a Croatian country-wide cereals that produce about 2/3 of the food produced throughout the country. A lot of people live well from that region. Well-lived shoppers, well-lived buyers, well-lived merchants, well-lived processors in the food industry, and you fellow MPs live well, because you live on taxes paid by this Slavonic and Baranja poor woman in the state budget. A network of public health institutions in the territory of the Republic of Croatia has been publicised these days, and here is my colleague Mandic, who knows about the problem for a very long time because together we were protesting in Djakova when the school's birthplace was abolished. At that time, we rebelled, it was a long time ago in 2008, when individual representatives of today's ruling coalition and some ministers were coming to Djakovo and together with us to protest with the citizens of Djakova because such a harmful move was made by then Minister Milinovic, for some kind of sacrade savings, abolished the birthplace in the town of Djakovo. The birthplace where 516 children were born in 2008. In addition, the birthplace was planned to abolish the birthplace in Metkovic, the birthplace in Sinj and, as I said, the birthplace in Djakov. I'm gonna pull a few parallels in a hurry because I don't have a lot of time. The birthplace in Metkovic last year gave birth to 159 children. The distance of Metković from the nearest hospital center is 95 km, it is a hospital in Dubrovnik and two gynecologists work in the area of the town of Metković. Three gynecologists also work in Sinj, 108 people were born last year and 35 km from the nearest Split hospital. In Djakova, as I said in 2008, 516 children were born, 100 000 inhabitants were gravitating and covering the school's birthplace. The distance of the town of Djakova from Osijek hospital is 40 km away, but the most remote places that have gravitated the children's birthplace are now within 70 km of Osijek's birthplace. And there is simply no argument that these two birthplaces survive, that the Croatian state takes care of them, that they invest in them, and that they meet the needs of the residents of Metkovic and Sinj, and on the other hand, that the djakova birthplace is shut down and, as we can see today, is being thrown out of the plan of the network of health public institutions. I did not come here to beg the Minister, I came to deliver a message from Đakov, to give a warning to the Minister that citizens of Slavonia and Baranja this time in the first place, the citizens of Đakov will not reconcile to be second-class citizens of the Republic of Croatia again and that you can expect to rebel in Đakov and that we will fight all available means against such a network of health institutions. You are welcome to save elsewhere, and you will choose to open a maternity home to Djakov. It doesn't have to be a birthplace with a headquarters in Đakova, it can be an outpatient center within either the Osijek or the Naslova hospitals, so you solved the staff problem. The technology used to be solidly equipped, it doesn't need much money to invest in it. There's not much time. I would welcome our prime minister to this occasion, and I would tell him that in Slavonia and Baranja, they were worried about his hand because in the 2011 pre-election campaign, he spoke if he neglected the interests of Slavonia and Baranja's inhabitants that his hand would dry. There are people who believe in Slavonia and Baranja that such things are not jokes and are seriously concerned about the hand of our prime minister today. Savings in a way to eat three meals a day in Zagreb, in Dalmatia two, in Slavonia one, so that someone in Zagreb says let's save everyone to give up one meal. Believe me, we in Slavonia are already on one meal. There are many in the Croatian Republic's grain house of hungry children and simple water has come to your mouth and will not take long to feel the rebellion of Slavonia and Baranja as it is felt today by the prime minister of Greece.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106644	A fellow Drmic has run out of time. Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain, problem of the Istrian Ipsylon. ... What? [[You can't hear it.]] What about road construction problems in Istria or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106645	Ipsilone, good. Your Honor, Mr. President, Deputy Minister, gentlemen of the State Audit, we're looking for the same status as the Ipislon Bridge. [[President: Good, good, so I can track the topic./]] In Istria, we certainly look forward to the beginning or better to announce the construction of the Peljega Bridge, and we sincerely welcome it. We are also looking forward to the financing of the Peljek Bridge through the European budget quotes or from these European funds. Why am I putting it under quotes? Because we all know that we are filling this European budget. Finally, from 1.7.2013 to 1.1.2015. The Republic of Croatia paid Brussels 450m euros, and we withdrew slightly less than 430m euros, with them setting priorities among other things. It means they make twice as much money on that basis. So, the Peles Bridge is certainly a priority, but I want to point out we have everything. We've got the paperwork, we've got the property-law issues settled, we've got the quotes, we've got the money. It takes political will. It is true that this would in some way increase the public debt, in order to increase public debt. In the first quarter, public debt increased by 8.9 billion kuna and reached 288.5 billion kuna in late March. So the gross social product shares 87.7% and is expected to be around 91. 92% by the end of the year. The second thing that we also want to believe is that if the Istrian Ipsion started and I want to believe that it would start by the end of the year, and I talked about it yesterday, so that there would be a strong launch of a construction operation not only in Istria, but in the entire Republic of Croatia. All Istrian low - construction could be employed through a well-designed consortium. So we're insisting again on the ipsilon. Why did I answer higher than that, because at this point, Ipsilone is not among 50 government projects for, say, 2016 and then until 2020. The final stage costs 370 million Istria. It is true that the state, meaning the state budget that we adopt BINA and Istria pay or pay 30m euros annually for small traffic. With these 370m euros that would go into public debt, that's 1% of the public debt, that's huge, that's clearly that amount of return would be slightly higher, but it could extend the concession itself to compensate. Otherwise, some 7.6 billion kuna revenue is generated in Istria's space, returns or remains 6.9 billion kuna 2013. This year we're going to have about 7.9 billion kuna. It will return 7.4 billion kuna, so it might be possible and some surplus will be compensated. What are the basic road projects I will tell Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County. A fundamental interest I would say at this point that the government, that local authorities, well come on they are there marginal agreements with Slovenia on certain directions either holes in Postojna or Kozina, Buje-Goldenja, Rijeka-Zuta Lokva. For that we do not need Slovenians and a clear train tunnel through Učka. Ipsylon without a concession. It is certain that it would never be built. It's true that BUIK has profits around 10% a year. It's in these circumstances huge. The Ipislon cost, but it also cost other highways that were built across the Republic of Croatia. If a pulse hospital is paid off, the first payment war comes in 2018, so through public debt we hold that in this way should be financed by the ipislon and that as soon as possible should start building the same if possible immediately after the end of the tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106646	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the House of Parliament on behalf of the HDZ Club, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106647	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. With regard to the subject set up by a respected colleague, Drmic, I need to remind myself that there has been a current network of hospital institutions that are now being implemented. Namely, I'm going to repeat that I don't know which times there are so-called times. selective amnesia in our country, so we often do not remember what happened, and here is just another example of how both parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public are deceived. So, let's remind ourselves, was that famous fat plan of hospitals that in the first version contained a network of hospital institutions significantly altered compared to the present state. At that time, in terms of protests, both citizens and units of local administrations and self-government and the Association of Patients and Professional Associations, etc. were raised. suggesting a series of illogicalities and harmfulities for patients of such a new structure and schedule of hospital beds. Then, of course, it's all covered up. There's a new version of the master plan that was here in the Parliament. It was discussed but completely without a plan to develop hospital beds, schedules, etc., only based on some general claims that most of us could agree on in principle. The perfidion of the whole story is that it was only done so that then it could wave and claim, so here it was adopted, the master plan was adopted in the Parliament, you adopted it, and we didn't see any of the only elements of the network of hospital beds. And now that it's far from the eyes of the Parliament and the public, we've brought that network and we're starting to have fun, we're facing a series of problems. Of course, reducing hospital facilities in terms of reducing hospital beds, especially if it is applied equally in top university hospitals, clinical hospital centres, etc. As well as in the smallest county hospitals, it opens up a whole series of issues, very serious questions because, for example, the question is, where will the most severe patients be treated? We're gonna send them all abroad and spend more money incomparably? Is that what we want? However, the network of hospital institutions currently being implemented is a typical example of policy making away from the public's eyes and beyond the possibility of public influence. And that needs to be said out loud and clear. We are constantly witnessing such examples that occur. Here, in the public debate, it has already ended and we will almost unfortunately get the proposals of two new laws in the field of health care, i.e. health insurance. When a whole series of citizens, unions, patient associations, doctors, experts raised their voices, saying that it could be a matter of destroying a solidarity public health system, it points to the possibility of privatising health care that no one wants, and then there was a truly incredible reaction. On the official websites of the ruling SDP party, a bizarre petition of health care has been launched for everyone calling on citizens to support health system reforms with their signature to make it free and accessible to everyone. So, after making proposals exactly the opposite, and when citizens raise their voice against it, then all of a sudden those who have agreed to such proposals become the biggest advocates of exactly what citizens are accusing them of. We are indeed witnessing all kinds of bizarreness, but the elections seem to be getting closer and the bizarreness is getting bigger and bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106648	Thank you too, dear colleague. At the end of these demands, respected representative Petar Baranovic on behalf of the DC club, Novi val and the People's Party of Reformists.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106649	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Associates. It's quite an opportunity for you and your associates from this facility this morning at the assembly. In fact, I would like to point out one problem that can have very serious consequences for this country and its agricultural sector and it is about continuing non-payment practice in time. You know very well, and most parliamentary representatives, that in Croatia legally prescribed payment of delivered goods and services within 30 days, 60 if otherwise concluded by contract. I am now publicly telling you that the biggest players in the market for agricultural products in the purchase of Croatian peasant products continue to laugh in the mustache of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian legislation continues to ruin Croatian peasants, make significant profits by ignoring the laws of the Republic of Croatia and systematically destroying the agricultural sector in this way very directly, not even indirectly. The other day I visited a very serious agricultural producer, a man has a few dozen... throats in stables, serious milk delivery. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Payment is 2.5, 3 months late. Many large buyers, not to mention names and not to mention, are blackmailing Croatian peasants today at this time to hand over goods at dumped prices and to pay them with several weeks and several months of delays. We are the first time this year in a serious situation to lift the agricultural sector to its feet. For the first time, we call tenders for very serious envelopes that are measured in hundreds of millions of euros. With a whole series of measures developed that are adequate for the least agricultural producers and for the largest. However, the fact is that the structure of agriculture in Croatia is such that most agricultural producers can be classified as small agricultural producers who are so financially anemic and weak that if this practice of ignoring Croatian laws continues, the Croatian village will definitely collapse. These people don't have bread, let alone to have the most important incentive measures. And let alone enough money to pay for the business plan, to pay for the documentation and everything that is absolutely logical, necessarily hand over to withdraw funds from European funds. So, I'm clearly warning you if you don't introduce payment discipline in the agricultural sector, the Croatian village won't have the breath to withdraw the funds, there will be damage, there will be disgrace and we will destroy the Croatian village. Your ministry is required without any calculations, starting with the biggest because they're the worst, literally blackmailing peasants if they're going to pay the goods to take the annexes down even the agreed prices. So start from the most large if you're credible as a ministry and if this executive power is a credible executive authority. Enough beatings of small ones, you've got spines and courage and start taking care of this country, start with the biggest, biggest violations of the law in the marketing of agricultural products and among the biggest players. Save Croatian peasants is your duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u106650	Thank you very much, dear colleague. And now the usual, because this practice of the Croatian Parliament, too, let me say so become the opposite of the original purpose. In practice, the Institute was introduced to react to important political, surprise events or generally sudden events and it really turned into a practice of a conference for the public of club representatives on its own topic and it would not be bad at the fact that the Rules of Procedure cannot be held. So today, I'm going to give this example to one who put it on behalf of the clubs, and he turned to you fellow MPs and said that you're getting taxes and contributions as if he wasn't a representative, he didn't say we're getting paid. Well, that's really problematic now from the point of view of parliamentary debate and correctness. So it was an example that I must point out to be very incorrect. But I, my colleagues, really ask you all, have won practice, but let's not turn practice into the opposite of the original intentional one. Extraordinary events either politically, or non-political ones that require a reaction to either the Parliament or other institutions have a purpose to use this. Thank you very much. I think I had to say that for the sake of the Croatian public and for the phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114332	And now we will continue the debate according to the established agenda. We agreed to unite two points of the agenda, now that's up. This is: - (a)A proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. - b)A proposal for an annual report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2014. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Budget law. In the event of a discussion of the annual report, Article 213 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on this report was conducted by the Committee on Finance and State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received a report from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Then we'll discuss the same thing. - Report on the annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. The report shall be submitted to the State Audit Office pursuant to Article 6. The State Audit Office Act. You've also received materials. The government has delivered an opinion on this report. The report was discussed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received a report or a report from this committee at the session. So in a united debate they agreed that clubs have 20 minutes. I think it's enough to argue for 10 minutes, individual debate, let's not stretch now. You know very concisely state your views so it will be this opportunity within 10 minutes on both topics. Do the government's representatives, to Deputy Minister Igor Radjenovic, Deputy Minister of Finance on the proposal for a report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114333	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, if I can look back on this introduction to financial discipline, my colleague Baranovic has now left, but if anything can be taken in plus this government then it is in any case an effort to introduce financial discipline and order in the field of mutual relations and protect the competition. So we're going to check these allegations, too. All the competent inspections and all the computers will be on fire and we'll check what we can do but I say it's good and effective to say this about the Croatian pay phone and go to one thesis, but I say if there's something in our plus and what I'm personally Deputy Minister of the last few years proud of then it's just working on that effort. But let's go back to the topic, and the topic is therefore a report on the implementation of the state budget for 2014. You've all received materials. It has a total of 1917. I have no doubt that a good part of those who are economists and whose business it is have mastered. I will only remind you that this report of yours therefore contains a general part of the state budget, which includes an organisation of the economic and programme classification, contains a comprehensive report on borrowing on the domestic and foreign markets of money and capital in 2014, contains a report on the use of the budget stock, on the guarantees and expenditures given by state guarantees, contains an explanation of macroeconomic indicators, and on revenue and receipts, contains a table of the general budget deficit together with an explanation and contains the implementation of the budget plans of extra- budget users in the last year, together with an explanation of these expenditures. We've united the debate, it's certainly there, and I think it's a good practice and a state audit report. That's why this report may have been here a little later than it used to be in previous years, i.e. years when this report did not go together, but I think it is a good practice for the Croatian Parliament to discuss together the government report itself, but also for a controlled useful and quality state audit report on the implementation of the state budget. Allow us a few sentences to remind ourselves of macroeconomic indicators in the previous year. So in 2014 Unfortunately, GDP recorded a 0.4% decrease but the trend is to say from the negative side was positive because it was a 0.5% slowdown, 0.9% was a decline in 2013. We know that the last quarter was positive, we know that the first quarter of this year is positive, I'm going to use the end of this debate to say something about that data, but I'm saying it's about the 2014 report, so we need to remind ourselves of the exact figures. The consumer price index recorded a reduction of 0.2%, so we had a slight deflation. Industrial production that was what was positive in last year is after five consecutive years of decline finally recorded a growth of 1.3%. Light slight growth also recorded traffic in the store at less than 0.3%. It was also positive what was happening in tourism, so a record number of arrivals and overnight stays was recorded. The total number of arrivals increased 5.6 and nights 2.6 compared to the previous year. We also recorded a certain positive trend in the trade in goods, so the goods exports increased by 8.7 goods imports by 4.3%. The main effect of this entry into the European market is the additional opening and removal of barriers so that both exports and imports are growing, but the most important thing is that exports are growing at a more dynamic rate. When we talk about revenues in more detail, so the total revenues of the state budget in the last year were $114.7 billion, 0.2% more than planned, and compared to the previous year by 5.4%. The most significant revenues among them were tax revenues of 63.1 billion, an annual increase of 0.6% and 0.9 compared to the planned one. Income incomes were generated at 1.4 billion kuna, which is also an annual growth of 2.1%. You know there's a lot of that revenue in the local self-government budgets. Profit tax revenues were 5.7 billion kuna and an annual decrease of 11.1%) was recorded due to a slightly reduced economic activity compared to the previous year. The value added tax, the most recent and most significant tax, amounted to 40.9 billion kuna, which is an increase of 1.7%. The excise duties and special taxes, therefore, and excise duties amounted to 12.8 billion more than the previous year. There we had some minor changes and adjustments and that's the main cause. The revenue from the contribution was 41.7 billion, up from 12.3%, due to the increase in the rate of contribution to health insurance from 13% to 15% and those 3 billion accumulated savings from the second pillar, for the first pillar of the EDP procedure transferred to the first pillar. The aid revenue has been recorded by 27% as expected since it is mainly EU funds and the Schengen process it is the main component of this increase. Allow a few sentences and expenses in the last year. The expenditure was $127.5 billion or 98% planned. The implementation of the expenditure was higher by €2.5 billion than in the previous year or 2%, but the primary reasons are therefore the whole year's commitment to pay for the EU budget's contribution, i.e. in the amount of €1.7 billion, the increased expenditure on interest rate 651 million, and the main extraordinary expenditure last year is the flood recovery of €406.9 million, some of which we will have this year. And if you exempt those three extraordinary one-time events then you see that the expenditures actually had their actual decline compared to the previous year as opposed to the previous one. Costs for employees were the most significant expenditures of 21.5 billion kuna, which is 99.2% of the plan by 214 million kuna or 1% compared to the same period last year. The other day we published a total number of employees, actually the Department of Administration, so 2993 if I'm not mistaken, a smaller number of employees. The reason is that this number is slightly weaker down by only 1% and due to this increase in contributions to health insurance, which is of course also affecting the costs of the state budget. Material expenditure also decreased 7.6 billion, 93% of the plan or 415 million or 5.2% less than in 2013. Subsidy 5.2 billion also slightly less, but there is a major cause for subsidies, hence the reduction of those in agriculture. The aids given abroad and within the general state were made 8.6 billion or 98.1%, and the most expendable of all expenditures on employees, compensations to citizens and households hide behind them in a way that pensions amounting to HRK 36.3 billion. The health care that last year, in which we all spent 22 billion kuna together, and a system of social care of 2.1 billion kuna. So I listed the most significant components of the spending part. Other expenditures totalled 4.8 billion kuna or 89% of what was planned. So in 2014, a lack of a consolidated general government of € 13.5 billion or GDP level of 4.1%) was left behind, down by 0.9% compared to the planned deficit. In order not to be confused if we do not repeat ourselves very often in this assembly the differences in methodologies are mentioned, we are talking about the national methodology of the cash principle of the way in which this budget is planned and implemented all these years and in the way that other countries in the EU do. The ESA methodology is something else, but we are happy to discuss it as part of this debate. So in conclusion about the figures, the total deficit of the state budget was in the narrow sense of the state budget of 12 billion 812 million or 3.9% of GDP, out-of- budget users of less than 377 million or 0.1% of GDP, so the unit of local self-government was the usual surplus of previous years, last year achieved a deficit of 358 million kuna consolidated, so it all amounts to what I said in the first sentence of this deficit of 13 billion 547 million 782 thousand 879 kuna or 4.1% of GDP. In addition to this report, you also received the Annual Report on the application of fiscal rules, which is therefore based on the amendments to the fiscal liability law that came into force and on 8 February, and the first law therefore, if I am not mistaken from 2012, then the existence of those fiscal rules is determined by the Commission for Fiscal Policy, the Parliament has the same report. This fiscal rule applies therefore after the Government adopts an adjustment plan for the purpose of achieving the medium-term budgetary objective and at the recommendation of the Council of the European Union. By setting out the medium-term budgetary objective and the adjustment plan, the provisional fiscal rule applies and according to which the annual general budget growth rate must not exceed the annual growth rate of the projected, or estimated GDP at current prices. As seen in this report last year, this rule was not satisfied, the general budget expenditure for the calculation of the fiscal rule was reduced by 0.3% while the estimated domestic gross production increased by 0.6% during the assessment, during the last draw-up for the rebalancing of the last changes and the addition of the budget. And if that's what we're interpreting, we can see that the fiscal rule has not been reached. Finally, the annual expenditure growth rate had a negative rate of 0.3% and GDP, today we know that it was 0.4%, so -0.4%, and that's that additional difference, that's what it stands for. The Commission for Fiscal Policy concluded, among other things, that the government failed to reduce the general government deficit for 2014 but implemented structural reforms in terms of which it was in line with the European Commission, which is why it can be concluded that Croatia has taken effective action to reduce the excessive deficit. I was quoting the Bureau of Fiscal Policy's conclusion. So much for the fiscal rule. Let me just a few sentences about, usually it's a topic about the execution of the budget stock. I dare say, at least as much as I remember never a shorter budget stock report, simply because there were relatively little decisions in this regard. The state audit still has legitimate objections to this today. In fact, it is good that only what is an extraordinary event is really executed in the budget stock, and what could not be planned at the beginning of the year for which the budget is proposed, so out of a total of 119 million and 700,000 budget supplies, 56% of the budget was settled for, spent on the settlement of fees and costs according to court rulings, even 56 million. We, too, often say that in the Ministry of Finance, would be happy that and if all the budget users were to succeed in somehow making those items plan within their regular items, as companies do when making reservations. And in this respect, we're making some progress every year, but still not enough towards the state audit position, and it's a good thing that's the case. The law stipulates that the budget reserve has the right to make certain decisions on the payment of funds, both the Prime Minister and the finance minister, to a certain amount. In the past year, neither the Prime Minister nor the Finance Minister have used it, but I'm telling the government's decisions in total, on the shortest report, are decisions of 60 million kuna and 670 thousand kuna, so the decisions have been made in total, you have a detailed report on this, and it's a terrible report from the Ministry of Economy, but I'm not going any deeper to arrive in this time that is scheduled. I mentioned the report on the audit carried out, I would not be long on it, there is Mr Klešić with the strongest team of state audit reports, what I can say and what I am saying in my public performances, what I am saying on the Committee of Finance that it is my pleasure to see always such a deep and professional report and that it is a good correction for both us in the government as a whole and for the Ministry of Finance to improve from year to year. I dare say we're here on a road trip and a joint job and it's good to say they're warning us what and how to fix it. You can always do better, we try. Certain objections or minor disagreements with the report itself the government had, it is an integral part of the government's report on, in fact, the government's observations on the report on the audit carried out, you also have, I would not now detail, the main objection is about Croatia's insurance but, I say in this introductory letter that I do not go on. I said at first, I'm talking about last year's report, last year's figures, every government, every ministry, every Parliament inherits something that's been done before. So let me remind you, actually, let me say a few sentences and the latest figures about so-called financial indicators and actually macroeconomic indicators in the first months of this year that continue for the past year. So export growth in the first four months of this year is increasing further by 10% and imports by 4%. The growth of European Union countries. In the first four months, as much as 12% has been growing and export coverage has increased from 57.5% to 60.8% in the same period, we know that around that indicator there have been some statements from the president's office. This percentage is still far but growing and this is a positive indicator, so 60.8% coverage of imports by export, so when we add services, then it's balanced or even a positive balance of payments but I'm not going any further around it. So total exports in the last year increased 6.32%, growing this year. The investment climate improved foreign direct investment last year increased 400%. True God on a low basis in 2013, but an increase of 400%. 735 million were in '13, 2 billion 876 million over the past year of foreign direct investment. BiH's crowd of arrivals of tourists said I beat it last year. In March alone this year, the number of arrivals increased by 18.9%, the number of overnight stays by 22%. Industrial production, the most important indicator of economic recovery, was more than 4.4% in May of the previous year. In the first five months, it grew by 1.3% compared to last year. I remind you it was last year compared to '13. Industrial production increased 1.3%. Personal consumption is increasing for the ninth month in a row, revenues from trade to slightly 2.5% above, the growth in personal consumption of the last 9 months in continuity took place in 2007, so 8 years ago, the last time before the crisis, 9 months in a row, personal consumption is growing. The most important input in GDP, the largest component of GDP, and on this side I say that input helped to continue economic growth in the first quarter of this year and therefore we have a second quarter, growth in the economy and... the last quarter of last year, the first quarter of this year, and all indicators for these two months show that this is the case. The volume of construction works, for example after many years in March, increased by 1.2%, in April too, although symbolically 0.1 but growing in continuity. Both last and not least, it is important to say that, in May of this year, after the third month in a row, the number of employees has been recorded, so the number of employees is growing not compared to previous months and seasonal growth, but rather compared to the same month last year. It's not one month anymore, it's not two months, it's three months, and it's a clear indication that the number of employees is growing and that finally at rates and speeds, that I'm not being overly optimistic now, with rates and speeds that we're not happy with but that we're going up and we can keep going. Here's so many ladies and gentlemen advocates for this opening letter. I believe the debate will be as fun and as alive as ever, and I am in the mood to answer all your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114334	Thank you, too. Now we will hear the opening of the second part of today's united debate. Chief State Auditor, Honored Ivan Klešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114335	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Appreciable MPs and MPs. The report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 submitted by the State Audit Office to the Croatian Assembly within the legal deadline. The audit has been planned and carried out with the aim of providing reasonable assurance that the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 has been drawn up in accordance with accounting rules and that the provisions of the laws and other rules governing budgetary rules have been applied consistently. For the purposes of expressing an audit opinion, the performance of the tasks and recommendations of the earlier audit, the planning of the accounting of the state budget and the reporting, the achievement of income, the execution of expenditure, the borrowing and issuing of guarantees and the approval of funds from the budgetary stock have been verified. For the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 a conditional opinion has been expressed. The following facts influenced the statement of conditional opinion among others. The part of the irregularities identified for the previous year was repeated in 2014, the general government deficit was demonstrated on the basis of data arising from different accounting principles. Therefore, the expenditures and deficits of the state budget and the receipts from the borrowing and debt of the state budget are shown at a lower amount of 361.5 million kuna. The main book of the state budget and the balance sheet with effect on 31 December 2014 did not record the total data on state property. In addition to the requirements for issuing guarantees in 2014 no full documentation is included. The appropriations in 2014 as well as previous years have not been used in part in accordance with the provisions of the Budget Law, since the expenditures that were foreseeable and, in the opinion of the State auditors, could be planned. The borrowing report on the domestic and foreign money and capital markets is not complete because it does not contain data on borrowing from international financial institutions and on commitments made by other legal entities. In addition, the revision set out the objectives of the health recovery did not reach even though a total of 6.5 billion kuna was spent on recovery from the state budget in 2013 and 2014. The unsettled commitments of the rehabilitated health institutions and the Institute of Health in late 2014 amounted to 1.9 billion kuna. The control of the entry accounts at which the HBOR points out to the Treasury is insufficient. The adoption of a public debt management strategy has been delayed, and given the needs of the state debt budget and the growth of the long opinion of the State Audit Office is that the adoption of the strategy should not have been delayed. Dear Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs, to remove all these irregularities and failures, the State Audit Office has given orders and recommendations and must be followed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114336	Thank you, too, dear Chief State Auditor. Now we're going to the replicas first. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner. He's gone. He's losing his right. Dear Representative Kresimir Bubalo, replicas are all about the presentation of respected Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114337	Thank you very much. There will be a lot of speeches today, but the respected deputy minister has reached out to Mr. Radinovic, Mr. Baranovic. But I don't think he needed it, because it's exactly the state's chief auditor who made it clear that he's expressed his conditional opinion to the Resort Ministry of Finance. Therefore, the audit report states that part of the irregularities determines the audits for earlier periods are also not corrected. But what is particularly eyebite, and you have looked back on a colleague of Baranovic's. Well, neither does the state pay messyly, and when you see that a billion and 959 million 545 thousand 433 kunas are not paid a commitment to the Ministry of Health, then it is seen that the ministry is carrying out its duties in a messy manner. But counterpart Baranovic spoke about the Payment Act and what we in agriculture often see not our farmers being subject to obligations. Therefore, it is the Ministry of Finance that has to worry about it and that we have the best payment from month to month, the more orderly service obligations, and when we see that you have received a conditional opinion, when we see that the Ministry of Finance does not carry out its obligations neatly, which then we can only think about those tycoons that misrepresent their obligations to farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114338	Replication response, deputy deputy minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I didn't commit to Mr. Baranovic. I only noticed he wasn't there at that hour in the hall, and I felt compelled to react to, therefore, the opening part of this debate. However, I thank Mr Baranovic for warning us about this and, as I said in the opening, we can and we will and we have responded already here for the authorities to see what we are certainly dealing with. Of course we can't have all payment deadlines in our head. I just said, and I think the facts confirm that this government is having a hard time objecting to the fact that it has not put atrocity to its efforts to settle relations on the economic market, on the financial market, on payment deadlines, etc. Well, that's exactly the kind of law we've passed since the fresh and well-sunned finance minister was here. You remember the amount of law in this government we've been making for the stabilisation of the financial market and for the introduction of financial discipline. Should I mention again fiscal accounts and a similar story, and we remember how many criticisms that I am now not being mean and I remember on this side of the assembly how many criticisms there have been about these projects and about the inability, etc. Therefore, this government is and will insist on raising financial discipline as long as it can. Of course, the situation won't be ideal and that when you come from a bad state, you can't make things better. Democracy is in an African country to reach the level of Great Britain or the United States will take some time, and this time of ours requires, this effort takes some time. But as I often like to say in a joke, as in that Bosnian-Herzegovina movie every day, we are making more progress in every respect and I believe that we will use this possibility for the next 6 months, and hopefully for the next 4 years, because Croatia needs additional and further stabilisation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114340	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114341	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, I'm going to do something a little different from you. After several months since the start of this government agency's mandate, credit rating countries have learned the reform potential of the Kukuriku Government and granted us a level that is popularly called garbage. After three and a half years of office we are still at the same level as the defeating fact I think for all of us who are involved in politics, for you, for all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I know you'll answer this question in a way that despite that fact, we're in charge of it cheaper, etc. But it is also a fact that despite the fact that there is cheap money for many countries with better credit ratings, they owe us less than we do. I'm asking you what you've done as a government over the past three and a half years to move at least one level higher, so that in the future, we can provide greater opportunities for the state itself. And the second question is about the realisation of certain ministries. The regional development ministries have managed to implement the entire 480 million kuna in the development of rural area 120 failed to spend. The only one worse than the Greek minister in realisation in 2014 was Minister Maras. It is this which every day spins some wheels on public television and forgets in 2014 to spend 320 million kuna of 640. Of course, it does not prevent him from teaching everyone how and what to do. So we don't develop rural space, we don't help the economy, and then we take the right to teach everyone how to do something in this country. Mr. Deputy Minister, I think the exit from the crisis is far away and the citizens simply see that exit more and more at the border crossings of Bregana, Hole and beyond, and that's the saddest story you haven't said anything about, you've just been reporting information that has nothing to do with the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114342	Thank you very much. Replication response, deputy deputy minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114343	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So it's my job that when the agenda item is the State Budget Implementation Report that I present the figures that are certainly related to the truth and it has shown and proved the State Audit report. There was a minor discrepancy over the bookmaking process, all previous years there were greater and more discrepancies, etc. And because of the difference in methodology, and next year we'll probably talk about problems about HZZO coming out of the Treasury, so we'll talk about it. We have a problem with monitoring and everything, but I say budget implementation ultimately I think it shows greater orderliness than the implementation of the budget of the previous year and all previous years backwards. And I think that's the trend on which we should be proud not to the end satisfied, not satisfied in a complete sense. We should try to move on. You said what we did to improve the situation for international borrowing, so it was an excuse to give a brief political speech on why this government is wrong, why certain ministries are good or bad. We'll probably never agree on that. It's your right and your ability to express your critical note, I think otherwise. The indicators that I was talking about, and on that side, I may have abused because I wasn't really talking about the subject, but I think it's also important for this Parliament to say about the latest trends in the macro-economy, we can also talk about budgeting. It is also charged in the first six months. So I was talking about going in a positive direction after six years, and I think that's good. Of course, we will never agree whether the EU funds are completed or not, whether Mr Maras' projects are completed or not. I, unlike you, think they're made optimally, almost at the peak of those possibilities and about it in the end line we'll be facing the spear. But don't say, Mr. Representative, that I've been saying numbers that have nothing to do with the truth. That was your last line, because all of these figures are in the full truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114344	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114345	Where do you start? Of one illogicality that really takes epic proportions. The economy ministry had a billion and 454 million kuna budget. Let's take a little economy, 476 million kuna, or the tourism ministry 220 million kuna. Now, what man simply cannot believe, on page 59, is that the data collected found that a total of 560 million kunas were allocated from public sources at national level in 2013 to programmes and projects of civil society organisations through tenders, public calls and other programmes implemented by 24 state bodies. From the budget of the local and regional self-government units, they were allocated another billion and 44 million kuna. Total in 2013 from public sources in the Republic of Croatia projects and programmes in civil society organisations was allocated a billion and 604 million 923 thousand 803 kuna and 68 June. A billion and 604 million kuna! This is the equivalent of the budget of the Ministry of Economy, out of a billion and 465 million kuna and the Ministry of Tourism combined. I think, gentlemen, if we really want that economy to start, mostly small, which last year had a drop in revenue compared to the planned original plan of even 41% that something must be done about it. The small economy is simply a Krahir, they are becoming more difficult from day to day, I almost dare say to these little craftsmen, craftsmen, etc. It's harder than the workers who work with them. I repeat, these illogicalities, these numbers and this one I say
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114346	Thank you very much. Replication response, deputy deputy minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I forgot to say in the introduction that therefore the government has a whole, consisting of ministries and each one for himself is somehow responsible for his business. I forgot to say that among the eight ministries in 2013 if I am not mistaken, 1 of the ministries has received a positive opinion, and at the criticism of Mr Boris, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds therefore has an unconditional opinion and according to the PS, so to speak, it has done its job. To relate to your replica about the substantial amount of funds that goes to associations, goes from the state budget and much more from the local budget, we see that the local budgets for the first time had a significant loss in the previous year before these mini tax changes when objectively they would have some difficulty in seeing that local self-governments have an increase in the number of employees in the past few years, unlike the state that has reduced the number of employees. These are healthy indicators, i.e. health information on which a single state, one government, one Parliament can and ultimately must pass laws and which speak of tax policy among other things. And I believe it will be the foundation. I'm up for that initial debate about the introduction of financial discipline. So exactly the Law on Financial Business and Accounting of Non-profit Organizations is a step forward in far better and better quality monitoring of the spending of various non-profit organisations, so associations. And we've had a lot of criticism about why we've visited some, why haven't we, have we gone deep enough? On the one hand, in Parliament, we had a criticism of many associations to get into their business, to push them into independence, that it was not good for the state to resist so much, but I say that the law also proved to be a step forward in raising the transparency of public money management. The money that goes in this direction, you've said well, Mr. Representative, is big and it's good that we all decide together that he should be both transparently and effectively supervised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114348	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114349	Thank you very much. Since I'm the first to discuss two things very briefly. On the occasion of the adoption of the budget for 2015 The government has thrown out of the Budget Law a provision regulating the amount of public debt. It has been said to be regulated by the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Since you were talking about the Fiscal Responsibility Act, I'd like to know when that's gonna happen. And as far as financial discipline is concerned, I don't remember that in the State Audit report, there was a finding that it was an unworthy display of the deficit, I don't remember. If it ever stood, I apologize, but I think I have a good memory. For the first time in the State Audit report, it actually appeared that the State Audit found that it was an unworthy display of the deficit due to the use of different accounting policies. And I'll talk about it later. And another thing when you mentioned the accounting of non-profit organisations, please, is the basketball alliance being conducted according to the accounting of non-profit organisations or according to the Accounting Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114350	Replication response, deputy deputy minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So on this last question of yours there are obviously other public opinion, the final case to say sports commission and if I'm not mistaken by... I'm told by my colleague, Bajo, by a nonprofit, so according to this, we're going to try to continue in this regard, but consider that I can't get everyone out of my head to answer the exam like this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I wasn't really getting ready for that part of the exam, so I'm going to tell you about it because my colleague Bajo is continuity and waist in this regard and one of the main writers of this law that I mentioned, so the accounting of non-profit organizations. The criticism about the public debt that is not, that our methodology has been the same all these years, and now the revision has gone a little deeper and that's my line that I always have to say why it's good to go in and why it's good to be as precise and strict as possible to say so in assessing budget users' money spending. I remember some of my former times were related to the City of Zagreb so the State Audit report in the City of Zagreb was 7.8 pages of the first year, today on 200 pages. Not much has changed in the business of the City of Zagreb. Simply the state audit has greater capacities, greater possibilities, they are better organised to be able to learn more deeply and more strongly about the review of certain situations. And it's good that it is. And we all have to help keep it that way together. That's why this 300 million difference. As far as the Fiscal Responsibility and Public Debt Act is concerned, in fact the public debt that's defined in the Budget Law, what you said, we threw him out so we said we'd put him in the Fiscal Responsibility Act. We have not brought before you the Fiscal Responsibility Act because we are waiting for the European Commission's position in this regard. 6.7 is a meeting in Zagreb, we believe, we have appealed that in this respect we will get the final answer to our proposals. We believe and hope that this final answer will be heard at the 6.7 meetings, I say in a few days in Zagreb on Monday and that we will then be ready to pass before the Parliament a Law on fiscal responsibility along with that provision. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114352	Thank you very much. My warning from the President's desk, so the Parliament is not an arbitration officer nor gives credible interpretations beyond the rules of procedure. Well, every position here doesn't oblige the Parliament unless it's under procedure for the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I had to say it because it's important for the public. ... If you want to be an arbiter, don't throw it away. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114353	Your Honor, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, I'm surprised by what you said. Your exposure is one simple pamphlet, we can still give a pre-election pamphlet and nothing more. We can use the phonogram to determine that a year and a half ago, I said if we don't change our economic policy, we'll be worse off than Greece. You're worse than... For at least they give to the pensioners, and you throw money at those who don't need it in this country, your most trabants who will go out on the street tomorrow are silent today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mostly in these 3.5.4 years, you have brought Croatia's debt from 48% to 90%, so 10% of the year's GDP is due. And if we were still four years in power, it's 140, 150% worse than in Greece. It's not the country's deficit you said, it's 20 billion, 20 billion. And otherwise, you're telling the data incorrectly. When I said pamphlet, you said the health care spent 22 billion, right here on the Internet I downloaded what you signed 23 million 765, 23 billion and 765 etc. So that's not exactly what you're saying. It's just like one argument to you. Therefore, in every correct, or normal state, this government should, in a decent state, resign and discuss urgent elections. Because if it keeps going like this, we're really gonna get worse than in Greece, we're gonna be banging our heads against the wall, and we're not gonna have any more andols or pills to cure a headache.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114354	I hope the answer from Deputy Minister Igor Radenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you told Mr. Honorable Representative Marasovic that you were surprised with my argument, that she was just a pamphlet and I'm not surprised with your replica, I'm used to it and I have nothing to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114356	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114357	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we could paraphrase Shakespeare and say, "There's something rotten in the state of Croatia." In fact, of course Shakespeare wrote that if you didn't know. So he had the fact that the deputy minister comes before the Croatian Parliament and says the deficit last year is 4.1%. That's not true. Why? Because the State Statistics Institute announced that last year the deficit was 18.8 billion kuna, representing 5.7% of GDP. The state audit said your data wasn't reliable. That's what the state's audit report says when we talk about the country's deficit. So 5.7% of GDP, not 4.1, as you here assure the Croatian public. Your problem is even bigger because, according to this type of accounting and such monitoring, the European Commission and the European Commission are acting on the basis of their fiscal supervision of the EU Member States precisely on this basis. ESA 2010 methodology. And there's your problem. We probably wouldn't even be in the excessive deficit procedure, probably. So how can you come to the Croatian public today when we have data from the State Statistics Institute that clearly says that the deficit last year was 18.8 billion kuna or 5.7% of GDP, how can you come here and say that the deficit is $12.8 billion or 4.1%)? Who are you kidding here, who are you trying to deceive? The European Commission, which also says the deficit in Croatia was 5.7% because it recognises exactly this methodology that was made in the DZS. You speak of the debt of the general state is exactly said colleague Marasovic, he grew from 48% to 85% in your term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114358	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114359	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I wasn't focused enough at the beginning as I was saying to see if you were present in the hall and if you were listening to my speech. I have said several sentences precisely in this direction to talk about the national methodology, that I also spoke to the Committee on Finance and often spoke publicly about the ESA methodology in 2010 and that it is good to have it, but that in this House all these years and the mandates of this Government and the previous governments we talk about and talk about national methodology as it happens in all other parliaments in Europe. The statistical methodology is something else, the statistical methodology of ESA 2010 helps us compare deficits and that it is no secret, the ESA deficit for the past year is 18.7%, which is published by DZS, 18.7 billion kuna and on this side is public data and you have it everywhere and on our websites and we always communicate and communicate to Europe. But what is important is the budget on which the methodology is adopted on that methodology has to be reported. So we don't manipulate numbers. I'm not going to talk about this situation any further. But if you're already challenging me and I'm talking about the ESA methodology the same DZS published the ESA methodology backwards in 2011 and the biggest deficit in that series was 25 billion kuna in 2011. So it's not good to politicize here, I've been trying and trying not to politicize, but here I am now challenged by looking at the same methodology of the 2011 budget as the last year of the HDZ government's mandate with Mrs. Jadranka Kosor was 25 and a few billion kunas. So I'm going to get an answer to that and I'm happy to listen, but I'm not going any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114360	Thank you, too. You're a very correct respected deputy minister. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114361	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister. When the State Office for Auditing a weak teamed unit of local self-government determines a conditional opinion on budgetary management because not all expenditure in the current year is included in the budget expenditure, then I can prescribe it to the ignorance and weak personnel teamed units of local self-government. But when the State Audit Office finds the Ministry of Finance a conditional opinion on budget management and that is what the Ministry of Finance educates all over the state of employees in local self-government how to run a municipal or city budget, then I prescribe the intention that gray and dreary reality is shown to be pink or better than it is. So it's exclusively about the intention to show a better state of public finances than they are in nature. And if we add that to that, the IMF and the Committee on Fiscal Policy have said that the deficit is not 4.1 but 5.7, then I find it scandalous, but... you're going over it and you're not looking at it and you're relativating it. And speaking of the orderly management of the state budget, I would be interested in the fact that the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Siniša Hajdaš Doncic announced at the 9th month that the beginning of works on the Pelješek Bridge was eaten somewhere in the positions of the state budget or extra-profit users or Croatian roads provided a point that could be legally entered into the financing of the Pelješka Bridge in 2015 or perhaps it was one of the inflatable balloons in the pre-election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114362	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114363	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's the second in the profession not an economist interpreting what a budget is, and it's not a budget deficit. I will clearly repeat here, that the budget according to the ESA methodology budget deficit is 5.7 nicely you said, is and is one of the biggest deficits of the budget, is one of the largest in the euro, yes, but it is smaller than the previous years and the trend is positive. So the report on this budget must be in cash methodology and if we change the rules, we change them together and we report to the ESA methodology. And I think we're going to be the first country in Europe or there's some Scandinavian, I'm not sure one or two countries, so all countries are reporting in cash. Let's make a different arrangement, suggest a change of laws, and we'll discuss it differently, and we'll do the definition. I say the old budget we made for 2011 according to the ESA methodology and it was 25.6 billion and I have to do it again. As for opening works on the Pelješko bridge, I can't remember at this time whether 3 or 4 times was the opening ceremony, right before the elections, I can't remember. I can't remember which marketing agency has invested hundreds of thousands or millions of kunas in making it brighter, the better, I can't remember what was on the menu, I can't remember anything because I wasn't there. I can only read the media reports. But I know that not once and it was never planned in the budget or it was some symbolic purpose. So, Mr. Bacic, don't give that kind of lesson. If I haven't seen that announcement by Mr. Hajdash, if it isn't a year, it won't go into any action unless the funds are secured. All must be provided with funds in the budget and that is what is good in this government and, as far as they are not, it is also possible to secure them with budget rebalancing. So don't impute us to do what you did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114364	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the replicas and answers to the replicas. Do the presidents of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee wish to present their reports? Yeah. Dear Representative Zdravko Ronko, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, is that right, colleague Ronko?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114365	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with an associate. On its 46th session, held on 10 June 2015, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction discussed the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget for 2014 as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the Ministry's representative presented the basic data and elements that marked the 2014 budget and presented the discussion that the implementation of the plan at the distribution of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning amounted to just over 769 million kuna, which is more than planned in the amount of 103 million kuna. Or 103% more than... This is partly the result of the implementation of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings and, therefore, in the budgetary units of local and regional self-government and the state budget, around 880 million kunas were paid with the dynamics of further growth, and significant funds from the municipal contribution and the municipal compensation were added to the budgets of municipalities and cities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the Law on the Rehabilitation of the disaster in Vukovar-Srijem County prescribed that the restoration of buildings affected by the flood in May 2014 would be financed between the other and the legalisation and reconstruction funds of buildings in the area affected by the disaster, around 130 million kuna were spent and an additional 25 million kuna was spent from the same recovery sources this year. In addition to the funds collected by the application of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, the reconstruction of buildings in the flooded area has been highlighted and the budget has been provided by last year's rebalancing at the position of the APN 100 million kuna, and the budget of 2015 amounting to 161.5 million kuna. It is noted that the reconstruction of buildings in the area affected by the floods in May 2014 has so far spent 416 million kuna and the funds for reconstruction from APN have already been spent. The funds for completing the flood recovery process of the affected area will be provided from the legalisation fees collected. The debate also expressed the view that the future state budget should provide more funding in the event of a disaster so that the funds could be allocated to areas affected by a major elemental disaster. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Business Planning and Construction decided by majority vote, 6-1 to propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the annual report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114366	Thank you, too, Mr. President-in-Office of the Board. Are the other presidents, representatives? Yeah. Dear Representative Frano Matušić. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114367	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the National Monitoring Council for the monitoring of the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, which has the status of a working body as you know. We discussed the State Audit Report in the section that...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114368	Excuse me, colleague, what body of work?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114369	National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114370	You are not the working body of the Croatian Parliament, I'm sorry. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114371	We have the status of a working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114372	You don't. The National Council is something else. ... I read the Rules of Procedure, go find him. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] None Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Second working body.]] Thank you very much, no, we will not violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114373	Looks like you don't want to hear the opinion of the National Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114374	We'll hear, report tomorrow, report, report. We don't want to violate the Rules of Procedure, and we won't discuss it anymore. Do the other working bodies want or do they not want? No, I don't. We're going into debate. We're going into debate in 20 minutes by clubs. The Club of the Croatian Democratic Community and Honored counterpart Ivan Shuker are coming. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114375	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister with Associates, Mr. Chief State Auditor with Associates. My colleagues and colleagues in serious times are a very serious subject that does not suffer any politics. Because Greece is the best example of what happens to those who politically want to solve serious things. That is why before I look back at the Croatian Democratic Community's opinion on the 2014 budget, I would like to present several findings that are simply inconclusive and factual and each of you can think about them, as well as the Croatian public. The first is that the second year in a row, the Fiscal Commission says the fiscal rule has not been met. The fiscal commission is in a certain way and the body of this High House and it's very interesting that for the second year, we are going over very Benevolently through the fact that the Fiscal Commission says that we have not met the fiscal rule. The second is a fact that no one can dispute because it is simply true that Croatia has been the country with the highest increase in public debt in GDP of all members of the European Union even from Greece in the last 3 years. That's the facts. So in the last 3 years, we have had an increase of over 30% of the public debt in GDP. The third thing that is the most dangerous and the worst is that the credit risk premium only Greeks have a higher risk premium on loans from the Republic of Croatia and it moves depending on the financial market between 2.75 and 3.25, while, for example, Slovenians have 0.75 or translated in the beginning, the Croatian state, Croatian citizens, the Croatian economy pays interest by 2%. So these are facts and they're just like that and no one can unfortunately change them at this point. However, what is definitely being debated today in this High House on this subject raises the question of what is the real deficit of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Is this what the Government is saying or is what the International Monetary Fund said and what EUROSTAT said or what the State Audit Office said because if the Government already claims to have some kind of national methodology so finally count what the difference is between the national methodology and EUROSTAT. And another thing to look back at here in 2011. It is very interesting that the government made an effort two years ago to calculate according to EUROSTAT in 2010. what was the deficit in 2011. According to that deficit, they counted it for 2011 today, Croatia has a deficit of 23 billion kuna. Why? The 2011 deficit includes all the guarantees that the Croatian state has assumed in the shipbuilding restructuring programme of 9.5 billion kuna. It also included debt repayment for pensioners and other things, and that's why the deficit rose from 15 to 20.5 billion. In this way, all the guarantees given to Croatian railways come to what we come to, but we leave it on the side. These are facts that no one can change either. However, what does this report on the implementation of the State budget offer and confirm? So two basic sides, on the one hand, additional tax burden has been imposed on Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy and the other thing, on the spending side, it is seen that structural reforms have not been implemented, so let's get going. So the VAT rate for catering services has been increased, not for tourism completely, from 10 to 13%, and that's about a billion and more kuna for you. There are increased excise duties on gasoline and cigarettes, increased gambling taxes, increased health contributions from 13% to 15%, and that's about 2 billion kuna. Also, the second pillar of pension does not count on income, but they did count on it but in 2015 there is no pension rate and that is 2.9 billion kuna for you. Also, the permanent stories of the vice-president of the Greek government and his government counterparts that Croatia is very successful in withdrawing funds from EU funds, in this report on the implementation of the state budget, it has been confirmed that the story is quite different and that the results are quite opposite, in fact, diametrically opposite. So the year came with the story of withdrawing about 4 billion and 300 from the EU funds, and then the rebalancing of the first one, and then the second rebalance fell to 2 billion 900, but only 2 billion and 100 were withdrawn. And it's simply an answer whether someone was successful or not. And colleagues and colleagues, if we had been successful then the deficit of the state budget would have been 2 billion kunas smaller. So these are facts that you can't escape from. The spending party, therefore, simply confirms that structural reforms have not been implemented. Certain savings achieved in the cost of employees and material costs are solely due to the non-execution of provisions contracted by collective agreement which... will certainly have one bar of lawsuits and the question is how much will it ultimately cost. So if you've read that data from the State Audit report, I think their assessment and estimate that the potential costs of the lawsuits are 3.5 billion kuna in the next period. What we have been saying in the HDZ Club for a very long time is that various accounting rules have started to apply in the public finances records, and it is very difficult to monitor in a consistent manner when, in the ministry's financial report, you have one information and in the report on the implementation of the state budget you have other information. So if this national methodology is applied, then all budgetary users should simply be ordered to apply it, so it will be consistent and it will be very simple to follow. Like that. 360 billion at the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Economy is in charge of factoring to cover the obligations in shipbuilding. This was shown in their financial report until, at the same time, the Ministry of Finance presented the report on the implementation of the state budget. 100 million for HBOR. I remember right here discussing HBOR funds. These are the funds provided by the Ministry of Finance as financial resources to support HBOR for export insurance. Unfortunately, however, those who were to use these funds in such a way did not use them in such a way but, in other words, they used these funds in principle to carry out the activities of certain ministries because they wanted the resolution ministers, and then these funds can no longer be treated as funds from the financing account but must be treated simply as a regular business cost and that is 100 million kuna. So one good intention is that ministers are not able to do what they need to do but want to finance some activities, unfortunately they are brought into the situation that brings us into it, which is that we are untrustworthy. What I've been saying for a long time, and that's how real the obligations in Croatian health have come. My colleagues and colleagues, we heard from the Minister of Health last year, from the Prime Minister's late announcements now the situation in health care will be resolved because we have singled out health care from the Treasury at the Croatian Health Insurance Office. But if you remember in the financial plan of the HZZO, you didn't have a drop secured to cover the losses of the previous year, but you also don't have that in the draft budget, in fact, in the budget adopted here in this House, you don't have a billion and 800 million to cover the commitments made from the previous year, and it's already said that for the first six months minus in health, regardless of the excellent results under quotes and exit from the Treasury somewhere around a billion kuna. So when you add it all together, it's two billion and 800 million kuna, and in the end when I'm talking about finding the State Audit, then I'm going to look back at it. And where did we come from? We have reached a deficit of 18.7 billion or 5.7% of gross domestic product. The question is what will be the treatment of these 5.6 billion guarantees every year given to Croatian railway companies HZ Cargo, HZ Infrastructure, etc. What's their statistical treatment going to be? But let's stick to this 18.7 billion with a big question book as long as there's no health records and how far this hasn't been recorded. And for the end of this story about the implementation of the budget in this part, so at this point every employee Croat on his back carries 250,000 kuna of public debt. In the past 3 years, every Croatian employee has received 75,000 public debt on his back. Or if you take about 70,000 public debt at this time is on the back of every Croatian citizen. However, 2014 is over, it is almost 6 months 2015 and what concerns me most is what the situation will be at the end of 2015. Why? Because some of the obligations that will be spent this year were created, and in 2016 there was no more income from the second pillar of the pension, and the Government did not practically cover any expenditure position with structural reforms to patch up those 2 billion and 900. However, it announces some new tax discharges which question is how you're going to get into the budget. It's nice to be a populist. And some populists came to Greece, so you see where they are today. And what's happening now with public finances and colleagues and colleagues, I have no intention of what I'm going to say shooting. When you look at the State Audit's finding on how to keep records in state public finances, then it's very difficult to talk about any order. But Otto, then. What is definitely needed at this point is to rebalance the budget, because the budget that we have adopted and the measures that the government sent to Brussels in the fifth month has nothing to do with each other. So at this point, the budget is being memorized. I say it here in public because there's a representative of the State Audit. So, at the time she took measures to prevent the excessive deficit, the government also had to bring in budget rebalances. And the last question when we talk about budgeting, does anyone think about what's going to happen this year with local self-government units? Does anyone think that at this point many local self-government units in the area of special state care are in front of a blockade of accounts. Never in the history of the Croatian state has it happened, which is since '94. the year the income tax return started because it applies from 1.1.'93. the year did not happen that the Ministry of Finance sent a letter to local self-government units that so much and so much money had to be paid back on income tax. If the government has said that it has provided assistance to these units to recover income tax money, so why is it that if it plans to do so today for tomorrow that what I know of the municipality of x, y should have a return on income of 50,000, so why doesn't it transfer 50,000 from those funds and thus solve the problem? However, it is definitely a fact that the amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and the amendment of the Taxation Act on the income of the local self-government unit have left no more than a billion and 800 million kuna. That's what we need to talk about today, not in the sixth month of next year. Because in the sixth month of next year, those units will be in big trouble like they are in big trouble right now. So, unfortunately, all of this suggests that Croatia is where it is and that all of these stories about some positive macroeconomic indicators will unfortunately not change for a fraction of these assessments at the beginning. And now something about the State Audit report. Therefore, as the government functions first practically, the Ministry of Finance had to provide the names of the responsible persons for the implementation of the strategic plans for the period 2015/2017. Ten debtors delivered it to the Ministry of Finance, 28 did not. Smart enough, and the rest of them I have no intention of convincing anymore. The second thing is that jobs are related to strategic planning and organisation at the level of special establishment units, which should be given the importance and importance and role of the ministry, the finance has in establishing the development of the overall strategic planning process. Remember when we discussed strategic planning here in this High House that we warned about. Not a ministry that's not teamed up, which has no experience running something that only the Ministry of Finance can run, exclusively. But we're where we are. The State Audit Office is of the opinion that the objectives of the recovery of health care relating to the setting of deadlines, the fulfilment of monetary obligations and deadlines laid down by law and the reorganisation, the rationalisation of business in order to ensure business stability, have not been achieved although they are... significant funds have been spent because the obligations of health institutions and HZZO have been further significant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, neither the State Audit Office can say with great accuracy what the obligations of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance are. And in the end, I have to say something regardless of what I may be personally exposed to certain attacks and everything, but that's what I got used to when I was a minister. However, as a parliamentary representative, I have to talk about something but in a slightly different way, which is the privatisation of Croatia's insurance. So, not getting into who bought it and how much he bought it. People responded fairly to the competition, paid far more than some price that was, but why am I saying this? I think some things just happened that shouldn't have happened. Why was Croatia's share capital of insurance reduced? Why did the fundamental, actually not, asset value shrink? Why is the reduction of this value of property 100 million more than the basic capital of Croatia's insurance? If shares of Croatian insurance were traded, amounts that were over 5000 kuna per share and in the books of the shares of Croatia are worth 1400 kuna, why have certain adjustments not been made there? But what makes me the biggest mistake, and I just can't understand why it happened, it's recapitalisation. So the offerer did the capitalisation as he offered and as it was adopted. However, it is a very interesting way in which these funds of capitalisation have been spent. Therefore, for recapitalisation funds, the bidder bought, actually received 122,442 shares or 28% and paid 681 million for it, however it is very interesting that these shares were purchased by 7140 as well as those 39%, but when the decision was taken to capitalize, therefore the company at the value of the shares of 1400 kuna, and the rest between the amounts paid from the capital injection of 680 thousand kuna is indicated in capital reserves or premiums for the issued shares. That's something that's very strange. So the congregation of society had to make some kind of decision. I don't know how we can talk about recapitalisation on 1400 kuna shares if the value of shares on the market, so in a public tender, it has reached a value of 7140 kuna. But that's how it is. I just don't want to talk about whether we should have followed this or that law. These are financial things that should be thought about and thought about. And definitely Croatia's insurance did not need to reduce the value of the property, it did not need recapitalisation because during that Racan coalition government and during the HDZ government, no profit was withdrawn from Croatia's insurance, and it had a retained profit from over 300 million kuna years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114376	Thank you, Your Honor. We have 10 replicas reported but before the replica we have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114377	Thank you, Mr. President. An article in Article 54 that you did not give me as president of a working body, I speak to the working body, to state the position of that working body. And this working body is the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. Because it was founded on the basis of the article
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114378	I understand what you're saying is that I hurt myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114379	Yeah, like another working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114380	Thank you very much, I get it. I'm staying at what I told you on the way out. I have also consulted the decision to set up a working body and you see what your jurisdiction is. As president, you certainly know that, and you need to know otherwise you'll hurt your own decision based on what you're doing. And in the Rules of Procedure for which I am responsible, you are not listed as a working body. Thank you very much. You're not listed as a working body, I told you. [[Upadica Matušić: As second working body.]] Thank you very much. I am still obliged to warn you and instruct you if you are not satisfied with my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, please contact the competent body of the Croatian Parliament and we will democratically close the dispute [[Upadica Matušić: We are formed by the basis of the article Constitution 80.]] Which cube of fellow Matusic? [[Invader Matušić: Is that the competent body in the Cube, where?]] I didn't understand which cube? ... Priscilla? [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] What does the Cube have to do with interpreting the Rules of Procedure? Let's hear it out loud. ... Tell your colleague, Matušić, you have a chance and you say it. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114381	The rest is unconscious.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114382	Who?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114383	Well, obviously to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114384	To me? Thank you very much. I think you've missed both the subject and the person and the time. And that's just a sign of your anxiety. I don't mind, to be honest with you, even if you're right. Thank you very much. So let's go to the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114385	Dear fellow Shuker, you have begun your presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club with Greece. I don't think that's good. Yes, you started with Greece, I don't think that's good because any comparison of Croatia when it comes to finance, the state of the budget with Greece is not good for more reasons. First, which is not the same and we are not fortunate in the same position as Greece, and any insinuation and mention of Greece in the context of the debate on the budget and state of state finances is really not good. Second, which is not patriotic. You know we don't have to, we have some problems as a state, we don't have them since yesterday, we have them for years, and it's not good to defile the situation even more than it is. That's not patriotic. It is not nice, especially not nice from a party considered and considered to be the main party of the patriotic coalition. Is patriotism only for you when you are in power, and when others are in power then nothing is wrong in Croatia. And the third thing, the most mentioned party and the person Tsipras from Syriz who are mentioned these days have not brought Greece into these problems, Greece has been in trouble since before. They're trying to solve, well or not since then, but they're trying. Therefore, any comparison and launch of the debate with Greece is not good, especially not good from HDZ, who has done well in all our problems and who has been in power for twenty, eighteen, twenty years in Croatia. So even when you're talking about the deficit, you're talking about 18 billion again, even though by our methodology, we see that it's 12.8. That methodology you're talking about when it would change, you've only made 64 billion in the last 3 years of your reign since 2009 to 2011. It is 23% of Croatia's total public debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114386	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114387	Mr. President, I risk getting a warning, but I said that in times of such a difficult situation when Greece is, and that was the only mention of Greece, politics must not be allowed. And now I'm going to add political chatter because my colleague Jelusic definitely has Croatia's biggest growth in public debt in GDP over the past 3 years. Croatia has definitely not met the fiscal rule in the past 2 years and definitely Croatia currently has the highest credit risk after Greece. And I just said when I mentioned political populism, then I was talking about Greece. And I didn't pull that parallel with either of these or any government at all, but generally. Another thing, colleague Jelusic, if used as you do, then the deficit of this country at this point is 22, 23 billion kuna, that's a fact and you can't escape from it. That's why I said when you were talking about 2011, and I told you two years ago, don't play with the fire because the fire will come to your yard. You played with fire to show that it was a catastrophic situation although everyone from the European Commission knows from 2008 that the Croatian state has taken over 9.5 billion guarantees from shipbuilding. It is a fact just like this government gives guarantees to the Croatian railways to try to get away with it. And that's a fact and we all know it in this House and there's no right for anyone in this House to say that he didn't know about it tomorrow. So that's what I'm talking about, colleague Jelusic. Let's not say we didn't know if we all knew. Why? Because when you adopt each budget and clearly write a list of guarantees issued and you won't hear from me in 2 or 3 years to say that I didn't know how many guarantees were given to Croatian railways. Why? Well, because we discussed it in this high house.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114388	Thank you very much, fellow Shucker. You said yourself that you intend to offend, that you intend to offend a fellow representative. ... Don't bother me to finish my thought. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You said I wanted to tell you, despite my risk of warning, that's what you said, so that intention really can't stay just for you to promote yourself as a person who knows it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure and that I keep my mouth shut about it. You've earned a real reminder as I say it to you. Thank you very much. You, too. [[Intruder Shucker: Good for you.]] Thank you, too. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114389	Now, I ask you to listen to your colleague's next line so you can respond. Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114390	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed colleague will be sure to discuss what the cash or cash method is as said by Mr. Deputy Minister or the ESA 2010 method. Therefore, these methodologies will be used further because the cash national model shows essentially the state of income and expenditure to be realised. The ESA 2010 difference, you know that, but here's the thing for the public, it's audited for what? Because even though 3 billion kunas are paid from the second pension stake for the treatment of insured insurance companies and that's real. The funds were settled in the state budget in the Treasury and used in accordance with the budget. However, the European Commission, EUROSTAT on my ESA 2010 methodology, which I accept as well as all EU countries, says it does not recognise as income, and therefore we are growing the deficit according to the 2010 methodology. So these are very plastic, simple explanations, which are why there are 2 methodologies, which will send these methodologies further because what's important for the state budget, for the treasure to know how far it's gone and how far it's gone. It's a cash method. And this methodology revised in 2010 indicates and shows certain macroeconomic imbalances that include or exclude certain assets that are real and paid and used afterwards. And this methodology will be for 2015 and will be used by other EU countries for 2016, and we always need to have a national one with this approach and a methodology called ESA 2010 or tomorrow another one that will be realistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114391	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114392	Now I have to watch out that I'm going to use them Croatian because SDP hasn't yet created a manual that can't be used, but I don't know how to respond to someone's ignorance. Because if I'm not mistaken, the second pillar of the pension has been taken away, which will be the cost of the state budget in the future. Why? Because those who went under special regulations in retirement, so the benefited employment rate paid the second pillar of pension and when they retired from the second pillar of the pension, the funds were paid into the state budget. And we've paid the full amount of these funds to the state budget and they're going to retire tomorrow will be completely on the burden of the pension system, but there won't be a payment of the pension budget. Therefore, according to the ESA 2010 methodology, this cannot be considered as State budget revenue. But it's great to me how you knew what to push in 2011 to make it look this much, and today you don't know how to put the same old one. So here's when you've split the budget of 6 billion guarantees, out of 6 billion guarantees at least 5.5 billion will be charged from the state budget and according to the ESA 2010 methodology, after two years, that's what the government budget deficit counts for. Therefore, let's not fool Croatian people, so these are not exactly crazy or the IMF or the ESA 2010 then they would write, is according to the national methodology of Croatia's deficit of the state budget so much, but according to our methodology there is so much. However, you do not have this in any text or Eurostat or in any IMF text. While you were speaking earlier, you had previously in each IMF report that the Croatian deficit was accounted for by... the methodology agreed with the IMF and the IMF representatives sent it to Brussels. And that was true, and as we approached EU accession, these differences were increasingly decreasing. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114393	And my colleague Shuker, and now time's up, you didn't warn me that I didn't interrupt. Clear Mesic, replica. ... My colleague Jasen Mesic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114394	I've called before, you've got it all wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114395	I have such a order you respect how I have written.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114396	But my colleague Mesic says I'm the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114397	That's how I'm listed. Don't make a problem. You're behind colleagues, Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114398	Good, since Vice President of the Parliament, we have greater hope that this session will be conducted more correctly, we will accept as she has said. Your esteemed colleague Shuker was seen from your statement that you well know the state budget and that you have detected the main problems and in some ways you have pointed out exactly the most problematic things about the budget. You obviously didn't have enough time to question some ministries. Let's say so interesting is the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts which has an index of implementation of their budget less than 60. Every minister of finance if he saw it then he would, of course, say so that the minister obviously doesn't need it, and that ministry obviously doesn't need those planned funds when it doesn't know how to use them. And be careful about the ministry that should be responsible for encouraging the entrepreneurship of crafts, which we all swear is very important to us in the Republic of Croatia for economic growth. This ministry has managed to record a series of videos, arrange various productions, who knows what roles, etc. First of all, you think absolutely of the minister, and look at the realisation of their budget. You have other situations, let's say that in the Ministry of Culture when you look at the realisation of the budget you see that almost all the items are realized 100%, watch 100% more than 2/3 of the items is so fantastic, it's just a very shifted item for so-called. non-profit media whose only concern is nothing more than to be non-profit and at the same time serve as a covert PR agency. Well, we can interpret fellow Shuker that actually the ministries that we're in charge of some things are doing the budget this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114399	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114400	A fellow Mesic, one of the key objections of the State Audit, is the problem of budget planning. Don't forget that the rebalancing of the state budget was in early December. And it's very interesting how someone thought to share nearly 200 million incentive funds in 20 days, and it's known that you need to call a public tender for the distribution of these funds. And then it happens that the Ministry of Finance does what it did every year, that at one point, it locks up the treasure shop and says gentlemen what you paid for, you pay no more, you don't throw yourself away with money. Now the question is, if the finance minister hadn't done what would have happened to these 200 million, where would they have ended up? That's a far more important question. But I'm saying that only to those who know how to teach,...to everyone in this country. How can you share nearly 200 million incentives in 15 days? And about how the Ministry of Culture was providing funds, about that. Good thing they're in the ruling coalition then it's transparent and normal, and if they were on the other side then they'd see what those same ones would say about transparency and normal things say about what's going on. On the other hand, my colleague Mesic is clearly telling you how and how order was introduced into public finances. Because if you have a budget rebalance at the beginning of the 12th month and then your expenditure at the end of the year is 2.5 billion kuna less than you asked for budget users 20 days ago, all the best talks about this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114401	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114402	Thank you very much. I listened carefully to your presentations and especially with credible data because if someone here has real knowledge to talk about finances, then you are certainly as former minister unlike those of others who defend the party of the SDP but at the same time protecting all those indicators that are not correct. It is evident that the state of Croatia is responsible for about 30% of its own GDP. I ask you that, 90%, I ask you to say with a letter and a number just how much this government boasts in its four-year term has increased Croatia's responsibilities because it is exactly what the public wants to hear. He just wants to hear it because they deceive the daily public with non-transparent data that we know best here that they're not accurate. On the other hand, local self-government units simply destroyed their income tax and indeed many units will remain in the blockade or may not be able to fulfil their obligations. My Požega, therefore, in Požega-Slavon County only 6 million kunas or County Požeko-Slavonska, fully looking with cities and municipalities over 20 million. So respected colleagues and colleagues, what kind of policy is this current government that really destroys local self-government units at every turn, that we are not talking about the use of funds, that we are not talking about Minister Maras who is advertised at the expense of taxpayers and who cannot spend the money he received from the European Union and leaves 320 million kunas unexpended. Really without every comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114403	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114404	Dear Lucic, let us not politicise using the documents that the representatives of this government presented to this High House. So at the start of this government's mandate when they put in 2011 everything they could and should have, that seems disastrous, the share of public debt in GDP was below 59%. So that's their data. At the end of this year, the share of public debt in GDP will be over 90%. So that's, let's just take 32% increase, that's over 100 billion kuna. So, if you divide these 100 billion kunas into 4 million and some more Croats, then it will turn out that for 25 thousand kunas, every Croat has been forced into the back of their politics for the past four years. They're facts and they can't be escaped. And the fact is, they haven't implemented structural reforms. And who was the last person killed in their famous tax changes that they cited as structural reforms? Local self-government units. So they took over 2.5 billion kunas from them and didn't practically return anything to them. And who was the most injured here again? Most of all, those poor women are units of special national concern. They now have problems such as they had in 2003 when their accounts were blocked due to income tax returns, so unfortunately they will now experience the next 2, 3 months because they will not get enough money and the tax administration will return income tax according to Croatian citizens' tax returns. And these are facts that you can't escape from. Therefore, it cannot tell anyone that Croatia is unfortunately not the country that has the biggest increase in public debt in GDP over the past 3 years. It's a fact and we can't get away from that fact. Like we can't even escape that the risk coefficient Croatia has the biggest after Greece. That's the facts. And now someone can say whatever they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114405	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114406	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you were saying that employee fees were realised as a rule below what was planned and that this would certainly result in some new applications of employees, court costs and far greater damages. I'd like to pay attention to what happens at the same time at the same time with expenses for people outside of work. As a rule, they are increasing to 115% more than planned, further 202% more than planned, 864% more than planned. Well, then we have expenses to people outside of work, for example. in the State Geodetic Administration, which is 30 times larger than it was planned with the budget to the Croatian Employment Service, which is the cost of the people outside the working relationship planned for 37,000 kuna and realised, you will not believe 2 million and 284 thousand kuna, 60 times more. I wonder when the budget rebalancing was adopted at the end of November 2014 and it was not planned or could be assumed that these jobs would need to be negotiated. With whom and how such contracts have been signed, agreed, paid and in this amount up to 31. 12. All that realized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114407	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114408	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Fellow Members of Juričev, so when the budget rebalance is at 12 months then it is usually a rebalancing to patch up certain holes or some excesses that must happen if the budget rebalancing does not occur. However, it is very interesting here that at some symptomatic cost these amounts are in spite of the rebalancing which was practically 20 days before the end of the financial year terribly higher than planned while at the same time being shown as a reduction of some expenditure on employees. However, when you look at the budget's reasoning a little bit, then you'll see why it happened. However, it is very interesting that the economic ministries have not used their resources. Because if the state budget planned the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Economy hundreds of millions to help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs then it's strange why it wasn't done by the end of the year, why certain incentives in the tourism activity were not paid first, waited all year and then eventually reduced a number of others.... Therefore, simply when you look at these things, you can't believe that someone didn't do something from the beginning because the unremarkable expenditures and intellectual services are growing 20 days before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114409	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114410	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, you have also made it very clear that it is 5.7% of GDP, not 4.1 as the Deputy Minister said, but 5.7 and the European Commission and the IMF, as well. And unfortunately, I must say that this new methodology is the calculation of the deficit that is the basis for the European Commission's fiscal supervision of all the members, and so is Croatia, all the members of the European Union. The second thing you're talking about is the issue of privatisation of Croatia's insurance. I think it is a very, very important problem and questions are raised whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the report auditably. The question arises whether it recognises the audit report because it is clearly stated in the audit report that it was not acted under a law that was not laid down outside the force, which concerns the Law on the Conversion of Capital of the Insurance and Reinsurance Society in the Republic of Croatia according to which the decision on privatisation is in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. It was also established in the audit report that the number of shares sold as well as share in the underlying capital had not been correctly offered. Also, since the number of shares... of capitalisation were not determined by potential investors they offered a different number of shares and a different amount of capitalisation. The question is who actually made the decision on the recapitalisation. And, of course, the question of all questions, why is the share of the underlying capital reduced or why the value of the property is reduced and how it is possible that the Government did not take into account that the opinion of the audit company was given with the reserve because this reduction was not made according to international standards. Does the government accept this report? Does this part of the report concerning Croatia's insurance accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114411	Time. Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114412	Thank you very much. My colleague Matušić, so as far as the deficit is concerned, we talked a lot about him, and he is who he is. Why? Because in 2016 we don't have these 2 billion and 900 anymore, and we don't have any substitute incomes to say so, and that deficit is definitely going to be a problem. And as for Croatia's insurance, so I wouldn't talk about this shopping process itself, but it's a very interesting tip, first 4 million plus VAT and then some additional to the price achieved is variable, percentage, while the question is why the stock didn't rise. And as for some observations from the auditors, it's very interesting that similar observations were made in 2002, actually in 2003 at the privatisation of INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114413	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114414	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you said in your debate that Croatia has the highest increase in public debt in the European Union. So this government is more than aware of the problems of high public debt because it is through huge interest, through the high interest generated by it burdens terribly simply our country. So it generates a high budget deficit, and that's why fiscal rules are not actually met, and that's why we're high and interest on loans. But while this government will make an effort to adopt and adopt a public debt management strategy as soon as possible, the government is seeking to reduce the main public debt directly. How does he do that? You remember that you wanted to go to the highway monetize, and unfortunately you had to give up because there were huge public pressures. Public debt was also due to the fact that it was going to sell Croatia's insurance. So when you don't have a rise in national income from economic growth, and the fact is that we haven't had it in a long, long time I'd say six years, you know that we've been in recession, then you don't really have much choice. So you, as a former finance minister, know very well. You must resort to the sale of assets but of course the one that is not of national strategic importance. So you know this perfectly well all together, but from the position of the opposition, I would say very irresponsiblely, you actually resent and reduce all of the efforts that this government is making and which unquestionably bring visible results.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114415	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114416	My colleague Jelash, I am most responsibly warning and not politicizing here ever. So when I talked about Croatia's insurance, I was talking about clean technology. The government's political decision is whether the deficit will finance the debt or finance it from certain sales. It's the government's political decision and I don't get involved in that part of the story. If this government has decided that, it's their business. However, I cannot accept that you raised your hand three years ago to take 40 limes from Croatian highways where practically some problem of solving Croatian highways was played on vervain. And when you take that 40 lipa somewhere around a billion kuna a year, you've taken HAC 3 billion kuna these three years. 3 billion kuna, given that there were no investments, they could reduce the amount of public debt. You gave them to the Croatian roads. Take a look at the financial plan of the Croatian Roads, how much it has fallen since the year you gave them 20 limes. So instead of increasing your investments to the Croatian roads, which is about 400 and some million more per year, you've been reducing them. So on the one hand... damaged, and on the other hand... Croatian Railways, unfortunately, is happening what is happening. No one's happy, I just hope they don't get a heads-up again. A stupid man can be happy with what's going on with the railroads. Who in their right mind can be happy with that? But unfortunately, they gave up money because nothing happened. Kamate colleagues Jelash have exactly how much interest was in the 2011 budget. All above that, and let's be happy, so this historic low interest time happened, so we're down the interest. All over the seven-and-a-half billion in 2011, the cost of interest is solely due to the government's borrowing. So in this story, everyone has a part of their sin, but let's not convince each other that this is the case today, and tomorrow it's different. I've never spoken like that, nor will I speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114417	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114418	Thank you very much. Comrade Shucker, there's a nice old saying that says, "As long as the truth is wearing shoes, a lie has already traveled the world." It is a fundamental feature of the conduct of the ruling coalition and their policies that they serve daily. That's what we're testifying to today. We simply don't have the courage to admit that it's something long, that it's a deficit and that it amounts to as much as 18 billion kuna. I'd understand if we couldn't align to 5, 50 or 100 million kuna or 500. Well, this is almost 7 billion kuna. So what are we doing that we're always wrong about methodologies? What are we doing? I asked Prime Minister Milanovic a question two months ago here in the current hour. I asked him what the public debt of the Republic of Croatia was. I then said that by the end of the year he would be close to 300 billion and that he would cross 90%. Here we read yesterday at the end of March 288 and a half billion almost 88% of GDP. Are we far from that? The credit rating I mentioned today. So we listen all the time to do reforms in this country and the government spends them every day. Well, those credit agencies on the outside just can't notice any of them. Well, they don't want us to raise any levels, so at least go back to where we were in 2011. How come we have to notice those reforms that aren't there, and those who know everything out there, who evaluate it, they just don't see one. Today, the minister spoke nicely, all positive. He forgot to say that we have 320 thousand blocked, that we have 50,000 that the Minister of Labour himself said were deleted formally from the Employment Service and that we have 100,000 people who have left, to cut our tax base, that we do not have people in Croatia, less and less. It's just the facts they bring up and I'm saying that the truths and the pulsism that we're going to welcome the election with, I guess, because every day it's all something nice. So we can't determine in the country how much we've withdrawn funds from EU funds, and one single account in the Treasury. One minister says one thing, the other says the other, and in the end it's always a minus.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114419	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114420	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Boric, I don't understand what we're getting with this so-called. By national methodology, when all those who follow us from the outside and who lend us money, who determine this risk, the creditors are looking at us with a deficit of 5.7%. Then I don't understand why we want to show ourselves something. And when I said that Croatia has the biggest credit risk after Greece, it best says that we are experienced by foreigners. Because you know what? At a time when you have money on the world market as much as you want, borrow money for Croatia, Croatia at this time, regardless of who talked is not such a risky country. You get an interest rate of 3.25, 3 and a half and you get a nice fee because Croatia will practically pay you a nice interest when you have no one to pay the money for 8 years. 'Cause let's tell the Germans to borrow money, you have to pay them. Slovenians borrow at 0.85, with one percent or 1.25, Czechs of 0.7%. But it's all based on this government budget deficit. So I don't see why we want to show it the same way as I don't see why it was so eager to show how much that deficit was in 2011. Why? So because those nine and a half billion guarantees that have been taken over for shipbuilding, we're going to pay for the next three, four, five, or six years regardless of who shows them like this or shows them like that. Maybe if we'd shown them the way they'd come to pay, we'd have been deficits smaller these years, and in 2011, there was so much, so if we had 19 billion, it's not that much. But when you count on it HZ it's quite a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114421	And Josip Krnić, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114422	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A esteemed colleague, Shuker, former finance minister, president of the Croatian Basketball Federation, would say my world in Slavonia and what a man has to do to make it work. It's a nice review of you. If only you had been able to behave rationally when you were in power, as you are now criticising, believe that the entire Croatian people know that it would be much easier in this country. I appreciate your expertise, and I don't think you talk nonsense sometimes. But I'm surprised when you know all this nicely studied documents from the ministry you need to know that many units of local management at sea and their tourist communities have more income than many municipalities in Slavonia, the original of our budgets. You could see on the Ministry's website a alignment with the Development Index. Unfortunately, you probably didn't read it. Antunovac municipality receives 5 million kunas of direct assistance from the Ministry of Finance. The Gundinci municipality didn't do that before. Slavonski Šhamac municipality, do you know where these municipalities are? Do you know where the Cerna municipality is, the Vervains, the Drenovs? You know? Do you know that many colleagues of Bosniaks, you know that many colleagues, colleagues of many Mr. Shucker are colleagues from your party where I personally heard them say that they are much easier to pay back than they were before. I absolutely don't find it a problem that the IRS is sending to a local unit when it has to return as we now have to return 220 thousand kuna. Every year, from the beginning of the year every month on all these local administration units, a certain percentage of the help is being given by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114423	Time, thank you. Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114424	A dear colleague of these basketball hands has come to do a lot of things. They should know that, from 2004 to 2012, income tax instead of units in the field of special state care came back from the state budget and was not a problem. So that's what we're talking about. And the second thing, dear fellow government budget deficit in 2008 was 0.7% of GDP. There has been an economic crisis, as there was no political will at the time, so it is gone and now certain reforms are being implemented. At that time, the Ministry of Finance, as well as counterpart Linic, is today a colleague of Lalovac's, are proposing some things but they will not be supported politically, and then the Ministry of Finance supported some things that politics did not want to support. And that's why we're where we are. Because if it were the Ministers of Finance, both before Skegra and the Church and me and Dalićka and Linic and Lalovac, the story would be completely different. We don't get very apart here. Why? Because we simply look at these state finances as well as the home budget. But unfortunately, politics is the one that orders. As it was Slavko, so today it was Boris, it was Martini, it was me. Because at the end of 2008, when I suggested that the 2008 budget be frozen for 2009 I had no public support from the great critics who talked like that after 6, 7 months and even from one Moses, the Messiah who was expected to go out for television and say so and so, I didn't have any support from him either. And unfortunately, it happened after what happened. And the biggest tragedy in Croatia is that today we are discussing the same problems that we detected in 2009 that exist. But there's a political will to do that. And believe me, that's why I mentioned all my colleagues before me, she's not lying in the Ministry of Finance, she's lying somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114425	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Left-wing fellow Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114426	Thank you, Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. By discussing the implementation of last year's budget, we will only ask two basic questions. First, did the government's economic policy in this document produce the results that the government imagined when it proposed the budget? Secondly, given the deficit problems, were the measures that the government itself imposed to reduce the deficit and halt public debt growth? So to answer these two fundamental questions because that's what we need to discuss, then let's first go to a brief analysis of macroeconomic movements. Negative economic growth trend of -0.4. The biggest reason for further decline in gross capital, further decline, as much as 4% compared to last year, means in 2013 when it was 1%, total deinvestment. The biggest guilt has no investment in state investments. And we can't agree whether it's private mobility or this when the state crisis needs to be triggered. She also had a chance. Two refineries in INA, but the INA problem had to be solved. In HEP one thermopower plant, one hydropower plant. Papers ready, everything was ready. And are we going to talk about the railroad? Two cancellations where we could start building significant railways from European Community funds. That's not gonna happen! You will allow it, the direct responsibility is for the government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministries. And that's why we have the biggest fall. And then we have the worst number we don't want to talk about. Average employee status in 2014 million and 342,000 149 employees. The lowest number of employees in Croatia since the figures are measured. Which means we're firing people, we're forcing them out of the process, and then let's not be surprised that we have 320 thousand or 330 thousand citizens who can't carry out their duties. And the biggest problem is the spending side problem and the control of expenditure and unimplemented reforms, but the biggest problem is investments that need to mean employment, higher incomes and tax based on contributions and the safety of citizens. And there's the biggest failure of the government's economic policy. And we're not discussing today where it's because there's no investment. Is it possible that after three years of current government and we have plotted these investments, two refineries, two power plants, a railroad. It was strategic investment. Shall we talk about the numbers? They're dizzy figures that were supposed to be invested. We won't talk about investing in oil, gas and everything else, we won't. So we didn't do it. And there's a reason we have to say we have problems. Of course, that's why we stayed at 5533 kuna net wages and frozen salaries, frozen spending, we did it all. We can still say let's have some real growth because we got into a deflation of 0.2% for 2014. And that's why we say failed economic policy. But we also have to say that there are other significant risks. Where are your risks? Unstructured Croatian highways, HAC ONCE as you wish to call it, unrestructured Croatian railway especially the part relating to Cargo or freight traffic. Costs which will significantly further burden the spending side, and unfortunately will not participate positively in the investment cycle that is so significantly needed. And of course that's why we have a deficit take 4.1 or 5.7 doesn't matter what methodology these are the deficits which are a huge burden and which then produce normal foreign debt growth, so at the end of last year we came somewhere to the 208 billion kuna of the total public debt or 64% of the gross domestic product with a tendency to grow rapidly. And, of course, it remains fundamental for us to reopen the risks of health dues that we bloody pay 6.5 billion and re-open the dubiouss in highways and railways because we cover their dubiouss with guarantees. All of these are hidden, I would say the next year's burdens that will seriously burden the government's economic policy for the next period. Therefore, if we say what is the greatest burden for 2014 there is no investment in capital, there is no state investment and we have the data that you see the highest wages in these state-owned enterprises, we have free capital, although you have in the light of the state budget itself to extract dividends because it does not invest in these companies. Therefore, the revenues that most have to bear and these are the proceeds of the assets because we are still a country with huge assets we do not put into office, we do not know how to manage it, and in fact it was all over the tax revenues. This is the answer to a failed economic policy to see if we have succeeded in implementing measures to combat the excessive deficit. Unfortunately, we need to determine that by doing the greatest work we have done in that section that we have spoken on the revenue side. Therefore, the change in VAT per I would say those among the products and among the services from 10 to 13, gambling, excise duties in the tobacco work, which refers to cars. These are all the measures that have been planned and brought in some revenue, but what we can conclude is that the tax revenues have remained at the level of 2013 and, in fact, instead of increasing revenues in that part, we only have the compensation of everything we lose due to the negative trend of the gross social product does not invest and, of course, I would say certain fears that we are going to continue to support the economy and that some way we are trying to facilitate the business of the economy by changing tax policy. So we can say that we accept that the measure on the income side has succeeded in me except that we have not gone on real estate tax and tried to move part of health care and health funding and health care problems to some other than the burden of workers who are underpaid and who are not able to be consumers. That's maybe what we're talking about when we talk about tax revenues. When we talk about contributions then we must say that the problem that we have increased the contribution to health and as we see that part has not significantly changed the amount of expenditure from the health budget, it is always moving the same but obviously not enough to finance such a reorganisation of health, is not enough. On the other hand, when we observe the pension system, it is always stable, it has its revenues of 19.5 billion, except last year we had an additional 3 billion based on a different pension system solution in the second pillar and the return of funds for part of the pensioners. And basically all income increases and on the basis of contributions, means increased health rates and withdrawals of funds from pension funds, given the change in the law. But still, is your income enough? In healthcare, not least 1 billion in addition to these significant investments in health care are missing, and what is a chronic problem that we very little talk about in the pension system if we take regular revenues of 19.5 and expenditures of 36 billion 17 billion is a permanent deficit year after year in the pension system, year after year. The deficit most burdened and the least we're talking about, the truth is we know that the basic problem of a low pension is a large number of pensioners. We can't correct each other and we can't correct it because we're a social state, but it's obvious that we have to deal with a larger number of employees. Let's keep that much revenue. Let's talk about expenses, have those measures been implemented? And she's the answer no. This shows the expenditures independently as we say that expenditures are higher by 1 billion and 700 increased commitments towards the European community, regardless of what we say is a 600 million higher amount for interest, and that the recovery of flooded areas is about 400 million, it is evident that there was no significant reduction. There were no salaries, no health care, no education, and all of this is foreseen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme. Far greater savings should have been on the spending side to show in some way that we are actually able to implement certain reforms. We must say that these reforms are elaborated to detail with financial effects, timetables and what needs to be done. The government didn't do it. And that is, of course, one of the reasons why our deficits are so high and why our debt is growing this way and our public debt. It is, therefore, not the government that implemented its draft reforms. And as much as we have the mild interpretation of the Fiscal Committee, which is said to be implemented, the question remains whether we have the right to take slow steps, whether we have the right to approach all these problems lightly. And of course, when you take away from one side the lack of activity in the investment field, and on the other hand the slow movement of the reorganisation, on reforms, then you get these results that are ahead of us and which mean certain destabilisation and state finances, but therefore a negative message towards the private investment sector that will be very afraid to enter the Republic of Croatia with such simple problem public finances. Therefore, all praises for the realisation and implementation of fiscal measures, which is not easy because it is not easy to increase the cost of those who go into the purchase of cars or smokers, or those who like to gamble, are all the same efforts of the government, but as much as we were there to resolve, I think we should have been in reform because there is evidence, and in particular in the third year it is still far from the election and I would say to collect the effects of these reforms that we have spent in 2014 now in the election year would have been worth it. This is how all these problems meet us. However, the money for highways is missing for one reason only, which the minister responsible for this did not implement the monetization in 2013, his deadline was the end of 2013. The whole problems with public dissatisfaction, with the request for a referendum were in 2014, so he was late, the government was late it was not done it should have been done. We're now going to have an increase in road deficits because we've moved 40 limes into some other givings and we can't get them back. These are deficits, and we could have had a reduction of three billion public debt, three billion euros. And we're talking about interest? Well, that'll be at least one more time in 15 years as long as it takes to get all those loans back. And I'm not going to talk about HZ Cargo, not earning even their salaries, not a restructured company with huge problems. I can accept guarantees for HZ Travellers, there at least we're building new trains, we've hired the domestic industry we'll have some kind of own product, so the development is invested so the state gives guarantees. But what's being invested in Cargo? Not only does the state, the HHI Infrastructure finance them, but HHI Infrastructure does not charge its claims, so it ran out of money to invest. What are we going to build the railroads with? Yes, these are responsibilities for not implementing reforms and I would say irresponsible asset management is the commercial companies' assets. Therefore, I would also give a negative assessment in that part of the implementation of the measures. Very short on the revision. If I run out of time, I'll only stay on Croatian security. You know, when we look at the finding that we didn't follow the laws, and then my humble law because I've been in public businesses for 25 years, especially with regard to legislation, then Article 1 makes it very clear that the law regulates the conversion of unnamed capital into insurance and reinsurance companies. Article 1 and Article 1 always states what the law applies. Therefore, the law does not talk about privatisation but about conversion and the law does not talk about Croatia's insurance, it does not speak. Therefore, when we talk about this law, it is not a lex specialis for Croatia insurance. The truth in Article 9 states that the State's capital acquired should be privatised on the basis of the Parliament's decision to say so in Article 9. And Article 9 is consummated by specific privatisation laws, and then by the special Law on the privatisation of state property. So who passed the laws? The Croatian Parliament. But this is the day when the opinion of the state auditor who gives himself the right to interpret Croatian laws is the reason why we are again dealing with fundamental problems in Croatia, but we are dealing with outwitting and political planting. That's why my proposal is to urgently request the Parliament's opinion on the law. So then neither the government that challenges the opinion of the auditors nor the auditor, nor we politically create a circus in public to interpret the law is the only competent parliament. So let us refer to the procedure and stop these stories because we do not need circuses in the Croatian public because some auditor has allowed himself to interpret the Converting Act as a lex specialis for Croatian insurance. Therefore, if necessary, I will also send it in writing because I do not think we need such circuses, especially if we want Croatia to be a company that will try to expand beyond Croatia and all with the aim of strengthening the Croatian capital and strengthening the income side and the social gross product of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114427	Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114428	I've been listening to everything you've been saying, some things I just have to react to. If there's anything to be consistent with myself, if I object and I think with the right HDZ what they say about certain things, and they've been cooking it themselves because they've been in power for a long time, I can't even mention to you that until yesterday, until a month ago, you've been in government, so neither have you if anything's wrong or what you're saying is wrong. I just want to be consistent with myself, and I have to say. Because we're discussing today the budget that you've been doing as a minister, and we've adopted it on your proposal. You say there is no, there are no reduced expenditures, so just last year, compared to the planned proposal, so on the draft budget adopted, the reduced expenditures are 2.5 billion. That's simply not true. So what was proposed at the beginning of the end here we see in the realization that expenditures are reduced by 2.5 billion. It's not much, but it's not much. You said there was no investment, I agree that investment is never enough, though, if we had about a hundred billion, then we would be happy and happy. Well, it's not the devil that investments were put in the moment you left the government and by then there were hundreds and billions. And it's not really. According to the darkness, I now, don't have all the statistical indicators here now, I would dare say that after that, there were more investments than before. But it's also easy to check. So, you're talking about health problems, so you know but we've been reducing the health contribution on your proposal, so we've increased it again on your proposal. No matter what any of us thought, etc., but you suggested it and we did it. And now you're warning about these problems. So, be it, I have to be consistent if I've given HDZ criticism of how we behave, now I'm talking to you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114429	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114430	Thank you, Vice President. So when I'm personally called, let's say, remember what rate of economic growth was planned, high. For the conditions of the Republic of Croatia high. It was based on plans for investments made by individual ministers and co-ordinated by Greek Vice President. Nothing has been achieved, read, you have a 4% drop in investments when it comes to economic growth. Therefore, it was planned that the exact amount of investment was not achieved. Yes, we've worked very hard in the ministry. For what? On the reform program and the convergence plan. Up to details term, value and by activity marked. Both at the Ministry of Health and at the Ministry of Education, Social Policy, Administration Reform. And I guess I can evaluate those documents that I still kept as a memory, on which I worked and said no drawn documents were reached. No, they're not. And what you don't want to accept because you need to know about these documents, all of them you have, are available to all of you on the government's pages, government adopted them at their regular meetings at 12 months 2013. ... Yeah, that's what we've been doing, and that's why I can say quite objectively that it's not done. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it was working a little differently. And who's to blame for that, you ask yourself a question. Since we were responsible and spent what we wrote to ourselves, what we sent to the European Commission to realize today would still be lower results but at least we would have the satisfaction to say that we have complied with a very modest fiscal rule. Unfortunately, that wasn't our goal either.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114431	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114432	Thank you very much. My colleague Linic, and most of the debate in principle, we can agree because at the end of the day we both talked in a very similar way about the same problems, but I would like to share with you another opinion on one thing. But first, it should be emphasized here that the main lever for economic policy management is the budget and who is not aware of this unfortunately does not see beyond his nose. As well as looking at the expenditure side of the budget, not only for the last 3 years but before that, it will probably become clear to him that without structural reforms, the problem of the expenditure side of the budget cannot be solved. However, what I would like to comment on with you is an increase in the expenditure side of the 2.5 billion budget and this shows the cost of the European Community of a billion and 780 million. However, the original budget planned to withdraw 4 billion and 400 from the European funds. We only pulled 2100, so 2 billion and 300 less. If we had pulled that balance with the European Union, it would have been +600 million and it wouldn't have been talked about a billion and 700 minuses. And that may be the biggest problem of this government, and the great delusions that projects and programmes agreed 3 and 4 years ago from pre-accession funds are accounted for in the withdrawn funds from the European Union. Unfortunately, what we have as a member of the European Union is the right to push through various funds. We did not thus reduce the expenditure side of the state budget, we did not reduce the expenditure side of the units of local self-government, we also did not start funding from European money key infrastructure projects in Croatia because the railway is one of Croatia's key infrastructure projects. The port of the river will never be at the level if we don't make the river-Zagreb-Botovo railroad so let everyone think in this country whatever they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114433	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114434	As I prefer energy, I've given an emphasis precisely on energy and the possibility where we could have economic growth because we really have an INA as an oil company, not a retail company for the sale of MOL derivatives, and we also have energy electrically where HEP is one of the most powerful companies that could invest. And I totally agree, I left out to suggest that we didn't withdraw enough funds that could have been the result of economic growth, a small number of unemployed and a large number of employees. It is because these are small projects that could have been implemented across all ministries, in all cities and municipalities and only had to be followed in quality. But that's why we have a ministry that spreads optimism, but it doesn't expand the realization of the project. Yes, that is unfortunately a very big problem for Croatia because we are late. Those 2 billion that we could spend more will always be missed on accounts because we will have bigger deficits, we have a bigger crisis with citizens who are simply jobless, who cannot pay their own obligations. I just remember one thing, today is 2.7, are we aware that we were supposed to enter the Schengen corridors yesterday? And you know why we're not going in? Well, because we haven't made any border crossings. And why didn't we do it? We've got money, we've funded everything, we haven't done it. Do you know what was the biggest problem of entering the European Community? Customs corridors. We made them in time. And why we're not ordinary border crossings should be asked by the minister. It's a sign of the government's ability and responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114435	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114436	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you also touched the guarantees issued to Croatian railways, namely HZ-Infrastructure, HZ-Carg and others, HZ-Putnik transport. But I must say that I am personally and indignant and working while you were minister, and of course, above all, to the Minister of Transport who, in his term, was prevented by lack of money or guarantees or whatever, and they are a huge, modernization of the Okucani-Vinkovci railway. So the modernization of the tracks The Kuci-Vinkovci is written off, it does not come now into consideration right now. Furthermore, you yourself know that whatever the larger guarantees are more railways in the Republic of Croatia are abolished, so the Kumrovec-Zagreb railway which was driven by the former president and SDP model from its hometown to Zagreb, therefore it does not work because of a 500m rail that allegedly collids with the Slovenian border. 500 meters. The Kolodvor in Kumrovec has grown into ambrosia which is capital ambrosia. Furthermore, the railroad that your government has allowed me not to say in a concession or for sale, so the material from Sisak-Petrinja-Glina-Topusko-Karlovac railway line in the length of 92 km is completely unmounted, and you know why, so that whoever did the decommissioning of that secondary raw material line would have built a parking lot on Caprag in Sisak, and that company is very close to SDP, or association, let's not even a company but an association. Furthermore, as much as your government in which you were the minister insisted on selling HZ-Carg to that criminal Gruji in Romania, let me know. And you were the finance minister at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114437	Thank you very much. Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114438	We'll never get along. Yes, HZ-Cargo should be privatised, it is not a company that should own the Croatian state, it should be privatised. He must be competitive with Austrian railways, German railways, privates running around Europe. And you know, it's the government's responsibility why we couldn't privatize, because in the HZ-Cargo competition other than that Romania, there were Austrian railways, Slovak entrepreneurs and they were German. No, ask the minister why he chose this. I will always be responsible for Croatia, but Croatia has been implemented. At the same time we left, she was spent. HH-Cargo didn't. In 2014 it was immediately insisted or bankruptcy of the company and you re-organised the company with the full support of the union. Today we are 2015, what I can say and not pay, we do not earn from income, there are enormous expenditures, they finance the HZ-Cargo state budget, and tomorrow it will be your new deficits, new debts and financing HZ-Infrastructure. Well, nothing from HZ-Infrastructure will get into these traffic routes. The total error of the minister who neither privatised nor succeeded in privatisation, and he had good offers, nor managed to reorganise the company. Yeah, it's problems, it's personal problems, you know the name and last name, and I'm not gonna talk about my conflicts with all of them because as a minister, I've been actively working on it. But listen, someone doesn't have the courage to make a decision on privatisation. There isn't. So what do we got? A company with a huge number of over 900 extra employees we've been funding for two years and that's why they're a deficit. And there will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114439	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114440	Thank you. Dear counterpart Linic, you spoke of privatising Croatia's insurance and called for the Law on the Conversion of Social Insurance Capital and Reinsurance to which the State Audit also called when it found that the privatisation was not fully implemented in accordance with that law. You tried to explain why both this law and privatisation don't go together, but I'd supplement you. I think that's where the State Audit made a serious mistake, because this is not about the conversion of Croatia's insurance, but about the privatisation of Croatia's insurance, which is the two diametrically opposite concept. The transformation of a single society is a change in the legal status of society, companies in a company, and privatisation is a process of transforming the state into private. This is about transforming the state into private and therefore this Capital Conversion Act cannot be applied at all to the privatisation of Croatia's insurance. And that's where the confusion came from. I don't go into these other reasons that the State Review stated, but this absolutely doesn't stand. And I don't think you went all the way to clarify it this way either, but the difference between conversion and privatisation is very large. And this particular Article 9 to which the State Audit was called when it spoke about the Capital Conversion Act is referred, says Article 9. The decision on how to privatise the capital of the Republic of Croatia to society shall be taken by the Parliament on a proposal from the Government. It's the law. So the Privatisation Act must be passed. The conversion was completed in '92. for years, at least, as far as I know, Croatian security. But the privatisation was only 2013. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114441	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114442	I couldn't agree more with you, my colleague. Article 1 clearly states that the law regulates the conversion of unnamed capital, not Croatia's insurance and reinsurance insurance company. So, general law for all insurance and reinsurance companies. And it's a conversion. And that conversion was made under that law. Article 9 provides that when the Government sells and privatises it must have law. That doesn't talk about Croatia's insurance. And has the Privatisation Act been passed? A few, a few. So imagine you a state auditor who won't understand that when it comes to the intention of the law, it's always about the first article and he's only talking about converting unnamed capital, not privatisation. Special laws have been passed. The basis of the special legislation was adopted where Croatia is mentioned and how it will be privatised. So it's fully fulfilled this law, but one auditor allows himself the freedom of artistic expression and then we now have the controversy about it. But that's why I suggest we don't waste any time. We have the opportunity to give as a Parliament an interpretation of this same law, not to have the will of individuals who will then interpret the law however they please. So, I don't think it's a problem for us to end the story through interpretation whether it's legal or not, and whether it's a law on the conversion of capital that's inevitable in lex specialis insurance for Croatia. Come on, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114443	Franjo Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114444	Thank you. Well, I have the opposite opinion of my colleague, Scare-Ozbolt and Mr. Linic. My colleague Linic, I would first say that I am convinced and sure that the revision has done its job very thoroughly based on the law and on all international standards. When I talk about Croatia's insurance, here's a colleague of Skara-Ozbolt just quoted Article 9. It is not said that the Croatian Parliament will pass the law, but that it will make a decision on how to privatise and privatise, a decision. So the decision is something quite different from the law. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament was to make a decision on privatisation. Wasn't it suspicious for you at the time when the 2013 Audit Society found that the reduction in the value of Croatian real estate insurance was not made according to international standards. And then it was the audit company that hired Croatia to provide an opinion with the reserve precisely because it did not respect international standards in reducing the price of real estate. Wasn't that suspicious of you? I'm not going to talk about the fact that the State Audit found that no number of shares were found to be sold, how many states would leave at a base capital between 25% plus one share and 30% of shares. What kind of sales is that? Can you sell the house that you'll sell between 35 and 40% of the house that you'll sell. Between 35 and 40%, so who gives more... I'm not talking about it, the ones who bought it, they bought it in the best sense that everything was clear and clear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can agree with you that you should request the Parliament's opinion in the interpretation, but can you agree with me that a complete review of Croatia's privatisation should be carried out, a complete review of privatisation. If all is clear, there is no reason for the State Audit Office not to revise the privatisation of Croatia's insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114445	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114446	There's no point in having a controversy about what's in the law or not. Let's leave it to those who are in charge, and let's break this controversy, because there's really no point. But when we talk about the audit finding, if the auditor had been a little more careful then he would have written to the end, if the auditors of Croatia had not accepted the assessments because they were not made by international standards. And you know why? And that's what it says in those findings, because they needed an even bigger reduction. That's what it says in those findings. I guess I know what it said in there. And all you know is that it says they're not international, but you think they're not because they should be more, no, they should've been cut even more. Yes, unfortunately. ... And I'm sorry, it's not that it's free. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're talking about not talking about how long it's been. And the fact that the property is not worth it because worthless property was being bought, because since 2009 the property has been falling rapidly, and according to laws and international standards, Croatia was to be harmonised and not harmonised. Come on, please! Therefore, all it has to do is read to the end, not create doubts. Yeah, the property was supposed to be further reduced. That's kind of why the buyer thinks it's damaged, and it's not, because the auditor showed him that they were even less valuable and he had all the data. Yes, gentlemen, we're just trying to speak on such incorrect facts and allegations as are mentioned, and we don't want to accept the actual fact. That's the problem with all of you. You know, I finish the jobs I do. And that's the difference between me and Heidash and me and the vice president of the Greek government. Because if they were doing business and they didn't have this much dubiosis, they'd have a lot more investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114447	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114448	Dear fellow Linic, you said we needed investment, that investment is too small. That's where I agree with you. So absolutely investment is needed, they are a prerequisite for economic growth and economic growth is the only one that ensures progress. You also said that there was a need to do a monetization, so that Heidash didn't insist on monetizing the highways. It was supposed to be monetized, and it was supposed to be implemented, with more and more highways due to their increasing incomes because we reduced their incomes to a growing Croatian problem. The government is aware of the huge public debt and in this sense wanted to make a monetization. I'd say right now that high public debt is actually Damocle's sword over Croatia. With this moment we're in charge of how we like to say historically the lowest interest rates because at this point capital is available and cheap. What, though, about the growth of the capital jag and the growth of its prices as a result of the Law on supply and demand? It will be a huge problem for Croatia. The government is aware of this huge problem, and so I confirm it wanted to go into monetization, but you've all seen how much resistance the public has been to monetization. So what I want to say with this story, and citizens must be aware of their responsibilities, as well as those who convinced them that monetisation would be harmful and dangerous for Croatia. So citizens must trust the government and must support me to say so to the government's economic policy that they finally voted for.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114449	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114450	Running a state in crisis is not easy because it's a good part and a series of unpopular moves. Plus we have some difficult history of failed conversion, poor privatisation, I would say even INA one example of finding a strategic partner and eventually destroying the company. These are all bad examples. But when you're a country that doesn't cover your expenses, when you lose 17 billion dollars a year on a pension fund alone, when taxes aren't your only solution then you have to use your own property. And that's why any responsibility for managing companies that have to invest is huge because it's a failure. But also where we have big debts on completed investments if we can transfer them to someone else to create room for new investments, new investments because these 40 lipes we needed for both railways and roads because we're in a bad state of road maintenance. There's no compromise, especially if the government put it into its own program. And that's why the basics don't give up. It may be public, but we know the public won't agree with it, especially when we're still this politically divided, we're politically bickering, we're always someone and... on the side and then it's not easy. So you understand no government, especially one that runs a country with a crisis this severe, 6-year-old downturn in economic activity, so listen up for a million and 340 thousand employees, so it's a tragedy. And that's the answer we have to invest, we have to make tough decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114451	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114452	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, Head of State Director, Auditor pardon, gentlemen of the MPs. I want to ask first of all, is it true what happened today in some media that some banker threatened Minister Lalovec? Apparently, Mr. Bozo Prka, former finance minister, threatened Minister Lalovec. How serious a threat it was that Mr. Lalovac then reported it to Uskoc. Is it true that a Croatian banker deposited in Italian banks a 100m-euro circus, that you are conducting "determined reconnaissances" within the Ministry of Finance. I can't believe these fabulous sums, but nothing in Croatia should be surprised. I'm not going to get into it or I'm not going to get into it with how much money the Croatian banks are, some speak from 12 to 80 and some billion kuna, but we know that they're sold to mothers today, banks, foreigners for 5.4 billion kuna. That's for a while, let's say, a two-year profit. Will someone within the Ministry of Finance react, for example, in the case of Hypo Bank and what they did in these premises to Streedinger, Kulterer, Berlin, etc. Or are we just gonna keep it quiet? Will the Ministry of Finance react in the case of, say, Raiffeisen Cooperatives or as we in Istria call them, in the way that police authorities in Austria do, where among other things they state that more than 75% of our citizens can't serve. Well, that's nowhere to be found. The Swiss are a sweet mother to what they did to those vacuum cleaners or that Raiffeisen cooperative. Apparently, these are the same data leaked from the Ministry of Finance to hold around 1 billion and 700 million kuna in the European accounts of 20 Croatian citizens. By the time I mentioned the Bank of Commerce, we all know that it is 89, 99, capitalized for some 600 million euros, and was then sold to imagine 640 million euros. However, to return to that replica of the Deputy Minister of Finance, I said this way that the Ministry of Economy, here I have the execution of the meaning of the 2014 budget, has generated a revenue of 1 billion 454 million kuna. Or say the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts 476 million kuna. Or say the tourism ministry 220 million kuna. I have quoted it before, so I will do it again, on page 59.da, on the basis of the data collected, it was found that from public sources at national level in 2013 programmes and projects in civil society organisations, 560 million kuna plus from the budget of units of local and regional self-government was allocated another 1 billion kuna or total in 2013 from public sources in the Republic of Croatia projects, programmes organised by civil society totalling 1 billion 604 million kuna. And he's right, Mr. Grubisic. Say hello to your brother. I didn't know what was going on down there. I didn't know what was going on in the early '80s with you or your family. You've also mentioned to me before that there are considerable resources but I don't know how many associations have been allocated from EU funds. It turns out that more funds are being received by associations than the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of the Small Turn. That's almost amazing. And I'd keep my mouth shut if in some areas at the head of those associations there weren't party-declared individuals or individuals standing. When we talk about this execution, we must also say what preceded this execution, more precisely what an economic picture Mr Linic was talking about. But let's take the turn. The operating incomes were 114 billion kuna, expenditures 127 billion kuna, surplus, pardoning the deficit of $12.8 billion, incomes from financial assets, borrowing means 35 billion kuna, payment of loans to €27 billion. And then what do you apostrophe from this report? Tax on profit -700 million kuna, it says how much harder it is, be careful today or yesterday than the day before yesterday. The property tax is also significantly lower, the VAT is higher by 700 million kuna, why? Because the zero rate has been abolished, i.e. the revenue on certain activities in tourism, customs is clearly less drastically because we have entered the EU, the contributions of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute are logically higher because we have increased them, the contributions of MIORH or the Peace Fund 3 billion kuna. We got 1.1 billion kuna from the World Bank. But the point of the budget is to pay off the principal of the loans and loans received. In 2013, we returned 8.1 billion kuna in 2014 even 15.2 billion kuna. That's the 189% index. In 2014, all ministries had less money than the Ministry of Construction +24 million kuna and the Ministry of Economy +120 million kuna. All the rest of the departments are making fewer incomes. Most of all, the biggest shortfall had the Ministry of crafts. When we talked about this public debt, it would be good to mention, among other things, that in the first quarter of the public debt this year increased by 8.9 billion kuna and at the end of March reached 288.5 billion kuna, which increased its share in GDP to 87.7%. When, on the other hand, by the end of the year, it'll be about 93.94%. On the other hand, when we look at gross foreign debt at the end of the third month, it was 49.3 billion euros, which is over 108% of GDP. And what everyone knows for sure, especially our creditors, Croatia is a highly in charge of the country but there is still no problem with financing its international or domestic obligations, but at such a high level of debt and low growth we are quite exposed to risks. During the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014, 17 state guarantees were issued in total amounting to €12.6 billion of which are 13 financial guarantees and 4 censures. I think that during that period, also Pulmonary Oil was given two guarantees of over or cca billion and 500 million kuna, one of which was 153 million euros, and the other was something lower but now it's less important. On page 465 the macroeconomic data for 2014, at the time they were mostly negative, but 2015 the crisis began to subside and staticly regardless of what nobody would say today better than we did yesterday or yesterday we certainly didn't live better than the day before yesterday, but still statistics change. On the other hand, the situation is painful, ungrateful confirms the number of tasks, blocked accounts, harder to collect loans from credit institutions, etc., and the small economy is not to be talked about at all, I say that 90% of the people who run it are in a more difficult position than the workers who work with them. And that's why I also withdrew on purpose I pulled the parallel between the Ministry of Economy, the small economy and let's say the associations because I don't think this situation is normal, it's not natural. When we talk about the macroeconomic environment in 2014 I think it's just about that employee relationship, which Slavko Linic was talking about earlier. Look, in 2012, we had a million 395 thousand 111 employees in Croatia. 2013 million 354 thousand 298, late 2014, million 342 thousand and somewhere at the end of the 4th month on the day 30.4.2015.Million 316 thousand 826 employees. So in 3.5 years, Croatia has lost 78 thousand 285 jobs and it is a disaster. Where did we lose our jobs? We've lost our jobs in the real sector. In the public sector, the number of jobs, when we add utility companies, has increased by about 10,000. So in the real sector, it's free to say that we've lost 90,000 jobs. If one job costs 20,000 euros, we feel like we've lost 2 billion euros or we're going to need at least 2 billion euros, and before we do, to get it back. It is equivalent to 50 hotels with around 150 keys, 400 beds as average new hotels are built in Croatia. What's the problem? The world economy, it started to run somewhere in 2012.Ours began to thank God 2015. What's saving us? It saves us from joining the EU. On the other hand, the fact that we Europe today are paying more cash, money than we are pulling out of Europe. So from 1.7.2013 to 1.1.2015, we paid if we had that bank in mind, or that steel fund, and as it's already called, 450 million euros, we pulled around 430 million euros. An even bigger problem is that Europe sets priorities for us and instead of money going to the economy to encourage small, big doesn't matter, tourism and the like, but good and then only the directors of tourist communities in some counties are giving us de facto determining what and how to build. So entering the EU, Europe's repairs directly meant more exports to the Republic of Croatia, whether it was shipbuilding or not, so bigger orders followed. But also let's not just fool ourselves with unemployment right, statisticalally dropping, but where do these people end up? Often, unfortunately, they go away not to say they run from Croatia. It will certainly take Croatia at least 10 years to return and 15 years ago to return to the pre-crisis GDP. It simply made us a crisis or inadequate at the right time of the untimely decision. Let's look at the ordinary people, we deal with the Swiss and the state that the Ministry of Finance does a lot of work and sincerely wants to help people. But I will once again here in front of the Deputy Minister of Finance say, gentlemen, let's try to do something about these Raiffeisen cooperatives. I just said 75% of people can't serve their obligations. It's not natural, it's not even in the case of Swiss, or any other credit except for those green interest rates where you have to charge 5% each month for that principal. Since VAT, we have achieved, what, 40.9 billion kuna, I advocate that VAT tourism in those services, etc., is back to 10%. Unfortunately, during this period of office where two ministers changed, in Croatia I don't know, two new hotels may have been built. I know there's no new building in Istria. But that's why, with the resources of the Istrian company, they took over some tourism companies in the Kvarner area, in particular Krka, Dalmatia, etc., but the ransom all went there unfortunately nothing to do. However, this may also be a topic for the main state auditor for that slogan "Croatia full of life", "Croatia full of life", imagine, we threw 2.8 million kunas. Why do I say we throw? Because they now say they need another million and 200 thousand kuna to invest for a new visual identity and that the slogan will not be used until the 1.9th year. Until then, the slogan "Meditated as it used to be" is in effect. It's a beautiful slogan unlike this one that has no head or tail, but let's let it go now. But that's why it costs a lot. And it might be good if someone entered the tourist community of the Republic of Croatia to see how much, not a million, tens of them, but hundreds of millions of kunas invest in intellectual services, various studies and so on. I am also interested in this problem of Croatian Roads. I see there's been some terrible centralization going on here. Before, how many, two years ago, we see exactly in the materials, it returned to ZUCs 24 million kunas, 2014. 120, this 2015, the 16th won't come back, means no more on that basis. I'm saying that among other things, and because of the need to finally make that date happen from, say, Porozin on the island of Cres to Cres. Driving down that road is really cool. Scary movies and horrors at night, especially if it's fog we could shoot there. The incomes of Croatian roads amount to a billion and 790 million kuna, expenditures a billion and 430 and they pay for the promotion of millions and 500 thousand kuna. The payment borrows 366 thousand kuna. Ipsilon, I will repeat what I have already said here for the pay phone must enter the public debt, investment should be made, ipislon plus the Učka railway or the train tunnel, pardon Učka should be treated just as it is treated in the Republic of Croatia Pelješki bridge. Maybe at this point the Peles Bridge is priority no. 1. but then certainly the train tunnel Učka and the ipsion team are more because the funds are secured and all other property legal issues, building permits number 2. Not to mention other compounds that depend primarily on Slovenia whether it is a connection of Rupa - Kozina, Rupa Postojna, Buje - Plovdiv or Buzet – Koper when it comes to Učka tunnel. Clearly, to launch foreign investment needs to be done, crime should be freed. Many mentioned Croatia's insurance. Croatia's insurance needs to be fair, income fell drastically. If they kept doing business like they did, they'd just collapse. The fact that everything was done for a known buyer is probably, it's not controversial, it's certainly not damaged as we've heard here. If for nothing else because of their monopolity in the Republic of Croatia, for 25 years. But no matter what I'm against every monopoly I'm not against the one from my own... And in the end, I'm going to trust considerable money from the sale... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] their facilities in Kanfanar end up in or in the takeover of Sava and Triglav, so Croatia's insurance will again be what it used to be in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But clearly, it was long ago to change the policy of conversion or privatisation, to revise what could have been but unfortunately we left it behind and the return is no more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114453	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114454	My colleague Caine, I had to replicate because I think you may have been confused when you said that 20 people have a billion and 700 million kuna savings because it kind of sounds impossible to me. Because when we see that Croatia is exhausted and that individuals are so loaded, it really sounds fantastic to me. But I want to tell you that I received a reply from the Ministry of Finance on 7 April 2015 because I have asked for how many people have been caught in Croatia so far who have a disproportionate relationship between their income and the value of their assets. Article 63 is replaced by the following: Income tax law. In that memo, I received information that it was 473 people. If they had been caught and they had been charged taxes on illegally acquired property, which is certainly so, they wouldn't have had a deficit in the Treasury for the past year. Therefore, Mr Caine or you are confused and perhaps not or the Ministry of Finance in the past years since the creation of the Republic of Croatia has not done its job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114455	Damir Kai's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114456	If it wasn't for doing its job, we'd all be familiar with it. However, it is no science fiction that 20 people abroad have a billion and only 20 people. These are the biggest savings under quotes, in fact probably robbers of the citizens of these areas, have a billion and 700 million kunas. Why the Ministry of Finance, why the DORH don't do anything about it I don't know. You should just see now this report by the Austrian authorities around Hypo Bank, they all have written, you know exactly who's what you've been getting, well we don't exactly have all these reports, so let's go that way and it'll start with at least a hundredths, and maybe more millions to start with.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114457	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114458	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, when you mentioned me personally, and even my family for another thing known to the public. I have to say, I'm not going to look back at it, it was a long time ago, but I have to say that there are traces of money in Liechtenstein, too, in connection with Hypo Group and Hypo Bank, and then there are traces of money for these capitalists, 20 of them worth 1.7 billion of some kind of foreign currency savings. This is about Hypo Bank worth about a billion euros, so if I were to just say tax it then we would certainly have a deficit of the state budget much less than it is now. Unfortunately, nobody seems to care too much about it, or those people are so strong and so important that there's really no interest in doing it, so we're not all equal in law. That's not what we're talking about, because for some 20,000 tax debts you've won on the tax administration's pillar of shame, and there's no consequences here for billions of kuna. But what I wanted to say and especially highlight your debate about the amounts that stand out for so - called so - called. Civil society. These civil associations, with what you said it was in 2013, and you see here there, maybe you skipped that debate, for 2014. The annual report of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development in which not only revenues in kuna amounts were achieved by the state and local self-government but also in euro, and through programmes that they ran for the European Union. Therefore, the amount received by civil associations from local self-government, the state and the European Union is around 2 billion kuna and more than the total amount available to the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Culture together. So is that normal in the state?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114459	Thank you. Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114460	Dear Mr. Grubisic, I remember that Sunday somewhere in the morning, 7:30, I'm going to the kiosk, I'm buying a newspaper, I read it about 8:00, I wanted to call you, but in the meantime you changed your phone number to give me your brother's number. I could not believe that some under quotes respected university professors were willing to work for survival under the quotes of the system in the '80s to Croatian citizens, to your brother or to someone else. Threatening death by throwing out a window, torture, rigging... is something to talk about today. I won't say that these people shouldn't work today because it's been 20-30 years in some new institutions, and that you should know who they are, even though it would be normal for them to work at the university and at least in those secret departments of our courts. We have to talk about this so that simply out of the memory of Croatian citizens would not abate suffering, suffering, tears and everything that individuals have suffered.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114461	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114462	Thank you. Comrade Cain, you did not say exactly when you said that Croatia's insurance business was losing. Prior to the start of privatisation, the privatisation process was a profit business, and according to the annual financial reports, the retained profit and profit of the current year in late 2012 amounted to a total of 382 million kuna, out of which 118 million kuna is in 2012 for the profit of the current year. So before the privatisation begins. However, the problem arises with the arrival of Krešimir Starcevic, a well-known Deputy Privatisation Fund that was in an affair with Hypo Bank by selling the hotel.... The same Krešimir Starcevic, after the Privatisation Fund, is being hired as a miracle in Hypo Bank and is returning again to privatise Croatia's security. And he did not say exactly when he said that the auditor who was doing the review of Croatia's financial report insurance and who disagreed with the reduction in real estate prices by 500m kuna and some million kuna, he said that the reduction should have been higher because it should have been taken into account from 2009 to 2013. The first question is when was the last time the price of real estate was harmonised, whether it was harmonised in 2009 or when it was last harmonised. The question is what price of real estate at which point was harmonised, which we had at the beginning of 2013. And the other thing, what he didn't exactly say here clearly stands the audit report. Therefore, the audit company which had been the rule of reviewing the financial operations of Croatia said that it did not comply with international standards because the reduction in value does not reflect developments in the real estate market in 2013. So it's drastically reduced compared to moving, in the real estate market, that's what it's all about. And the question when was the last time that it was aligned with the market, that's the bottom line of the question. And when you add up the profits and you get over 900 million kuna, so 900 million kuna has been taken away from Croatia before privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114463	Thank you very much, but it's a replica of my colleague Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114464	No, no, my colleague was talking about reduction and loss.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114465	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114466	That the gentleman you mention in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, don't interfere with the mind, comes from the TDR and then is employed in Hypo Bank, and then nice again in, that first in the fund, in Hypo bank and also performs a deep analysis by working in Croatia insurance. It should also be kept in mind what happened to the severances of some other directors who preceded Mr. Starčević, who received severances in that state-owned company of 7 or 5 million kuna, which is for me... And based on the court's verdict? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It's a great honor for the Croatian judiciary if that's based on a court ruling. Some of their investments are being monitored in Istria. Yes, I was wrong in expressing myself, but I meant the loss of the Croatian insurance market, i.e. the impact they had on the market, but I want to believe that the new acquirer will stabilise that business, especially if it enters the market for these Slovenian insurance companies, again from Croatia insurance will do what it used to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114467	I suggest we hear more on behalf of Croatian Labour fellow Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114468	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, Chief State Auditors. Although unplanned, I will begin my debate on this subject on the findings of the State Audit on the budget. What was resented or resented by the government about the state budget? Part of the irregularities identified by the audit for the previous years were repeated in 2014. We have a special term "buktesh" in Međimurje for repeaters. It's the one that falls class, so the second time they go to the same first or fifth grade. Next, so they're bouquets. Next Croatia's insurance. The state audit found that the sale of the state's share in Croatia's insurance was not carried out under the law they believe should have been respected. It is unacceptable and unacceptable that anyone in the Parliament, including a colleague, Linic, says that a state auditor has taken it as a right to interpret the laws and I urge them all to read Article 54. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, adopted in 2010 which clearly provides for the status of State Audit, the Office of State Audit and the Chief State Auditor. The state audit is authorized to control and interpret a hundred laws not only one, but it correctly interpreted them. The parliament could already clarify the basis of the government's proposal to interpret the laws, based on the initiative of ruling clubs. Anyway, but no one's running any proceedings, and now I'm asking myself: will the Parliament accept this State Audit report? If we accept the fact that the law was not respected because that's what it says. If the report is not accepted, it will either be a message to announce the change in the State Audit or a trick will be applied to receive the report to knowledge, as usually happens when a dispute occurs. But it is not good to leave things unclear because of the Office of State Audit and the Chief State Auditor, both for the Parliament and for the government and for the owners of Croatia's security and for the securities market. The problem must end those who are authorized not to bid, I think. Such laws are not interpreted. That's not how you get out of a dispute. The relevant body shall make decisions after the hearing and the majority shall decide. If there is no readiness in the Assembly, it shall be the Constitutional Court, but the bitterness in the mouth shall not remain. No one. And that's the main thing. And let's no longer allow anyone in the House to address a state auditor there after these provisions of the Constitution that I have read. And that must be clear to everyone. But that's not all. It states in the State Audit that the Ministry of Economy is in charge of 361 million kuna on behalf of the Republic of Croatia because of the debts of shipbuilding not shown in the Masterbook, nor in the implementation of the budget, nor in the lack of funds or deficits. How is it possible for one ministry to be in charge on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, not to be shown either in the Main Book or in the implementation of the budget or in the deficit for this reason? ... I don't believe that any such thing is allowed by a fellow Shucker. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I'll come up with a national methodology. That's not all. The government had to, and did not make a decision by which funds, institutions and other legal entities with public authority would have to invest the surplus of their funds in the state budget. That is why they did not do it, and they have left it at their disposal. The state budget is short of money. Yeah, where'd he stay? There. Why? Because there's no decision that should have been passed by law. Okay. As regards the aid to HBOR exporters, the regulation is that these guarantees can be granted on behalf of Croatia up to 3 million. Yeah, that's $5 million. If it took 5 million is the problem changing the rules, regulations? Or because of its willingness to make difficult decisions, as the prime minister said yesterday, it is better to break regulations and laws. Health care. Six-and-a-half billion invested in recovery and other debts only HZZO billion 890. My colleagues and colleagues, there are nine months on the agenda waiting for the Labour Club's conclusion proposal to discuss the effects of recovery of the health system and we cannot open this topic. Obviously, we're going to get into a new one, you need to get into a new health recovery program, and we haven't done an analysis of the effects of the last recovery, and that's why they're all failing. Because we never do an impact analysis. And now I'm stopping at the State Audit finds and their grudges about how to manage public money, I've singled out only the most important ones. And if this whole set isn't serious enough to worry about then the State Review should no longer and should do this review of the state budget if there is no movement behind it, if the government is year after year... In all of that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you have noticed in the display of macroeconomic environments that have affected the implementation of such a budget as is mentioned, even shyly and deflation, which is explained by the fact that domestic demand has fallen among other things. When we discussed the CNB report and she shyly mentioned deflation. And nothing to anyone. And that is especially true for those who teach lessons today, and for their former party colleagues, they don't look back. Deflation corresponds to the owners of money whose assets are becoming more and more valuable while reducing consumption leading to an increase in the unemployment of the economic crisis. When prices fall due to productivity growth, technical development, technology and organisation or tax reduction, that's good. However, in all other cases, the drop in prices leads to the collapse of certain economic branches and, if the deflation continues, there are also severe economic crises, stagnation of the economy, depression, growth in unemployment and decline in investment. Croatia is in deflation. They were scaring us with inflation all the time. Theoreticals say if inflation is an evil deflation is a immeasurable, monster and destroying economy far more than inflation itself. The report on the implementation of the budget shows that VAT revenue in 2014 was 40.9 billion a year before 40.2 billion. So, I'd say they stagnate or grow slightly. This is the first information that suggests that domestic demand and purchases fall one of the reasons is deflation. In addition, in charge of excise duties, the only shifts, and the most significant share of excise duties are electricity excise duties that increased from 6.4 to 7 billion and 100 and tobacco 3.6 to 3.8. And with coffee excises on coffee, it seems that the biggest contribution to the increase in excise incomes has made coffee and smokers, as absurd as that sounds. It's a good thing the borrowing was done less than planned, so 35 billion, not 42.6 as originally planned. However, data on the trend in household consumption show that in 2012 it fell 3% to the 3% drop in 2013. 1,3 and 0,7 more in 2014 for this fall. When you look at those tax revenues from VAT and this data you come to what we have warned since the start of the mandate that by ruining the purchasing power of the population we will not get out of the crisis. And when the decline in household consumption began to decrease, it began to grow partially and to produce. Investments, and remember the definition of deflation I read to you, what happens when it's deflation? In 2012, gross fixed capital investments were down 3.3%. So to that minus in 2013. -1, and in 2014 another -4%. So, please, when we talk about the investment climate in Croatia other than bureaucratic barriers, unsettled land books, frequent tax changes, everything else we remember is that deflation affects the drop in investment because consumers expect a further drop in prices and do not buy lasting goods, and investors expect further decline and capital prices of technology and technology and wait and expect even more favourable prices. And in that delay of consumption, in that delaying and consumption, we enter the spiral to drop production because it has fallen, because the market has fallen and sales have dropped, demand. And now I'm asking, does deflation as one of the factors of the continued economic crisis really not need to be discussed at all? It will remain what I said, no one sees it as a serious problem except for several economic experts in Croatia who keep trying to warn it. Neither the CNB nor the Government nor the Ministry of Finance nor anyone else understands or conceals that it is a fundamental problem, that this is where our new problem begins. Interestingly, in the macroeconomic environments tourism is not mentioned either in a negative or in a positive context. Last year's tourist season had nothing to do with it because it wasn't mentioned. Maybe that's why, maybe here I am, because in Croatia we have developed a tremendously large capacity so-called. all inclusive tourism, everything is contained. At 1 dollar consumption in this kind of tourist offer, the national economy benefits 5 cents. That's not my calculation, that's the calculation of European tourism experts. Of the $1 spending national economy benefits 5 cents and that's true. We will continue to develop it and then we will say that we will sell Croatian food in tourism. In this tourism, nothing is sold Croatian except utility fees, electricity and water, but not those in bottles it comes to planes or ships, the one that goes for sanitary needs, and that's all. And I'm finishing up the following, from all this data and audits and budgeting two interesting, let's go monetize and arrange highways. So we have a monetized part of the roads in Croatia and contracts concluded. Bina-Istra 227.2 million kuna in last year paid the Croatian people from the state budget to the concessionaire. It says, it says. And Zagreb-Macelj 38.5 million was paid to the concessionaire. Because we have, we have had ideally good and capable experts who have put together and signed such contracts and state concessionaries to pay, not us, but us to them. It's our experience in monetizing roads it doesn't matter which, it's our experience, it's our present, everyday. I have provided this information only because of those who do not yet understand why such a great resistance is to attempt to monetize highways and concession highways and all those who advocate it do not pour in, and especially the current ministers, especially the current resolution minister does not give me the minimum confidence that he is able to draw up and sign a contract that would go in favour of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114469	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114470	Thank you very much. Col. Lesar, your picturesque and all the reasonable speech has explained many topics from this report, and also from the state of economy and finance of the Republic of Croatia not only in 2014 but from further up. When, come on, I'll start at the end, so from tourism, and when we talk about tourism and income of about 8 billion, that would mean those 5 cents that actually the Republic of Croatia's economy was incometing 40 million euros, not how you say those 8 billion total sums of money from tourism. But what I wanted especially highlighted in your speech is the shipyard. So 50 million euros or 360 million kuna is actually unlicensed, so I would call it a layman for the economy, it's unlicensed and given to shipyards in the last year. How can this be given at all without having to register there is nowhere in the data etc. ... except for the state audit report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When you talk about deflation and therefore the price drops and the benefits that someone has, it's a small, small minority and in fact all the expensive because of waiting on the stand by investors are to be deflation maybe even bigger to invest then. We have total damage, all of us. And about that, in particular, I wanted to highlight the findings of the state audit that was here before, we had a state audit report, so that intellectual services have a share in public service salaries only of 2% and intellectual services according to the findings of the state audits take a lot more than 2%, and then Croatia is full of life that is paid 2 million and 800 thousand kuna and some other jobs are included in these intellectual services, so much more money is given and no one reacts to that surplus in 2%, no one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114471	Thank you. Dragutin Lesar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114472	When I was talking about those 5 cents per dollar, I pointed out that this refers to the kind of tourism all inclusive, so not in general for tourism, that's where you're being fenced, where security guards, where citizens or other tourists can't even stink, so where everything is being sold foreignly or everything is involved so there's no confusion. And when it comes to deflation, to an ordinary man, people seem to be doing well when prices fall both in general consumption and everywhere, and they don't understand how a drop in prices can be caused by an economic crisis, and clearly this is the problem that no one can, because there is no debate and there is not enough to understand that deflation is more destructive than inflation for one economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114473	Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114474	My colleague Lesar, I'll start from the last thing you said about the share of tourism. I don't know what those estimates are, but the fact that tourism makes as much as 17% of Croatia's GDP, that's the share of tourism in GDP. Now to whom he has been distributed and how much benefit privates and how many states and so on. it is possible that you are somewhere in an analysis possible and so analyzed, but generally it is an extremely important engine for the Croatian economy. I agree it's too much about the percentage. Because let's say countries that are significantly more touristic let's say from Croatia like France, which has the biggest incomes, the biggest turnover in tourism and the country most visited in the world, in them the share of tourism in GDP is only 3%. And that's good, so it's a strong economy, so it's a strong economy. But what is important about Croatia's insurance, look, we have a problem today that the President of the Parliament does not allow the National Council which was formed as the second working body a proposal for a conclusion by which the State Audit would be tasked to carry out a review of the privatisation of Croatia's insurance. Of course, a colleague named Linic opposed it. That is why he is in this way actually insulting the main state auditor and his associates to the General State Audit trying to take their role down on perhaps unfounded etc.. However, the fact is that this was made by international standards that it did not comply with the law that is in force, the fact that there are numerous failures and it seems that we should determine how Croatia's insurance is privatised. The more we know who came to Croatia for insurance to prepare for sale. I think things are more than clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114475	Dragutin Lesar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114476	Very short. The number and presentation of the tourist season through night count means nothing and I will always be interested only in the following, how much tax income from tourism is under a) and under b) how much profit remains in Croatia, so how much profits are left in Croatia. And the number of nights and the number of tourists doesn't interest me at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114477	And Joseph Kregar, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114478	I thank you for your encouraging exposure. I'd just like to say two things briefly. Here is the issue of tourism, not criticising tourism as our priority activity, but the fact that it is paid outside the country and that the country has nothing and the national economy is also nothing. But I'm reporting for another. The task of the State Audit is to bring bad news, if you didn't do it, we wouldn't need it. If the State Audit did not find irregularities then constitutional protection would not be necessary. They're messengers of bad news, but that doesn't mean that we shouldn't consider bad news something that's not an incentive to fix what's been found. That's why I thank Mr. Lesar, but I'm also questioning the possibility of a decision. If we accept the State Audit report, then we have confirmed a business that is in line with their rules that includes, in addition, prevention and education. It's not just about identifying irregularities. If we turn it down then we have actually imposed a task on those institutions and governments as a whole that they found themselves called in that report. But I'm reporting because I find it unacceptable third, which is to take note of the report because then we took responsibility and guilt for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114479	Dragutin Lesar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114480	I completely agree with you, Mr. Craiger. The worst option would be taking note because then we're not participants, we become the main and only culprits. And I agree with the approach to acceptance and rejection. And that means you agree with me that we have to push this thing all the way out? Great. And I mentioned tourism precisely because I have a feeling, so I am not an expert on tourism, but that the structure and shape of our tourism to a greater extent encourages the growth of the external economy than the Croatian economy. It makes me sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114481	We'll continue the debate at 15.00 hours. First in line will be my colleague Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114482	We're going back to work. It's the HDSSB's Club of Representatives and Honorable Representative Kresimir Bubalo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114483	Thank you, well-respected deputy president, dear Mr. Klesic with his associates, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. We have a lot of material ahead of us, a lot of it has been said but we at the HDSSB Club are most interested in where Slavonia and Baranja are in the budget. Looking at the implementation, last year's budget that 127 billion kuna was spent, that Croatia was in debt, that we had a new deficit and that we had all those problems that we had. But for us as a regional option that looks very closely at what is happening capitalally or does not happen in Slavonia and Baranja, we can find that there was almost nothing in these 127 billion kuna capital investments for Slavonia and Baranja and that is what we are particularly concerned about. There's also a lot that's been said that happened last year in a macroeconomic environment, and I'm going to say something, but I'm glad we're recording some positive shifts this year. But today we are still discussing 2014 and we see certain policies especially in the budgets of municipalities and cities in 2015, we see weak fillings. We see that units of local and regional administration will not be able to finance and pre-financing work for European funds and that will certainly be a big problem. But what is evident is that the state budget has grown year after year. So here's a note last year that the expenditures also went up in the last year by nearly 2.5 billion kuna. However, when we look at municipalities and cities, I can tell you, for example, the city of Osijek since 2009 almost a third of the budget in Osijek has dropped, for example. And when we look at the state budget, it's like we didn't go into a time of crisis, like everything in the country's been booming since 2009. So here we can say that such a situation will still be able to drive probably for a year, two, but not long, it's a major deficit in the last year. And when we look at the deficit of $13.5 billion and we look at the governor's statements then we can just say and repeat what the governor said the other day, when he mentioned Greece, he said so proudly, so that Croatia is obliged to Greece and not Greece to us. You've always talked, I remember since you were little, when you owe as much as Greece, then you're in big trouble. But the governor's statement that Croatia is obliged to Greece only speaks of our strength. Therefore, looking at our credit rating, watching Croatia be in debt year after year and how the left and right sides here argue who is more in charge of their mandate whether HDZ or SDP, so I would say both are ruthlessly in debt to our Republic of Croatia and the time has come when they will have to draw a line in Croatia. And looking at the gross foreign debt of 46.7 billion euros and seeing it increased by 750m euros last year then we can say what will happen when it is no longer on the market for cheap money. And today I will ask one question in the Croatian Parliament and we are discussing this point, it refers to this point because several months ago, I sent a request to the Minister of Finance as a parliamentary representative to provide me with the exact information on how much the Republic of Croatia owes with amounts, currencies and maturity deadlines. I must admit that I did not receive this document after a few months and this is what I will ask both this way and the President of the Croatian Parliament to address the Minister of Finance and to finally deliver this information to me as a parliamentary representative. Because it is very important for the implementation of the budget and for our future, the future of the Republic of Croatia. If we do not know how to master what we have, if we do not know how to manage public debt, if we do not know how to look for cheaper solutions and better solutions for the Republic of Croatia when it comes to borrowing and refinance existing liabilities, then let us not deal with this business. Looking at last year, seeing that in 2013, we had an income of 108 billion kuna, last year 114, looking at the expenditure side from 125 to 127 billion and looking at the deficit from 16 to 12 billion then we could say as a smaller deficit is 4 billion than 2013. Croatia is going for better. It's a long way from being good friends because we need to get in balance, not share our packs. According to this, fiscal measures have been taken but are not sufficient. We have a lot of problems in Croatia, but in Croatia there are no greenfield investments, our young ones are leaving because we haven't withdrawn as much funds as we could. So when we pay more membership fees than we withdraw funds, then we can be in the HDSSB Club worried. Looking at the budget and looking at the implementation for last year when we see that the profit tax decreased by 12% that clearly speaks about the inefficientness of the Croatian economy by looking at goods and services, then we can watch excise duties, alcohol and alcoholic beverages turn out to be 35% more drunk in Croatia than it was a year earlier. When we watch tobacco and tobacco sales, it grew by 7 percent. It turns out that Croats smoke more and if all those trunks crossing the borders of the Republic of Croatia from Bogojev to Bosnia were properly examined, then it would be seen that much more smoke is being done in Croatia. But by looking at addiction, we can also say under the 6147 tax on gambling gains and other taxes, although we can see that some have been betting dangerously on the newspaper when we read, by 417% the income has increased. Looking at the health insurance contributions they've grown, but it's because of those rates we've changed, it clearly speaks about irresponsible policy and these governments because one day can't be rate 15, the second day 13, the day before the 15%. Thus, it indicates that we are not responsible enough and that we do not know how to predict the situation. What I want to commend is point 3.2. Material expenditures, they fell by almost 7% and it can be welcomed, but it's still not enough. Therefore, we need to cut what can be cut in the budget, and this must be imperative and it must have been in its 4-year term of the Croatian government's imperative. Looking at the financial expenditures that we've been up 4.8%, so I'm asking again what happens when the interest goes up and when our capital price increases. But when we look at our net funding, Croatia was in a lot of debt last year, and we certainly care about it, but there comes a time when credit ratings will fall into the trash and credit debt will be increasingly difficult for the Republic of Croatia, and I'm afraid we should have avoided it today, reducing costs, investing and encouraging and state-owned businesses to invest, watching where we can do business more rationally, looking to rationalise local and regional administration units in Croatia, to unite the counties, work regions and be as efficient as possible. And also by looking at the macroeconomic environment, we can say that a lot of this has been going down and here's the budget we've been growing. Some mentioned today when we talk about the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, he fell by 16925, but there was no reason for employment because the number of employees fell by 22149. This is a sign that people are going abroad, it is only a confirmation that in Croatia almost 100,000 people of the most promising, most efficient part of the population that had to remain in the Republic of Croatia and for which solutions had to be sought. But when we look at macroeconomic indicators, when we look at household consumption, it fell last year, we look at state spending, when we look at gross investment, they fell by 4%, but when we look at industrial production, it grew by 1.3%, and it encourages us. But looking at this year, we can say that we have certain macroeconomic indicators that point to one positive trend, but we missed three years, there was no economic growth, our prices weren't stable, and also by looking at a positive trade balance we come up with some more positive indicators, but that's still not enough. What I want to say is about the State Audit. I must admit, while I was mayor and mayor, I always read from cover to cover the State Audit opinions and it was very important to me. Therefore, I particularly welcome Mr Ivan Klesic, the head of the state auditor, and I want to say it is good that you write a lot, but what is much more important is that we see what the grudges are, which was removed from last year, and which is not removed from the irregularities observed last year. We see that the ministries are getting more and more conditional opinions, that they don't seem to respect the recommendations, and that's what's wrong, that's what's not good. Therefore, when the State Review is to expect our opinion during and itself to give an opinion... to remove certain irregularities. It is imperative and therefore there is a State Audit that the ministries act in accordance with the opinions of the State Audit. I told Mr. Radjenović earlier in the replica, when we see that the Ministry of Finance's resolution does not carry out its obligations properly, when it carries out commitments in the next fiscal year, and in particular it is obvious in the Ministry of Health, so here is when we look at the 24th page of that report, when we see that 2 billion and 917 million and 238 kuna are significant obligations, of which billions and 959 of the Ministry of Health, then surely it is not possible to run a forward ministry, the Ministry of Finance. In view of the fact that the revision found that part of the irregularities identified by the audit was repeated for the previous year. It's just a sign that the resolution ministries didn't respect what the State Audit wrote. Therefore, my suggestion to the prime minister, if some minister does not do his job well, if the State Audit is not listened to, if from year to year a bunch of problems and does not solve the existing problems, it is not for the minister. But also when we talk about state systems, public enterprises. Therefore, when it says in such a report that the Ministry of Finance has not regulated the accounting principles applicable to the drawing-up of a report on the implementation of the state budget, when we see that, with the recognition of revenue and expenditure, there are no data on the deficit, they are not reliable, so I wonder when they read this report from the European Commission, so what kind of opinion can they have on our Minister of Finance or our Prime Minister. (b) drawing up and drawing up planning documents. If we don't plan for the next time, if we're late with the plans, then we're not doing well either. There's also a whole series of irregularities that indicate that we haven't done well in the resolution ministries, and here I will look back at the f-control of the upcoming accounts that the HBOR has highlighted to the State Treasury and the Ministry of Finance, that they are insufficient. So what the people of HBOR are doing, the presidents of the administration are changing there as they go on tape, and I see here for months there's a point of HBOR coming down, and I know that the reason that it goes down is that 34% of HBOR had less plasma last year. Well, that's clear to all of us, so let's talk about the subject. You've changed three management presidents, and we can see that they were ineffective in the past 2014. Therefore, these topics should not be fled to the Croatian Parliament. We want the economy to move forward, especially the exporters. If the HBOR isn't doing well, then the people sitting on the Supervisory Board are also responsible, and that's where I think of the people from the resolution ministries. We also have a floor and a report on borrowing on the domestic and foreign money markets, and I said that the finance minister doesn't seem to be able to write down all the obligations, so he didn't provide me with this request and that my question as a parliamentary representative, although the debtor didn't answer. There's enough of those irregularities we've got here that's been spotted. The state audit is worth doing its job, but we expect that according to the State Audit recommendations, everyone is acting as they are required to carry out their duties, not to build new ones. So here's what I want to talk about is the implementation of the Croatian Road Finance Plan. There wasn't much talk today about it, but the other day I asked Minister Hajdas Doncic to do it, so why did the ministers cancel the 5C corridor tender. Well, here's the answer I got these days. He wrote a few reasons. But I'm afraid the reason is because of the team that used to run the contests that worked those tunnels and was re-preparing a competition that wasn't good. However, when we see that the deficit last year in the Croatian roads is 719 million 188 thousand 646 kuna, and that no tender for corridor 5C has been opened, nothing nearly capital investment has been made in Slavonia and Baranja, and then we cannot accept in HDSSB the implementation of the Croatian Roads Financial Plan and the negative result of 719 million kuna. It clearly indicates that Croatian roads will have to be financed in another way, that other models will have to be sought. But it is evident that here and in these dubiosiss there are also tunnels and gaps that have been made in the past years, and unfortunately in Slavonia and Baranja it did not continue to build the 5C corridor that is the breadth of the housewives for our space. Therefore, looking at all these indicators, and I want to look back at what the minister said at the beginning, as I mentioned, and in his replica in Croatia, order must be introduced, we must reduce costs, all have to carry out their obligations neatly within the payment deadlines as defined by the law, so whether they tycoons carry out their obligations to farmers, whether they trade chains or whether they are resolute Ministry of Finance. If it says here that our deficit was this amount of 12 billion, and Mr. Shuker says he's 18.7 billion, and we're probably somewhere in the middle. Therefore, we must keep our finances neatly, we must carry out our obligations neatly, and they will then and as such respect us and those who look at us from the European Commission, houses that evaluate our credit rating, credit risk because it is our imperative. So, looking at the execution for last year but also when we know that you had a rebalance a few days before the end of the year, then we can say that the rebalancing could have been done differently, that we could have fulfilled our obligations much more accurately. But I sincerely hope that when we talk about budgeting for 2015, we say that macro-economic indicators will be better, but what I sincerely hope is that although there is not much in the budget that there will finally be some capital investments for Slavonia and Baranja. Because as my colleague Drmic said today at the beginning of this session because I'm afraid the prime minister will have health problems. I mean his hand, and I don't particularly want anyone who spends more on the state budget than he does. Unfortunately, though, in the coming years, we will no longer be able to spend more than we have, we will be able to spend only what we have, for we will not be able to borrow more. Therefore, there comes a time when a line must be drawn, and this could have happened three years ago at the start of the government's mandate. Therefore, Slavonia and Baranja remain in prison. We are not satisfied with this implementation of the budget, because Slavonia and Baranja did not get what they needed. Unfortunately, however, the potential of local administration units, I mean municipalities, cities, and counties, is not such that in this year they will be able to withdraw funds that are important to us. Therefore, by looking at the withdrawn European funds, we could have done much more, but that is why it is necessary to help municipalities and cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114484	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honoured Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114485	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, you've raised a number of questions in your presentation, and one of them is the number of employees. And we really need to realize that in 2014 there was never a small number of employees in Croatia. And with that finding, that fact falls into the water all the allegations that come from the government that the number of employees has increased, which has cost us all year round 2014 that the number of employees is to increase. And we never had a smaller number of employees than we did in 2014. I think there has been a full policy of inefficientness of the government in the field of new employment, an increase in the number of employees in Croatia. It means opening new jobs, etc. The problem is, of course, the number of employees, the number of unemployed fell, but there are more reasons why the number of unemployed fell. It's just like it's falling now because of the seasonal affairs of course. But unfortunately, it also falls due to the fact that the majority, a good part of those who are unemployed, are looking for their job abroad, in the European Union. Of course, they have the right to do so because, unfortunately, Croatia did not provide them with insurance, the current government did not provide them with a job that could work in Croatia, where they could earn money for their bread and their family. There's a problem. You were talking about privatisation, irregularities, we've been pointing out all morning, so I wouldn't repeat myself in that part. But I think it's really worrying that he's trying to convince us that the number of employees is increasing, but here are the facts that come both from both the government and the audits and clearly say that's not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114486	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114487	Comrade Matusic, this government is wonderfully solving the problem of the unemployed, and it is seen from day to day. One part of the problem is solved by bus station, one by train station, and one by airport. I'm afraid we've left Croatia over 100,000 people in a short time, the most active, most promising part of the population. So we have to change these things. Unfortunately, this finding and these figures are correct but I sincerely hope that this year's trend will change. But you mentioned privatisation earlier, I didn't touch the privatisation much, because it would take a while, and then you'd probably go back to the '90s. But what is continuity also in all these years is the inefficientness of DUUDI and the availability of state assets, state shares. There we could have been much more efficient, much better because a little while ago when I was talking about the spending side we could cut costs on the spending side and there's a lot of room there but also on the income side we could do a lot of things and in particular focus on the most inefficient system, and it's called DUUDI, so I call on the state auditor to also deal with DUUDI. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114488	Second replica, Honored Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114489	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, this topic related to calculation methodologies will certainly be a subject not only today but still. All those dealing with a little calculation and calculation of deficits, as well as public debt, are clear that there are several methodologies to be applied to the calculation of deficits. That methodology that I have already replicated but clearly needs to repeat the cash method in essence shows the revenues and expenditures of the state budget realised. In 2010, the ESA methodology includes or excludes certain revenues according to EUROSTAT statistics, and this is how the European Commission sees, both for us and for others. However, there are always different methodologies in most countries, and they are united by the ESA 2010 for the EU. Therefore, neither the Ministry of Finance nor the European Commission is wrong, and it is common to manipulate numbers by not wanting to clearly or entering into what is content or by showing that the Republic of Croatia itself, or this government itself, wants to show the wrong numbers and to show that something is better or worse. So, the ESA methodology in 2010 will repeat once again at this point for 2014 has shown certain, did not want to accept the revenue that we have transferred from the benefited internship to the budget, but realistically, according to the cash methodology, it was necessary and it was realised and it was ultimately determined by the State Audit. So let's not confuse things by comparing methodology with methodology and then comment on whether a particular deficit is better or worse by one or another methodology.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114490	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114491	Thank you very much. A fellow Gjurkovic for us at the HDSSB is what is most important, which is that from year to year is a huge deficit. The methodology of this one or her, it's obvious that we spend a lot more than we have. I know that at the beginning of the term of office you came across skeletons in the closet and that they are falling out and there are guarantees and other things that have fallen out at this age, but when we look at last year 2014, it is evident that you said in your reports, our resolution ministry and the ruling majority, that the deficit is 12 billion and 819 289. Shuker says 18.7 billion. Well, here I want to believe it's 12 billion and 812, but that's too much. We can't have that kind of deficit. This is what the European Commission is giving us, etc. If we do not want our children to be in charge and not speak someday, you will be obliged like Croatia, then we need to take our spending side into the frameworks, work on the income side and not spend more than we spend.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114492	The third replica, the esteemed Hrvoje Nejdić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114493	Comrade Bubalo, you said for three years this government has done nothing. I wouldn't agree. So in these three years of work, this government has been working to solve the chaos and riots that we found after the work of the last government. And right now those results are visible. Where do you see them? Exiting recession, economic growth, employment growth, export growth, investment growth and a number of other positive indicators. I'm really sorry that you don't see these positive results and that you keep trying to cause some sort of uncertainty atmosphere among our citizens. And as for the minister himself you mentioned, Minister of Finance, I'm really sorry that you feel that way about a man who I think you can say is doing his job very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114494	Answer, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114495	Well, here's what I would do if I were to evaluate the work of certain ministers, so Mr. Lalovec might be one of the highest marks in this government. But that's not the result, and that's not the grade he would've gotten up with. But when we talk about three years of government work, we certainly expected a lot more, we expected this ruling majority would not deviate from Plan 21 and will work on it, from regionalisation, decentralisation, expenditure cuts. But we see in the entire term that only expenditures have grown. So, I'd like to see the results, and I'd like to see the first fellow to compliment, so here's the thing, and in my debate, I caught 2, 3 data, and there's not much, but I caught 2, 3 data from last year, so I commended. Let's say the reduction in material costs and I praised two, three macroeconomic elements that give in macroeconomic indicators some meaning that maybe this year might be better. But what's the most important thing about a colleague? When you talk on the ground, and I'm every day all over Slavonia and Baranja, then when you see that 1/3 of villages or municipalities have moved in the past 2, 3 years then you see that there are no results in Croatia, then you see that they are in Ireland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway. Unfortunately, we cannot be happy about this and the imperative must be that people stay in Slavonia and Baranja, in a region where the least underdeveloped is. Therefore, when we saw that you had brought us together in this regionalization with the City of Zagreb, it turns out that we on average live in Slavonia and Baranja. This is not a good division, therefore at least in this division we expected Slavonia and Baranja to be a whole, these five existing counties in the natural and historical whole but with a degree of development that is equal in these counties. Therefore, the Bug does not call for uncertainty, the Bug calls for security, the Bug calls for order in finance, and that is what the HDSSB is asking this government to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114496	Thank you. The time for discussion on behalf of the SDP club will be shared by colleagues Ivo Jelusic and Vice President Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114497	Dear Mr. Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry, the state audits while I was in the economy before this job, I was always happy and happy when the business year ended in a way that revenues were realised according to planned and expenditures were lower. And every businessman is pleased when it happens to him, when incomes are realised as planned or slightly more than that, and expenditures are lower. Even at home when we do our own household finances, we're probably satisfied if we can finish the year. Well, I think we should be happy when the state does that, when the revenues come in line with the planned or a little bit more than that, and the expenditures are less. And that happened to us last year. But that's what we avoid saying or shyly saying, and here I am still going to say it because it really happened. So the revenues were realised almost in line with the plan, the index for one prominence greater than planned, so almost identical, almost excellently planned. But the expenditures are less than 2.5 billion than planned and that's good and that's what to say, and that's why the deficit is also smaller than it was planned for by 2.8 billion, or if you look at it based on what we planned, but according to the previous year it's smaller by 3.4 billion. So the deficit was 12.8 billion, not 15.6 as planned or even more as it was the previous year. I repeat, the deficit was 12.8 billion. It may need to be repeated several times, several times because it is constantly spoken, spoken and spoken here today and especially spoken a few months ago when the Statistics Bureau came out with data that the deficit is 18 and even spoken will be he here in this assembly from the ranks here on the right of me that there will be 20 billion etc. So the ominous was predicted. You see, the deficit really was the same as 12.8 billion, not 18 in a national methodology that is not our own invention, nor the invention of this government, but a methodology that applies all the years, applied by governments before and applied almost all the EU countries. Therefore, if all by the same methodology shows why not us and that methodology is thus a deficit of 12.8 billion. And I remember a few months ago when colleagues from the HDZ, not only here, but they had a press in their party and the president of their party came out about how the prime minister was lying, that he wasn't a deficit of 12 but 18 billion, etc. And here's what we see from the data that no one has lied to anyone but the data is really like this. If a methodology is applied to which colleagues speak, the EU methodology is therefore an ESA methodology that is true, and we do not dispute that the deficit would then be 18 billion but no one according to that methodology shows either we nor we, and on the other hand, if that methodology shows I have already said and I will repeat the deficit in the last 3 years of HDZ rule would be 63.6 billion kuna. That's the data, that's the data that's very easily verifiable. Since some doubt I'll say by age it would be then 2009. 17.4, 2010. 20.6a 2011. 25.7 billion. It is a total of 63.6 billion which is more than 20% of the total Croatian debt and today the debt would not be 85 or 88% depending on which month we are looking than it would be 20 to 25% lower. So why does someone need the wrong data to be, untrue, etc. Probably to show that this government is working badly, and as they do well, however, as the people's saying, "There are short legs in a lie," you can't live on false and false information for a long time, either on this one. When you preside, then. But let me say about income something. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114498	Do not throw your fellow Shucker off the bench, let your colleague present his views on behalf of the SDP club and has the right to speak and do not disturb him. ... You'll get another warning if you keep throwing off the bench. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114499	I'd be begging Mr. Chairman to, I'm asking you to get me this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114500	... Look to our Rules of Procedure, no one has the right to speak until the chairman gives him his word, so if you throw off the bench I warn you you will get another warning, and then you will no longer be able to talk about this item on the agenda. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So be careful. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114501	Thank you, Chairman, for being here, and thank you President, and I would like to be protected in the future because I simply can't speak from here if someone keeps throwing and interrupting me. I would pray that my HDZ colleagues don't interfere with me like I won't interfere with them. But let's talk a little bit about income. So the revenues were said I was in line with planned and significantly higher than in 2013, but let's see what makes them bigger, some just items. So we have an increase in income tax revenues by 2%, and that income tax rates are not changed, they are not increased. The main part of this increase in true God's main part of the increase was felt by local self-government units because most income income incomes there are elements of not the state budget, but the main part is because order has been introduced. First, a central salary account was introduced, on the other hand, which introduced order and which now has to be taxed and paid by all. It's not a college Malta not like it was, some could have paid some, if they hadn't paid a huge tax debt, now the tax finally has to pay everyone. Well, if nothing else this government did, it only made that order in the state enough. And she's done a lot more than that. We also have an increase of special taxes and excise duties on those, how can I say maybe we couldn't have had a significant impact on where we went to equate with the EU, first of all talking about the excise duties on cigarettes and tobacco where we were evened out, fulfilled if I can say so, the obligation is to introduce minimum regulated excise duties on cigarettes that are 77 euros per thousand pieces of cigarettes or somewhere around 12 kuna per pack of cigarettes. We also applied a different way of taxing cars where we introduced so-called. The ecological principle, therefore, of CO2 emissions, has increased excise duties on alcohol, so on everything without which people and debt and cigarettes can live and is not the basic need of life. As for expenditure, I said they were smaller by 2.3 billion than planned, but they would have been far less if there hadn't been some extraordinary expenditure. So there were extraordinary expenditures almost a billion, of which only 400 and some million were related to the flood. And you can't plan the flood six days earlier, let alone six months earlier as the budget was passed, so it really couldn't have been predicted. There has also been a reduction in the employment rate, also due to the introduction of order, rather than the central salary account, so if you want and the debt salary has been reduced 6%. It's not some big financial effect, it has more than one moral and political message, which is that officials give up more than others do. Finally, it should be said that for the first time in the history of the Republic of Croatia last year, a smaller number of state administration employees were recorded for nearly 2.5 thousand people. The first time since Croatia exists is less employed in public administration and that is something to be acknowledged. No one's ever been able to do that before. Material expenditures are also lower. Why? Well, probably because it was about rationalization and saving what you're always talking about, so why don't you point it out and say it. Where we could not influence and where our expenditures were growing, these are primarily financial expenditures, and above all for interest. 96% of the financial expenditure is related to interest and they amounted to nearly 10 billion 9.95 billion last year and are higher by 650 million than in the previous year 2013. Almost 80% of our deficits are eating our interest expenses, so paying for what was once created and committed to us last year came at a charge. If it hadn't been for the deficit, it would have been much, much smaller. Also last year, when we look for the previous year, then 2014 compared to 2013, we had some other expenditure we had not had before, such as an additional contribution or membership fee for the EU, which is by a billion and 800 more than in 2013 because we paid for the whole year in 2013 for half a year. So when we add up all that membership, interest or contribution to the EU, the increase in interest expenditure, the extraordinary expenditure for the flood we couldn't predict, it's somewhere around 3.5 billion, 3.5 billion more, or to say new expenditures that we didn't have in 2013, and yet we saved 2.3 billion. So, apparently, state finances are run fairly responsibly and rationally. We didn't really follow the fiscal rule, but the question of whether or not it was real and whether it was realistic. In the macroeconomic indicators we had last year, it was really hard to do. But last year we have some positive indicators and you can see if I can say that light at the end of the tunnel. We had growth in industrial production 6%, after 6 years for the first time we had growth in industrial production, it did not happen in Croatia for 6 years. We've had the growth of retail trade on a small scale, the growth of personal consumption, the growth of exports. We had an increase in tourist nights, a decline in unemployment, so all of these are indicators that the Croatian economy has started to change and that Croatia is doing better. And these trends continue in this year 2015 and we see certain optimism that Croatia has finally come out of the crisis because we all have positive indicators that are important for GDP growth that are source growth, employment, industrial production, pay increases, increase in personal consumption, even construction has not grown in seven years. And on the job, I'm done with another sentence and I'm done with it. It is said that Croatia has a fall and employees, that is not true. In May of this year we had a growth in employment by 1% compared to the previous year in 2013, and why did employees fall last year? Simply for statistical reasons, because we've introduced order because we've deleted so-called. Inactive companies of them over 31 thousand who had 20,000 unemployed. If we hadn't put in that order, we wouldn't have had to pay for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114502	The vice president of the House of Honors, Dragica Zgrebec, will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114503	Thank you very much. Through the 20-year practice of the State budget audit, we can monitor the process of making state budgets through the income and expenditure planning system and their transparency, economics, borrowing, deficit, public procurement, use of budget supplies, granting guarantees, use of state assets. During this whole review period from 1995 to 2014 the state budgets have seen progress but also irregularities that are repeated or slowly eliminated. However, in recent reports, the accounts and recommendations relate to procedures that need to ensure a better quality management of state resources. This also speaks of the good direction of state finances, the educational work of the current State Audit Office but also the need for additional knowledge and skills of the administration in charge of the state budget or state finances. In this report, the audit gave a conditional opinion for the implementation of the state budget, and it gave, pointed out the reasons, I will not be able to talk about everything for a short time, but I will set out something that I think is important. Recurring the work of irregularities identified by earlier audits and relating to the different accounting bases in the recognition of revenue and expenditure of budgetary and non-financial beneficiaries, which has an impact on the presentation of deficits. In Croatia, we need to gradually level the elements for the calculation of deficits in line with Eurostat methodology so that we do not show the deficit in any way or in any way lead to controversy. The year-long decline in gross products in Croatia already affects the very lack of revenue over expenditure, which annually then requires and a very high new debt to finance the underlying deficit. Additional elements affecting the overall deficit are important for the policy of reducing the excessive deficit and stabilising the deficit to 3% of gross products are realistic only with the growth of the gross social product based on economic growth, which means increasing employment and then increasing consumption. The audit is of the opinion that the Government should have made a decision in accordance with the Law on the implementation of the State budget on the height, manner and time of payment of surplus revenues made by agencies, institutions and other legal persons with public authority. However, the audit did not specify how much revenue would be increased in this way. We believe that the funds, that they are not lost if they are used for the better functioning of the institutions, can at any moment still be paid into the state budget. The review report found that despite the high funds for the rehabilitation of healthcare institutions there are still about a billion and 800 million and a few million outstanding commitments. It should be said when reforms and resolutions of a particular system, especially such a large system as health care, results are not achieved within a short period of time, not in one or two years, and the effects of the separation of the health fund from the Treasury should only give effect in the next period. And since I'm only going to have a few minutes left, I'd like to say something about privatising Croatia's insurance. Although Croatia's privatisation of insurance is not listed as a conditional opinion order, the audit has given an opinion in the financing account on this process by revising revenues in the budget. It refers to the decision on privatisation made by the Government and the revision thinks it should have been the Parliament, to determine the fixed number of shares for sale, to the share of the country in the underlying capital because the company is operating positively and to the level of the minimum amount of capitalisation. Although the audit has not audited Croatia's privatisation except in the budget section, budget revenue, this part of the report has brought the most attention today in the debate as well as in the media. In its argument, the Government explained the reasons why it used discretion in the sale of shares, establishing only the minimum percentage of state ownership that must remain after the sale and recapitalisation and the number of shares sold because such a combination could result in the most favourable offer. The government points out that potential customers were familiar with the criteria and could not benefit certain and individual stakeholders. This view of the revision, therefore, although not a revised privatisation process, but only income, and although it was not a condition for giving a conditional opinion, prompted two successful Croatian companies to hold a debate in a negative context. Croatia's insurance business is taking up about a little less than a third of the market in Croatia, and in order to successfully continue to deal with competition and deal with competition that was growing should have been financially strengthened, which was not possible from the state budget. I will explain the comment of the review on the privatisation decision because, through the debates so far, this issue is defined as, or the procedure as illegal. It should be taken into account that the new State Property Management Act has established the management and sale of state assets and is based on the State Property Management Strategy. The Croatian Parliament adopted a strategy in which the majority of Croatian insurance companies were listed in the section of the commercial company and I will quote that part of the Strategy: "On 15 March 2013, sales are under way in accordance with Article 36. Law on state property management of three companies of particular interest, shipbuilding industry Third May, Croatia Insurance and HPB.". Therefore, by discussing this strategy, the Croatian Parliament had knowledge of the sale of Croatia's insurance. I therefore think that given these recommendations being conducted and through the debate that our main state auditor, since he did not speak about this in the opening statement in the final address, should explain the opinion of the review, whether it was really against the procedure or whether it was just an audit of revenue through the financing account.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114504	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First at the exhibition of colleagues Jelusic. Dear Ivan Shuker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114505	I'm giving up the replica because it's impossible to correct all the lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114506	He's giving up this replica. Second replica, Branka Juričev-Martinchev, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114507	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Jelusic, your mouth is full of rationalization, savings, savings and that the expenditures were less than planned by 2%. As an economist, I'd say that's normal since the budget rebalance was in early December. However, as you explain, in early December it was planned to spend 14 million and 400 thousand on air transport and up to 31.12 that 30 million and 711 thousand were spent. As possible from the beginning of December to the end to plan, call a tender, contract and pay in this amount those air transport means. That's one of the items. Furthermore, we also have road transport vehicles, which were planned at the beginning of December, worth 300 thousand kuna to be paid by 31.12, worth a million and 742 thousand etc., means five times more. Costs to employees are generally lower and you talked about it and that's what you say well. We fear that there will be a number of new applications, court costs and damages, and, at the same time, compensation for people outside the working relationship increases up to 60 times in December.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114508	Replication response, esteemed Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114509	Dear colleagues of Juričev, I can say that I am glad to see that you have studied in detail and that is the only thing I can agree with, and that is that I am glad that you have studied in detail. However... if you look at these thousands and some pages you will find at least a hundred items where expenditures are reduced significantly... but some where they are increased. Well, it was never that some of the items were not increased, it was simply impossible. And you were able to find two. All right, but if you found two out of a thousand pages that means most of the items are really good. But most of it was reduced because if it wasn't cut, there wouldn't be a loss of 2.3 billion and that's simply a fact. You're always looking at yourself when you're looking at expenses, you're looking at the final amount of it. If it's a bit of a breakthrough somewhere, but that's why most other things have been reduced. As for the employees, I was talking about two things, I was saying that order was introduced, that a central salary account was introduced that finally introduced order into the state administration and now everyone in the same workplace, no matter where he was, had a fixed salary. There's no more dissertation rights of a boss, to give someone more or less, etc. Orders have been introduced. Why don't you ask yourself that before, and I know why. And the other thing, I also said, I guess you agree with that, too, we've cut a little bit of debt wages, by 6%, not much, but we've shown one solidarity with other people who have less pay. Well, I guess that's a good thing, too, and that's contributed to a little reduction, I hope you're okay with that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114510	The third replica, the esteemed Hrvoje Nejdić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114511	My colleague Jelusic, well, everything you said has its foothold in facts and figures. I'm really sorry that some colleagues are persistently trying to deny it. I'm sitting here listening and hearing my colleague Schucker throw out of the bench, and I think maybe his emotions got a little carried away when he was listening to your exposure, but look, obviously, he's getting nervous and it's obvious that the positive indicators of this government's work are bothering some people, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114512	Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114513	Comrade Neklic, thank you very much. Yeah, I know that when this country got better, and it started, you wanted to admit it or not, and even those who are in opposition don't have to admit it but see it, not only to see it, but I agree that they got nervous about it. I really often wonder how it is that the party considered a patriotic party or leader of a patriotic coalition is not glad that Croatia is better, that GDP is growing, employment is growing, unemployment is reduced, exports are growing, etc. It's really contradictory. I think it's patriotic to support it and be happy when it happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114514	Now they're following up on the presentation of the respected Vice President, Dragica Zgrebec. The first one will be carried out by Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114515	Thank you very much. So, colleague Zgrebec, everyone has a right to their own opinion, but I simply don't understand something about Croatia's insurance. So here in the materials it says that Croatia's insurance has 316 thousand 348 shares totaling 442 million. At the same time, it is said that the value of the property has dropped by 517 million. So now tell me who normally keeps value in shares by books 3 or 4 times less than what the real value of companies is, those more that those shares were traded by 4 times the value on the stock market in the previous months. And in the end, the public offering itself has shown that the bidders have offered far more. The second thing is, it doesn't make sense that the company that's been in the past 10 years, so from the time of the coalition government of the late Ivica Racan, it hasn't won a profit, and with that basis it's had a retained profit of 380 million kuna. Well, wasn't it logical that someone would balance the company before a public tender was opened for sale? Well, that's the elemental thing to do. It's an elemental thing. And now what's happening to us? So someone pays the shares of 7,000 and 140, then capitalizes the company on those same shares, but the stock book records the number of shares times 1400, and the rest of the 600 million puts into some kind of reserve and tomorrow as the majority owner in the Assembly can make a decision to pay for it in some way. So these are the illogicals that happen in this whole business. It's not even a questionable one or that law, it's a purely financial basis for privatisation, and the counselors sure paid him fat. First we gave him a fixed 4000 kuna without GDP. Half a sentence, please. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] And then after that, we gave him another 1.95 percent of the figure we got.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114516	The replica matches the vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114517	So when it comes to privatising a particular company, it's worth as much as it's listed on the stock market, or as much as anyone wants to pay for it. You're talking about assets and stock values. If there was no harmonisation of the assets of an adequate one and if the business audit has also been declared, therefore and that there was, in fact, a reduction in assets, then we do not have full knowledge of what was going on since the State audit did not audit the privatisation process, but only audited the revenues shown in the financing account. But if a company that operates on the market, so which has, its services are marketable, which must be dealt with by strong competition is important for citizens to make this service as cheap as possible, then it doesn't matter if it's state-owned, if the state can't ensure that it's competitive. That's why the government probably decided not to withdraw the profits, too. But in such a competition as today on the insurance market in Croatia, Croatia would be in a position for their market share to only fall, not to grow and possibly expand beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. And if the government has decided that it is more favourable to invest more in capitalisation than to obtain budgetary revenues, it is a political assessment and an assessment that we do not have until the end, because I repeat, the State Audit has not audited the privatisation process, but only the budget revenues shown in the financing account. And that's why I'd be glad to hear something the state auditor says about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114518	The new replica will be presented by the esteemed Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114519	Comrade Zgrebec, you reiterated that Croatia's insurance was not the subject, privatisation was not the subject of an audit. But the fact is that this revision of the implementation of the state budget has become public interest only because of one sentence in which the State audit or auditor has written that it has not been implemented in accordance with the law and a conditional opinion has come. Personally, I think it was politically motivated in a certain way. And I think it is time that here in the Croatian Parliament and the dilemma of the state auditor and needs to be resolved today, because it is also a place where you should directly answer that question. We've already had too much time to discuss something that I personally think was an example of privatisation and an excellent result. After all, what would be said in the media and political life and receive that sentence, because all those serious ones who want to invest in Croatia and operate in this way did not allow that kind of story. Therefore, I also expect that we should hear it from the auditor today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114520	The replica matches the vice president of the House, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114521	So whether it's politically motivated or not, each of us can have an opinion. We may think it's a politically motivated sentence that came into the report, someone else will say it's not. I don't think that's even relevant right now. I would agree with what my colleague Linic and colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt said that we should make a request, we MPs who are authorized to do so for a credible interpretation of a certain article of the Law on Management and Privatisation of State Property and then we will have a clear picture. And the fact is, I will repeat what I said in the presentation on behalf of the club that just as half the revised privatisation of Croatia insurance could, or in the future will bring damage to exactly two successful companies in Croatia. And that's the kind of thing we need to be clean about. And I'm going to say it again for the third time now, I'd like the state auditor to tell us what it is, explain it, and let's get this straight, that we have the same attitude as some other things. The State audit shall give orders and recommendations to be followed. The deputy minister himself said it was precious to them when they received such orders and recommendations. Some can be removed in a short time, for some it takes time, for some to invest, for some to need more educated people to do so. So it is undeniable, and on the other hand there must be no dilemma after we accept such an audit report. And whether there is legality, illegality or not, eventually those who need it will decide because the reports go to the State's Attorney's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114522	The next replica, respected Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114523	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Zgrebec, this strategy is a little strange to which you have resorted in the last few months when some negative connotations appear to power, i.e. the moves that are being drawn by the government or by the government are becoming increasingly noticeable that it is not important that the news is going out or out, or the news is important, is the one that brings the news, or is the messenger of such information, i.e. A messenger like that should be demeaned, or I'll have to tell him not to kill. So we remember when Bild am Sontag presented one piece of information that the government is among the worst in the EU, then all ministers objected to prove it wasn't a good newspaper, so it doesn't mean that they shouldn't read such newspapers because they're not good. So then the other newspaper repeated it, and it wasn't good again. It wasn't a good newspaper again, and it was easy for the news. So we have a situation now that a sentence has come out that bothers everyone and we have the obvious political pressure of a respected representative who rarely speaks here who threatened the minors with a state audit if I get it right. [[Intruder Stazić: Buddy, turn off your phone.]] Please, if you don't almost withdraw that sentence you wrote in the State Audit report because everything you said or wrote down isn't true. So what do we have to fear if everything's clean and neat? Let the privatisation review be carried out, let the State Review establish it, and we'll all be calm, both the state and the one who bought it and the thing solved. And all doubt has been driven away from anyone. But like this, you started to explain a lot. I deeply doubt that something very good is hiding behind it, that something is rolling behind that hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114524	Let's listen to the answer to that replica, Vice President of the House of Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114525	You couldn't have come to the realization from my presentation that I've demeaned anyone. I only said what's a fact. The privatisation review of Croatia's insurance has not been carried out, the audit has not been carried out and it is written in the State Audit Report. Even in an explanation of why the state budget received a conditional opinion is not mentioned privatisation of Croatia's insurance. If the report mentioned and explained the privatisation income from the sale of Croatia insurance, it introduced certain discussions that ended in different ways and could harm not the Government, those more damages to two companies that were part of the privatisation of Croatia's insurance. So, only Croatia's insurance and the company that bought the shares of Croatia's insurance. And it's irresponsible for your colleagues to argue in such a way that you always fight and say that no one is guilty until proven guilty and nothing is illegal until proven illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114526	The hand in the air is not provided for in our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114527	You do not have to wonder at all, Mr. Vice President, because of the public threat made to the State Audit, which has, under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, an independent category, independence and the danger of future work of the State Audit, I am asking a pause on behalf of the HDZ Club for further participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114528	My colleague Zgrebec?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114529	The SDP club is also looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114530	The HNS club? Same reason. Okay. Now, we're gonna set a break, but before we break, we're gonna hear one more replica and a reply to the replica to finish this chapter. Srdjan Gjurkovic, you signed up for the replica. You didn't? Is it? Then take out the replica now and then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114531	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, dear colleagues, I agree with your view that what has been said on the board as well as on the Committee on Fiscal Policy by the State Audit Representatives that this is that this is not the privatisation of Croatia's insurance, clean and clear. What is also true is that one opinion is the State Audit, another opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it is up to us to assess which opinion has a greater basis, or what you said was required to interpret the law. Because someone says the State Audit has the right to interpret it as '92. It was the law that should, and we have a situation, and it often happens to us, that there are other laws and new laws that regulate all these relationships. Therefore, an opinion is an opinion. What is also important is not contained in the reasoning of the conditional opinion given to the Government, such as the fact that the Government has not corrected certain guidelines by the State Audit in certain and certain situations. However, it is also a fact that the list of state assets, that the analysis of all debt and public finances, better said and by the ministries, we stick to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is extremely better and more quality-recorded. And for example, what it says about DUUDI that it's not all recorded, all assets are real, so we didn't have any recorded assets until 2013. And this process will unfortunately take some more time because it's too complicated, but we managed to bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114532	Replication response, Vice President Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114533	So this today's calculations through some of our colleagues' discussions about legality, illegality, we want to accept the report, we won't accept the report, we want to receive it knowledge, etc. It's actually so declassified. If they had read the report from the Finance Committee's session, they would have seen that the report was accepted unanimously, without a position it could not have passed. And it's accepted unanimously. Therefore, no one has any evil intentions towards the State Audit, however, that is what the Government's representative was talking about, and that is what we talked about on behalf of the club. There are no threats to anyone, and if someone is affected by the fact that they could not read a conclusion simply because it is not at the head of a working body, it is his problem. Therefore, my dear colleagues, if you want to be responsible, then discuss responsibly. If you suspect corruption, bribery, there are places where you can report it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114534	Okay. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue at 16.20. Ten-minute stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114535	[[CONTINUE AFTER MEETING IN 16,20 HOURS]] The club that first asked for a break is HDZ, so on behalf of the club, the respected Ivan Shuker will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114536	... Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] So, colleague Dragovan, three or four times when he replicated to Mrs. Zgrebec, repeated that the state's chief auditor should come out and say so. The chief state auditor, even though he wasn't auditing, but did some other people say what he had to say, he said it on the boards, and it's obvious that man simply has no intention of saying anything else from this. However, this was a clear political message to the one who does not understand it is his problem. However, Article 54 shows that the State Audit Office is the highest audit institution of the Republic of Croatia which is independent, independent in its work, the State Audit Office, etc. This made it clear that even with the Constitution, we gave great independence to the state audit for a simple reason not to depend, without the possibility of political pressures, doing all of our work and informing this high house that it could draw certain conclusions. Also, why I say that this has been a particular political threat. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not agree with that opinion of the State Audit Office. So loud and clear. If HDZ didn't want to politicise on this subject, you could read my morning phonogram of my debate and you'd see that I haven't spoken in any word about illegalities, irregularities, but I've only tried to say three figures that are totally illogical. One is that Croatia's insurance has 316 348 shares and that it is worth 442 million 887 thousand. At the same time, the congregation is likely to have a majority decision to cut the value of 517 million. So almost 100 million more than the value of the company. So the company is totally underrated, totally underrated. And now tell me what logic it is that you're going to sell a company whose shares are traded at that point at a value of 5 and another couple of thousand kunas and you're leaving at the balance, and at no time this morning in a debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, I didn't question and question the offer that the bidders made on the basis of the public tender, so at no time. They honestly offered 7 140 kuna per share and they won. However, what is unclear is capitalisation. So you do the capitalization at the value of the 7 140 kuna share, then you put those 122 thousand shares in your stock book at the value of 1 400 kuna, and the remainder of the 6 grand and so many kunas or 600 more and some million kunas in the balance sheet as a reserve and income from the shares. And you as the majority owner with that money can have whatever you want. So, it was a debate of the HDZ Club and we had no idea to call anyone here today. However, my colleagues and colleagues have been in this high house for a long time, and I remember the findings of a state audit that my website didn't like at all, but never, never, ever, ever, will anyone tell us what we are, on this side of the assembly council, ever thought to tell Mrs Krasic to come out and say, go out and say, go out and say. It's never happened in this House. And that's why I asked for a break. Why? Because Mr. Chief State Auditor delivered his opinion this morning. We are discussing here as counterpart Radjenovic will probably come out later and give his views so he will, but in this ultimate way, invite him to come out and say whether it is true or not simply someone is playing with the provisions of the Croatian Constitution, dangerously playing with political pressure on one of the most important institutions of the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, let's not be politically bickering here and take phonograms of what my colleague Dragovan was saying, and what I was saying on behalf of the club. But I repeat privatisation with these illogical amounts is never carried out. Then it would be more logical if the Croatian state had sold 60% of the shares, the people who bought it would have offered it neatly, possibly the same and higher price, became 60% owners and the state of Croatia would have entered the budget 700 million more. This way, 28% of the shares that remain in the Croatian state are worth nothing, they continue to be worth 1 400 per share book. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114537	Thank you. Now we'll hear the views of the SDP club and the respected Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114538	In the SDP club, we still stand at the view that the privatisation of Croatia is one of the best jobs that has been done, and the continuation of work and business shows it. On the other hand, I, as a parliamentary representative, can ask certain questions in this place, here and as a representative and as president of the SDP club, really have the opinion that the opening of the issue of Croatia's insurance in such a way opened a public debate with which, I probably hope, with the determination of all facts and I also expect that the state audit or its main state auditor will say so. He has the right to say it or not, and I have the right to ask him to say it in the Croatian Parliament. If he won't, he won't say I won't twist his arm. Therefore, it is not any pressure this is just one theatre and an attempt to twist facts, and Mr. State Auditor will today manifest himself or not be manifested. And the public will evaluate what is right and what is wrong, as were privatisations and revisions of these same privatisations from the 1990s to today. This will be determined by the Croatian people in the next elections. Therefore, privatisation and privatisation have been, billions and billions have disappeared, for which the SDP is certainly not responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114539	The third club that asked for a break is the HNS club, so we'll hear Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114540	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Shuker, you have started your debate on behalf of the club today on a serious subject and a serious time and do not suffer politics. And just because there are serious topics and serious times and there are certain ambiguities that are open, it is quite logical that in this House of Commons, and not only in the media and in the towers, we are discussing serious topics and that when a topic is opened that legally and legitimate colleague Dragovan considered it to be politics, and perhaps to provoke, it is the right that the main state auditor in the final draws the line anyway, calling on all institutions, of course, that if he thinks something is wrong, it is perfectly normal and it is good to discuss it in this Croatian Assembly. And that's the advantage of this coalition that doesn't put anything under the carpet, under the wallpaper, but wants to put it on the table, discuss it, resolve it openly. The privatisation of Croatia's insurance had no negative connotations until this opinion of the State audit, and it was an international public tender. The goal was to double and charge the budget and strengthen and capitalise Croatia's insurance. It is clearly estimated to be going to the competition to get the most economically favourable offer, not just the cheapest or the best money for the state budget. All institutions always have to and want to do their jobs, and this is a safe place and time where we expect the State Review to be the way it's always done and doing well, and we've always praised it, and today we're talking well, doing great. And to apply all those opinions and guidelines, not only us as a Parliament but also the Government, but all those to whom they relate, especially those audits and efficiency, sure that there would be a lot more efficiency and quality in the work of the public sector. But let's go back to this topic which is why we're asking for a break. So it's good to call on the chief state auditor to bring it right here after these discussions because it does so to the public, but also politically for us, we don't want things to be put under the table, behind the wallpaper, under the wallpaper, so that tomorrow someone can comment on how we wanted to cover it up, that we haven't opened up some subjects in which it clearly writes. So, seriously, and seriously, I agree with you, so let's seriously talk about this and draw some lines on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114541	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the DC club, the New Wave and the National Reformist Party will speak to a respected colleague, Vesna Škara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114542	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let our club take a few of its opinions to this point of the agenda united. There was very little talk here about the low charge of concessions, and we'd like to say something first of all about it. So Croatia's 20 years of conversion and privatisation remained somewhere about 100 million square meters of tourist land and that's what I would say the most valuable part of Croatian property given in the concession, the good part. Why is this bill so slow, so difficult? So, one part of the income we got from renting agricultural land, from the shipping site for the use of maritime goods, but I warn that private companies that use the most attractive part of the land in social property do not pay a regular concession. Who's responsible for putting that charge in order? That's what you'd like to point out first, and that's what the review points to. The other thing is I think point 2. The State Audit report that the establishment and adoption of the planning documents in 2013 and 2014 significantly deviated from the prescribed deadlines, which affected the quality and reality of the financial plans of the budgetary users, i.e. the state budget as a whole. We're in 2015, and we're acting like we're just starting to work with the state right now, and we really don't know how to do it, and if we're looking for other people to respect deadlines, then I don't know why the state when it comes to word and state institutions does. The third thing we wanted to draw attention to is that here are the state auditors who gave a conditional opinion on the implementation of the budget. The report warned of the recurrence of irregularities from earlier years and found that health recovery had not achieved its goals and warned of a marked lower budget deficit than real. They also talked here in a very interesting way about privatising Croatia's insurance because the audit estimated that the decision on privatisation was not to be taken on its own and that it needed the Parliament's consent to do so. Now, the review has delivered an opinion, and we need to absolutely respect that opinion, if we act as a legal state, not to put out harsh words according to the revision because it is absolutely not worth it, but it is obliged to do what I think they are doing. However, they have delivered an opinion, and we can agree with it or we don't have to, and we can pollemize, and I hope that no one can forbid it in this House. And for these very reasons, I would be polluting with this opinion, not because I am opposed to the Parliament having an opinion on the privatisation of any strategic public firm, even if it were, I think that the Parliament should do so, but simply this whole set of circumstances that occurred in this case Croatia's insurance. I'll just remind my colleagues, I think we were certainly half on the days of entrepreneurs when just an example of Croatia's insurance, the privatisation of Croatia's insurance is highlighted as a great example, the best example of privatisation so far. There were people from the government, there were people from the Parliament, and at least half of us were there, and we were all clapping, we all admired how great it was. And now we're discussing it this way. I have to admit it's embarrassing for me. I am embarrassed because I do not know whether I should have clapped or should have questioned it all by thinking and when I read this report, I looked at the Law on the Conversion of the Capital of the Insurance and Reorganisation Society in the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in '92. This law also regulates the conversion of the unnamed capital of the insurance and reinsurance society in the Republic of Croatia. So concepts and conversions and privatisations are often used as synonyms and are equated. I've already said it here once, and now I'm going to say it again, the conversion is about changing the legal status of social enterprises into companies and all companies are in the Republic of Croatia in '91. and '92. years changed that status therefore or to d.d. or in d.o.o. Privatisation is a process of transforming the state into private property, i.e. the sale of state-owned enterprises to private, legal and physical persons. And now here we come to article 9 of this same famous '92 law. the year that says the decision on how to privatise and capital of the Republic of Croatia in society is taken by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And nothing would be questionable to me right now if it weren't for the law of '92. the years, so the Capital Conversion Act. Conversions are gone, all businesses are converted but not all businesses are privatised. Since then, since '92. We've passed several laws on privatisation, several amendments to these laws, we've made a decision on the revision of conversion and privatisation, we've made a strategy for managing state property, we've brought up the Law on State Property and here we are now in 2015 and we're talking about the Law of '92. the years that referred to the conversion. So privatisation of Croatia's insurance has been going on since 2013. This is now 2015. I was looking at the government's pages. They had 32 decisions. There has also been a question raised here in the current hour regarding the privatisation of Croatia's insurance. Now the question arises as if we were all sitting, I don't know in our ears, and we didn't register and react that it was necessary for the government to make a decision about it. But now I'm going to mention something here. If only this '92 law. The year was still relevant and I'm surprised it wasn't lifted and the question arises why we didn't lift it. And the state review here is not to blame, we can't be mad at the state audit because Parliament hasn't abolished the '92 law. He's been following laws 10 or 15 of the law behind him. So this is, uh, respected colleagues and colleagues, our mistake. A mistake and professional services that should have been indicated. However, if this Article 9 of the decision on how to privatise the capital of the Republic of Croatia is also interpreted, it shall be brought to the society by the Parliament. So about the way. Then I'd say, like, 14. Six. In 2013, this Parliament adopted a strategy for the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013-2017. In that strategy, therefore, the Parliament discussed it. In this strategy is the chapter of the company's majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia. And this strategy says, and this strategy we have brought to 61 companies, the share of the Republic of Croatia is 50%. And then it is said of these 61 companies that the Government intends to make 36 of them available or for sale 2 companies are not for any sale or yet and then lists 23 companies that are of particular importance to the Republic of Croatia. And it is said that the society of particular state interest, in accordance with Parliament's decision... of particular interest, there was also a decision by the Parliament on a society of particular interest, is exactly what society is. It started with ACI, HEP, IPK Osijek and Croatia's insurance. The strategy also says on 15.3.2013 the sale is under way in accordance with Article 36. The Law on State Property Management for 3 companies of special interest of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Parliament's decision of 15.12.2010. So at least three times before the strategy discussed Croatia's insurance. And this is not only Croatia's insurance but also Croatia's postal bank and shipbuilding. And as a rule, the majority portfolio is sold through a public procurement model in two circles, the first is to show interest in buying, and the second is to purchase. So if we're going to interpret this article of the 9th famous law of '92. A year, so a '92 human fish. in the year, the decision on how to privatise capital, the decision on how to privatise it is practically covered by this strategy discussed by the Parliament, which companies of strategic interest are going to sell and how it will be sold. So here as far as the State Review and conditional opinion reports are concerned, I don't think we can just go through the fact that the State Audit has stated that the Parliament has not been notified, or that the Parliament's opinion or decision has not been requested. I think that conditional opinion, if it does not refer to Croatia's insurance very badly, leaves a very bad feeling. So I would ask here's the main state auditor to simply, whether this attitude is referred to as State Audit, whether this conditional opinion applies to Croatia's insurance as well. I find it odd that you get a conditional opinion due to a series of failures, and this kind of thing to stay out of that conditional opinion is a little weird. I simply don't know, if I were the State's Attorney of the Republic of Croatia, I would seriously imagine a little over reading that conditional opinion. For these reasons, since the Parliament has a law of '92. the years relating to conversion, I think it should be abolished or simply put out of force because it has completed its task. I personally interpret that the Parliament has made several decisions and discussed the privatisation of Croatia through a strategy it adopted. So this is the famous way the privatisation model works when it comes to Croatia's insurance. But here's if the chief state auditor simply puts out this position and says that the conditional opinion also covered this situation with Croatia's insurance, covered in a conditional opinion, I think we should reach a conclusion that would require an authentic interpretation of this '92 conversion law. A year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114543	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the Honorable Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I have listened carefully to your presentations, and I agree with him, except in one detail, that's what I'm going to talk about. And in this replica, I was offered the feeling that I once felt that I understood you as a colleague, as a lawyer, and some things might sometimes have to be said in simpler language as well as those who did not our professions would understand that. So in 2010, we brought in the same session of the same day of the State Property Management Act. On that day we also made a decision on companies of special interest to the Republic of Croatia, one of which companies is Croatia's insurance d.d. In 2013, we discussed the State Property Management Strategy. Croatia's State Property Management Strategy mentions insurance 11 times. Among other things, the State Property Management Strategy defines the way in which the assets or shares of the Republic of Croatia will be held in Croatia's insurance. It also says: privatisation of Croatia's insurance will be implemented under the provisions of the 2010 Law on governance and availability of state property. After that, a few weeks later we adopt the Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia which confirms and leaves the strategy in place and all its provisions. So, the law once again confirmed that the privatisation of Croatia's insurance will not be subject to the new law, but the old one by which it began. This defines the way in which Croatia is privatised in accordance with Article 9. The '92 law. A year. Where do I disagree with you? I don't think you need anything authentic to interpret because it's the law of '92. It's perfectly clear to me, and he doesn't leave any doubt. And the second where I disagree with you is that this law should not be abolished because it fulfils its purpose that has been translated into these later laws. He fulfilled his purpose through the implementation of the conversion and after we adopted a strategy that defined the way Croatia's insurance was sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114545	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114546	Dear colleague, you and I both like to speak in fact, and it's good to have, to hear it in the Parliament and in that way of thinking. However, you must also convince the State Audit, which is based solely on the '92 law. the year, not the laws of the State Property Management Strategy. That's what I'm talking about. 99% of the '92 law. The year refers to conversion, not privatisation. Thus, the law has fulfilled its purpose. And it's completely insane that today 2015 we rely on and base our views and draw some attitudes and laws from '92. years like it was completely insane that we had laws from '79. We had him here for the debate in 2015. And that's why I think that law should be put out of force.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114547	A new replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114548	It's nice to listen when lawyers get along like this, but the Budget Law has defined what the revision should do in the State Budget Implementation Report. So, an audit of income and expenditure. Because the State Audit was doing an audit of the revenue item of 900 and some million more, not a review of the privatisation of Croatia's insurance. That's a big difference. And that's what you're all after. That's what the state auditor said on the Finance Committee, explicit. Therefore, it is not the audit, privatisation of Croatia's insurance, but the revision of the most significant revenue in the state budget, which is the revenue from privatisation. And they're just finding facts in there. And I'm glad to hear that there aren't any laws to be abolished, it was claimed, even when the State Inspectorate was abolished. And then a year after that, we abolished certain laws that defined who carried out certain controls. We've changed them. So now one of the freshest examples of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest says that an official can lead two associations, and then politics remembers and remembers some law of general, the Law on Sports and says and calls for the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. But that doesn't apply. This is the only way it works. It's another thing. When I debated on behalf of the club, I didn't question the buyer, though. I respect the public tender, not the laws, but the illogical nature of certain value data as regards businesses, considering that the government had to coordinate this before the privatisation process. And I think that's a key problem. This is all the other legal games and pranks could've been like this, could've been the legal interpretation I'm not going to get into. But I repeat, just one sentence please. The main state auditor was on the Committee on Finance, on the parent board said we were not reviewing the privatisation of Croatia's insurance, but reviewing the most important revenue items as it occurred. Therefore, you have the conclusion of the club...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114549	Replication response, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114550	Well, dear colleague Shuker, I haven't spoken in the review of the privatisation of Croatia's insurance, I haven't mentioned it in a single word. In the review, if this conclusion is adopted, it will only go away. I only interpreted the state auditor, i.e. the State Audit Report, which says it was not requested during the sale of Croatia's insurance insurance, was not requested by the Parliament's opinion and was not followed by the Law on Conversion from '92. A year. That's all I've been quoting, and I've done my whole way of thinking out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114551	The last replica, the esteemed vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114552	Comrade Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, you say you're worried about conditional opinion. Of course, after 20 years of audit findings and when most of the audited entities get still conditional opinions should be imagined and seen how much further it is necessary to do on the education of people who are specifically working on these jobs that they can warn if something is wrong, if some political decisions are made and not on the legal basis, based on the law. The government here also says that it has received previous opinions from the Office for Law, etc. etc. We were on the same track, and I was talking about the decision that we were making the strategy, that it was said here that Croatia is in privatisation insurance and two other companies. I even quoted from my own strategy that decision. At the end of the line, it is possible to say that the Parliament was familiar at least some formalised decision on the sale of Croatia's insurance did not take place. I even told the Committee on Finance, so do you doubt that the government came with a decision on the privatisation of any company in the Croatian Parliament that most would not make, supported such a decision. Well, it's probably, you know, maybe there's something that might have been discussed, maybe changed in that decision, but that's how it would have been. But that's exactly why you're asking if that's why we got a conditional opinion? It's not. And the main state auditor, when he explained it here, did not cite privatisation, i.e. reviewing privatisation revenues, that it affected conditional opinion. And it is precisely because it is mentioned in the report itself that it is a little confusing and therefore it is good that as it explained to us on the Committee on Finance reasons, that is, the way the audit was done to tell us that here in the Croatian Parliament. It's not a threat or anything, it's a request to get complete information.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114553	Replication response, Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114554	Comrade Zgrebec, we are now discussing here in the Parliament, we are going to make the decisions that we are going to make, and everyone is going to vote on their own. That report will go out of this house. He'll come to the State's Attorney's Office. Believe me, if I were a state lawyer, I would seriously read this report no matter what it is part of a conditional opinion, which is not part of a conditional opinion. And if the State Audit inside me explicitly writes that it was not followed by the Law of Conversion of '92. the year that no Assembly of the Republic of Croatia has been consulted and does not say that there were a number of other laws, including the Law on State Property Management and the State Property Management Strategy and the State Property Management Plan and the Decision on the Management of the State Property Plan, then I would take business seriously as a state lawyer. So, we've brought the credibility of the Parliament into question here, we've questioned credibility and whoever bought Croatia's insurance, we've brought in total delusions and citizens who wonder what this is all about, and I really think it's a good time to put points on the '92 Law too. and clearly formulate and accurately specify what is actually part of the conditional opinion, and which is not part of the conditional opinion. I repeat, if you leave this '92 law. Then what about all these laws on which the privatisation of Croatia's insurance was based? I mean, that's a serious question now. It's a condition for a contract to be terminated, and you know what it means to end a contract, to return everything that's been received.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114555	Time. Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected colleague, Srdjan Gjurkovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114556	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Chief State Auditor with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, on the privatisation of Croatia's insurance, we will hear the opinion and the main state auditor, I believe in in the end, and then we will not bring any further questions and questions. And I would turn on behalf of the club and return to the State budget for 2014. As both the introduction and the debates have clearly defined how the revenues were 114.7 billion, or 0.2% higher than planned or 5.4% higher than in 2013, the expenditures of 130 billion, which means that, in essence, we have succeeded, i.e. expenditures are less than 2% of the plan. Which means we've been able to spend less, and that's what you can see from the items listed on the spending side. What's being discussed and that's the methodology I've been discussing, and now I'm going to discuss it again on behalf of the club, and that's the definition of basically the correct amount of deficit. The national methodology in the national budget is the methodology used and to be used. It clearly only shows the revenues of the state budget's cash and expenditure. We then had application methodologies from the IMF, so we had a methodology of 1095 ESO and we moved from last year to ESO 2010, which is universal to EUROSTAT in the EU. The ESO methodology defines the deficit differently both for us and for others, including that it excludes certain revenues more related to the way and structure of these revenues, but of course it does not deny what the national methodology indicates, which is that the funds have also come to the Treasury and are based on the budget. In 2010, the ESO also defines public debt in a way that has not been defined so far by public debt. That is why I am an increase in public debt of 85%, a public debt that goes towards 90%, which is of course more than 60% by... and more than what we want is the same thing that has grown in the largest part by including both HRT and Croatian railways and highways of Rijeka-Zagreb and HBOR in public debt. We are all aware, here in the Croatian Parliament, that the debts of both HRT and HZ and the Highways of Rijeka-Zagreb and HBOR and the favourable means used by HBOR are debts that existed before this ESO methodology was applied in the calculation of public debt. But she didn't sign up, she didn't express herself this way, she didn't add up, and now she's adding up. And that's why it's very plastic to tell me the increase of 26 or 29 billion kunas in public debt is just because the debt of the Croatian highways has been placed into public debt by the Republic of Croatia and it has not been counted that way before. Also 16 billion kunas of HBOR liabilities to other credit institutions are now in public debt to the Republic of Croatia. 9% is when we talk about Croatian GDP highways, 4.4% of GDP participation in public debt is HBOR, it is almost 15% and therefore the public debt has jumped rapidly. What's important is when we talk about the budget and deficit and what I haven't heard in the previous discussions, which is the primary deficit, someone just mentioned it, colleague Zgrebec. Therefore, the primary deficit which essentially defines the impact of the current economic policy on the economy, i.e. the budget per national interest-free model. It currently stands at around 0.7% of GDP for 2014. Last year, it was 1.8, pre-experienced in 2012. 2,4, 2011. 4.8, 2010. 3.7. This essentially shows the rationality of how the state budget is used by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Cost reduction and I believe that this year, the primary deficit could at least be at 0 means no interest in spending on all the reforms that work and which are needed and the savings that are being done. And that's one of the essential data that would essentially give us all this restructuring that said not to be implemented essentially shows that savings and restructuring exist within the state budget or users of the state budget because the costs are shrinking and the other is the problem that we have both this and last year 10.4 billion interest obligations. What we have this year's interest obligations and what is essentially the only economic development, growth of gross products and employment we can increase both the income side and the growth of gross products, the income side of the budget itself. And referring to the primary deficit, and yet it is seen that restructuring through better and more efficient and lower costs, more quality work. We come to that important thing that last year we had a drop in employment and this year in the third month we have among the highest employment growth in the EU over 2%. These are indicators with indicators of industrial growth, along with export indicators, that the 2014 budget also opened a space for repairing the economy and employment and that all the measures used this 2014 budget had results and that these results were well seen this year. The same by retaining all social rights, retaining all the rights of pensioners directly from the budget going 16 billion in order to ensure that the status that pensions have and deserve even though they are small but cannot go below but have to grow and make our decisions, the government's decisions are growing and they are harmonising. And then when we discuss this budget from 2014 and the effects on the state of society, the situation in the economy and the current state and numbers that we get from the State Statistics Institute or EUROSTAT we see that this budget has also brought about effects in this year that the economy and exports are growing, etc. About the deficit other than, of course, an important primary deficit that indicates how the funds are available, we have very many operational deficits, both structural and cyclical and corrected, which in various ways describe what and how the funds are used, or how that deficit affects the economy. But what's crucial is both the same methodology is completely correct, which is necessary and necessary. One European that we compare ourselves with other countries and that we accept this standard by entering the EU and accepting EUROSTAT methodologies that are changing continuously and the other one that clearly shows us the entry, the output, and this primary deficit that essentially points out in the way that budget funds are used within the country, that what matters is it is shrinking, and that is the indicator that unlike many who say that nothing is happening clearly shows that we are these three years reducing the deficit towards a zero, the primary deficit that is essentially rationalisation in a good, good course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114557	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114558	Dear colleague Gjurkovic, I believe you said that by accident, but I must remind you, and you said that pensions are increasing by government decisions. This was last done in 1994 to 1998 when many tens of billions of debts to pensioners were included. It is therefore correct to claim that pensions are in line with the Pension Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114559	Thank you, too. No response to the replica. We have completed the debate by representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. We are going to an individual debate of representatives for 10 minutes and a respected colleague, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114560	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's something I want to say about the 2014 State Budget. In the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens do not live any bright moment as the current government is trying to suggest through controlled media. The Republic of Croatia and citizens are simply trapped in the incompetence of the Kukuriku government and most in the Croatian Parliament to implement any measure that is more difficult, more comprehensive than the populist moves of daily character. For such claims, there are a number of arguments and evidence, and one was certainly carried out in 2014. Since for 4 years it was obviously spent in vain, as the election time is getting closer to the government, the president, ministers simply rush to show their successes, some minimal shifts as a miracle of their abilities, and all the fundamental economic problems that plague citizens and the state itself remain unresolved. Simply underestimating these same problems will be felt by any future government that will come. What are these problems and what is it that bothers the state? Credit rating, garbage, simple 2012. The second problem is uncontrolled public debt growth. In 2011, it amounted to 154 billion kuna in March 2015. 288 billion kuna. Third problem, perhaps the biggest, unprepared for reforms. From 2012 to 2015, we only witness the attempts the government tried to make, but each time she gave up either under pressure from the referendum or from her own incompetence and even possibly because she had no courage underestimating that they preferred the chair to the economic collapse of the country itself. And the 4th problem that has been very current in the last few months is political populism, but it's going through the entire time of the government's mandate, probably that's how it's going to be until the election. It became the main tool in the functioning of the government in the election year. How do these fundamental problems reflect on the budget itself carried out in 2014? The credit rating, the garbage, obviously did not create a problem, owed itself cheaper regardless of the fact, were reprogrammed debts cheaper than in 2011. How long will it take, it's a question. Obviously, we have problems in some other countries that can have a profound impact on that time to be brief or to happen within a few months. However, this certainly cannot be an excuse to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that by its inaction it has achieved nothing, not a single level more than what we welcomed in 2012. We see an uncontrollable public debt through the very deficit of the budget, it is 18 billion kuna as stated here today because this money is obviously really spent and it didn't have to lead to big debates, we simply don't pay back the debts, we reprogram them and leave them for some other time. We have a government that in four years is more in debt than all governments in the past 20. Unpreparedness for reforms, along with strong announcements that the state will spend rationally saving, implement reforms. It is true that in 2011, we ended up with the expenditures of the state budget of 119 billion and 939 million kuna. The expenditures of 2014 amount to 127 billion 546 million kuna. Saving, and spending more is something that doesn't even work in the home budget, regardless of the reasons. We spend so much less, we just spent over 7.5 billion. It's that famous story that's more like it. How's the rationalization going, say, public administration? Here we hear these days, the government will rationalize the public administration in a way that will further employ the new 1480 civil servants. Such stories do not contribute to the overall solution to the problem that plagues us. And of course all of that would justify there's populism. Today, the government uses it to explain its perhaps not work and ignorance because it still sounds better when you say the deficit is 12, not the actual 18 billion kuna. As far as the budget is concerned, I'll only look back at two ministries. One is the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, which had 608 million kuna available in 2014. realized the entire 486 million kuna or only 80%. For comparison, the 2012 ministry had a billion and 115 million kuna, and we burned to the realization of 486. So at a time when we have entered the EU when the funds give us opportunities, the Ministry of European Funds simply can't contribute to any work, knowledge that we spend and develop rural space, to realize projects, there's just been some kind of momentum that just makes projects fall apart. When I mention that we've never spent less than 80 million kuna on islands than the last 250, it's clear what's going on, there's no movement. Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship 640 in division, 320 achieved. It's the loudest ministry in any advertising, and the ability to do anything. 50% achievement, embarrassing. I won't talk about the Ministry of Maritime and Infrastructure, about the state of Jadrolinia, about HZ, about problems or failed monetization, expensively paid consultants, it's simply populism through the media already explained to the citizens, and they say, no matter what, gentlemen, you're not telling the truth. And what's bothering the citizens? On this, the ruling and not even the deputy minister today found nothing to say. 322 thousand 329 blocked, end of 4 months 2015, 32 billion 810 million kuna. Compared to April 2012, when 211 000 were blocked and 13 billion in debt, 620 million kuna. It means that the government's 3 years reach of 111 thousand citizens is more blocked, besides the failed write-off model and the amount of debt increased by 19.2 billion kuna. These are citizens who are difficult or not working at all and then we can multiply every one blocked in the family by 2, 3 and 4 so you will come to us that a quarter of the population is difficult or cannot contribute to local development or to the state budget at all. Today, the unemployed have 261 thousand 219, and according to formal legal regulations, it has been erased that Minister Mrsic himself has not kept secret in the last year about 40,000 unemployed from the record. When the number of people left the Republic of Croatia is added in the last two years, which is estimated at about 100 thousand, we can clearly say that the famous promise of the Kukurik coalition from the pre-election campaign has not been fulfilled and we are not exporting ideas rather than Croatian youth. Today this promise could certainly be said, we export Croatian youth and we simply have no ideas. As for people burdened with loans, especially RBA savings and loans in francs, there is simply and several months after freezing the course there is no solution. The government promised to settle this within a short period of three months, frozen its course for a year, but apparently, given the ongoing negotiations and the problem, it will be possible to welcome new authorities. The RBAs no longer want to talk about their savings, although Mr. Lalovec, the minister and he promised to solve it, or at least to the people who suffer from these problems and the houses go to work daily, he simply did nothing to them. And in the end, I will end up with a famous promise to the Kukurik coalition from the campaign in plus three salaries, not minus to pay us. I think, gentlemen, that a large number of Croatian citizens live in a great minus and the state seems to be in the largest. As for the very findings of the revision, I will only have one small remark or suggestion, I hope that most in the Croatian Parliament will not resort to the solution offered once by the Mayor of the City of Rijeka, Mr Obersnel, who also received one conditional opinion on the findings of the audit and then he said I am also giving a conditional opinion. Well, I hope, gentlemen, when you vote you won't, too, given your discussions today, give this review report a conditional opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114561	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have replicas. Orderly, the esteemed representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114562	Comrade Boric, you have begun your debate about how this government is only doing populist measures, as it deals only with populism. And otherwise, populism was the most common word in your debate. I don't know what you think of as populism, but if populistism is GDP growth, industrial production growth is the first time in six years, employment growth we have, unemployment decline, growth in tourism, increase in the tourism economy in general, increase in overnightness, export growth, then this government is populist. If it's you, but I know it's not populism. Therefore, these trends that we started last year continue this year and may have continued, so all that I have said and the growth of exports and industrial production and GDP growth and employment growth, the reduction of unemployment, even if you call it pulsism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114563	Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114564	Thank you very much. A colleague Jelusic, perhaps you of this population simply because you are constantly using him you are not even aware anymore, but he is really there and he is being used daily and it is visible in the Croatian Parliament, but especially in the media that clearly dissipate everything that does not fit the Croatian authorities and publish only what works for them. That's why I mentioned what bothers Croatian citizens. But that's where you made a big promise when you ran your election campaign, and it said, high unemployment to replace it with high GDP, if you remember, I don't have to remind you all the time. So here's that high GDP of 0.1% is growth and we support it and let it grow, we're not against it, gentlemen dear, but the fact is that you promised one thing and the other came true. And in the election year, it is precisely the pulsism that tries to bring everything out somehow and convince Croatian citizens that they really live better than they think or feel themselves, and we have seen it in one of the mandates where you were when it was also current in the period until 2004. I always note that home budget mathematics is something we learned from Germany and that every citizen, looking at his home budget, can assess whether this government has achieved what she has promised him or not. If she did, she'd probably give her her voice. If he has more than he had in 2011, he'll reward it, if he's not and I'm moving amongst the citizens and I know what they're telling me and he's not, and that's what I've been doing, then it's likely that they won't reward him, no matter how much you've raised him in heaven. I don't think you should fly that high because upstairs you're just bothering the birds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114565	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114566	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, my colleague, Boric, I'm actually my replica, and you won't believe it, you could have designed it before you debated it. In fact, I knew exactly that all of your debates would come down to attacks on the government, so that would be one verbal attack and disdaining the results achieved. And the attack is, as we know, the best defense. So you actually want these attacks to make the citizens forget how you did both your government and what consequences remain behind your work. So you were punished about 3.5 years ago for how you worked, but unfortunately, the consequences of your work will still be very, very long in this country. So even now that this government is raising a submerged ship, we've defused it from the bottom and we're raising it at certain risks, of course, but with completely indisputable indicators, you're now making every effort to actually degrade our every effort and our every achievement. And then you call us out because there is no among Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs optimism. You're actually the ones who are reducing every attempt to create some kind of optimism, you're just rooting for it to get worse. You're sorry when something's good, because you're actually the best at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114567	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114568	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash, as we lost in 2011, and one of your governments lost the election just like that in 2004. There's no big reason. The citizens gave you a chance to correct exactly what you thought was wrong and to be better than what you are, what you yourself say here was bad. However, you have repeated the same and made worse mistakes. If you're aware of that, you're probably not because you came in to say the pulsism phase where it's hard to recognize. But citizens who watch us every day, who watch what we do, think something else. And you don't need to think about what or how we do. We all know what the task of the opposition is when it's an opposition. Its task is to criticise the government, offer solutions and prepare for four years to come to power. And the task is for the authorities to implement their programme and show the programme with their goals achieved when the mandate is completed and to give it to citizens to evaluate it. These are the tasks of the government and the opposition as I think about them. How we're going to do that's our job. I didn't tell a single lie here. These are the data I pulled out and that are public and available. The fact that we are telling the truth and you are experiencing it as something bad or pessimism is the state of Croatian society, and that society has come to you in such a state and with your policy over the past four years, and it is likely that this doubt will be resolved in the elections. And we'll see when the citizens get their five minutes to sit at that table, take their ballot and circle who they want you to see that it's for you, that it's going to be for you to get out of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114569	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of Parliament, Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114570	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow Boric, I was encouraged by what you said in one sentence, one actually opposite, which is to save, and to spend more. That actually applies to one aspect of what we're talking about, which is the state of health and health funding. Two years ago, she began the rehabilitation of health care, began with the shift of all the previous directors and by setting up a party criterion for the resolution managers. Then I said here from this place that unfortunately these people were put in the same position as they had before, because since no structural reform was made they would find themselves in a difficult position again in a few months. And what really happened? Although all of us and Croatian citizens for the recovery in 2013 and on the fourteenth, whether we believe or not 6 and a half billion kuna, in spite of this 2014, it ended with an unsettled achievement, I am stressing the accomplished commitments of nearly 1.9 billion kuna, and this 6 months this year, about another billion kuna. So we have a situation that nearly 3 billion kunas have created new achievements, I repeat the commitments made. Nothing has been resolved and there is no solution or proposal at all, nor is it seen from the budget how this will be resolved. Hospitals create new ones every day, spending is huge, it is likely to increase because those who lead them are aware that now that they are paid 300 days in the best hospitals up to 1000 days that these debts will be paid by the next government anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114571	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114572	Thank you very much. Comrade Reiner, what you're saying now falls within the fundamental problem of our country that I've been talking about, which is the state's unpreparedness to reform. They announced something of these reforms, so the first minister left, so he was removed. Now the second minister has arrived and the only reform that is visible is the exit of HZZO from the system I say to the Treasury in a way that they have their own resources. And now it threatens what you say the daily debt that is created. He's already reaching large amounts, probably thinking there and what we're going to do now. While we were in the Treasury, somehow that could've been reconciled. The health care provided to Croatian citizens is getting worse. However, they remembered to sign a petition for a new health care system and a new law they wanted to pass. However, these days have obviously given up on petitions, but also on how I am reading today Minister Varga of my own law. For example, in my Primorje-Gorski County, he received a negative opinion from his SDP mayor and most of the SDPs in the county who did not accept such a solution as he wanted to impose because everyone knows it would be negative for Croatian citizens. And then there could somehow be that famous saying that they also promised a better long life than life on debt. Unfortunately, for the sake of health care, we should live as long and more or more years, but it seems that this life simply drives us in a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114573	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114574	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Boris, your sentence mentioning a significant reduction in investment in the Croatian islands encouraged me to replicate it for you. In fact, we worked together at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and I remember very well that at the position of the Ministry alone and at the position of the Department of Islands, about 250 million kunas were allocated annually for the construction of municipal and social infrastructure on Croatian islands. That numerous ports of local importance were built at the time, that numerous facilities of social infrastructure, schools, kindergartens, halls, health homes etc., etc., numerous municipal infrastructure facilities, wastewater disposal systems, water supply systems etc., etc. When this government came and the expenditure of the state budget was to be cut, islands were among the first and with 250 million kunas now in that part of the same ministry is about 80 million kuna. They might accept that because we are aware that we islanders too need to share the fate of the entire Croatia, but something that prompted me and why I replicated it is the fact that, while we were together in the ministry, we designed a project called EIB3 with a loan from the European Investment Bank, which meant about 50m euros in investment in Croatian islands. For these 50m euros, allocated funds were on all Croatian islands. When this government came, it abolished EIB3 for reasons that it would be good for the island units of local self-government to learn to apply funds from European funds without learning to spend credits paid for by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, we would also accept that after that, the Government did not take a new EIB3 credit project for which, listen, there is no purpose and we do not know what 50 million euros will be invested in, why a loan was raised before the European Investment Bank, while at the same time the EIB3 credit which was intended for the island's economic development and I already say the funds that were focused on the exact locations...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114575	A colleague of Bacic's. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114576	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bacic, that's the same thing I'm saying is one of the relationships. I have always seen the Ministry of Regional Development as one of the most potent ministries that must be the leader of good things and good rural and regional development of the Republic of Croatia, but almost every year almost to return to the state budget than they have spent. So we're falling from a billion and 6 million kuna in 2012 to 480 million kuna in 2014 and we keep warning about it, and it's happening because obviously it's not working properly. No project has been designed for the Croatian islands in 4 years except for ghettoisation through the issue of island car and citizen IDs, so now we have to apply especially nicely every day when we travel. They take a special picture of us while everyone else travels, they come, they say I have, give me a ticket and you get a ticket. We've been waiting a few minutes to get us into the system. It cost several million kunas. The EIB3 was a good thing because it meant that it could be used both as a share of the state and as a share of local self-government in the part of co-financing of European projects and allowed it. He had good interest, he had good conditions and he was running. But what happened? On the board when we discussed this document came a gentleman from regional development and we hear all the time that EIB3 has been abolished. I ask him, sir, if it's been lifted, he tells me it's not, it goes on. Here's the state we live in that one minister says it's been abolished, his deputy says it's been suspended, a ministry employee comes in who I don't know what level it is, he says it's not lifted and it goes on. And in a part like that, we don't even know what's going on anymore, let alone any results of what's going on. And of course, when you don't know what you're going to say that they were bad there before, and we remember in 2008 we had 480 million kunas on the island and on the coast, as much as the entire Regional Development Ministry had in 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114577	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114578	Thank you very much. Dear Boris, is anyone else in Croatia remembering the clean start, is anyone using it, no, but it's paid. Outsourcing? Is anyone talking about him as a major structural reform to reduce the expenditure side of the budget? No, I don't. Privatisation of the Croatian Post Bank, no more but paid consultants. The famous monetization of highways, paid consultants nothing. However, this privatisation consultant Croatia's insurance is very interesting. So the shares before the privatisation process were sold between 6300 and 7100 kuna, and the consultant says the value of the stock is 3925, but it's a very interesting contract with it. He says give me a fixed 4 million and 50 grand plus VAT, and, unlike the price, give me another 1.95% that's being achieved. Now, the logical thing is that people who had a serious and ultimately showed all their shops afterwards, the intent to buy Croatia security knew at the time what the price was and offered to say a fair market price of 7140 and paid so much for Croatia's insurance. But with that foundation, our consultant received 22 million kunas. Very, very interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114579	Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114580	Mr. Shuker, talking to consultants is an interesting story that passes a whole term. You can start the procedure, determine the amounts in the state budget for these consultants and no one guarantees that this procedure should be completed i.e. that it can end successfully but the money is paid anyway. It's a very beautiful, sophisticated story that can be anything. Who's checking it out? Obviously the DORH isn't interested in it. I remember what happened with some other state officials in our day, now no one's gonna ask the monetization consultant and why you took six or seven million kunas to pay him off. Well, your project has failed. Why did you take HPB for so many and so many million kunas and pay for it for two years, and that project has failed in privatisation. Will someone be interested in these things? Is that allowed in an orderly state? Is it allowed? Obviously it is. You take nothing from anyone, nobody answers for anything. Well, we also had a consultant for a concession contract for Zagreb Airport, so we saw what's going on, the law is being amended to retroactively pay a fee to someone who has entered the property, in a concession of property. I rent your place, your restaurant, and you still pay me what I'm in your rental. Well, that's a great story. And nobody checks it out. And of course we come to people seeing it, that people just don't want that kind of injustice and that it's become something that works normally. And what do we have to be surprised about today when we are suggested that you with your conclusion, we will not accept it when we talk about the privatisation of Croatia's insurance. The National Committee for the Monitoring of Corruption in the Republic of Croatia has heard it is not the working body of the Croatian Parliament. The question is whether or not I want to go after him anymore. Because what do I do there if we're not the body of the Parliament, when we don't have any rights other than to listen to someone bring me their action plan and I have to nod my head so, well, here's what you're doing. And we see what's going on on the side, and when we warn that, and we're looking for a legality check, then you're making something up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114581	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate for 10 minutes. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114582	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We entered practically the second half of the financial and calendar year 2015, so I will, with a commentary on the 2014 budget, look back at the developments in the first half of 2015. Therefore, although 2014 is characterised by still negative macroeconomic developments, it should be said that they are still much weaker in intensity than they were in earlier years. For example, GDP remained in the negative growth zone of 0.4%, but this negative growth was half a percentage point lighter than in 2013. Of course, the lack of economic growth has adversely affected the trend in employment. In fact, one of Croatia's biggest structural problems is too few employees. Therefore, the level of economic activity of the working-age population in Croatia is over 10 percentage points lower than in EU countries. So we have him somewhere at 52%, in the EU he is 63%. However, what is good is that in 2014 the average number of registered unemployed were 5% lower than in 2013. Increasing employment and reducing unemployment are the biggest challenge for every government and, of course, this current one. It's actually an argument where you either win or lose the election. Some other indicators in 2014 were promising. Therefore, exports of goods and services registered a growth of 6.3% and a positive balance of current balance of 286m euros and 0.7% of GDP, respectively. So, all of these positive developments in 2014 were a certain hint so that we could say from this position today that in fact in 2014 it was the last recession year. So, the last year of a 6-year-old recession. In fact, in the last quarter of 2014, an economic growth of 0.3% was achieved and 0.5% in the first quarter of 2015. The World Bank, as we know, forecasts a growth of 0.5% throughout 2015. I want to believe he'll be taller. And for 2016, there's a bank forecast growth of 1.2%. There are also positive indicators from the real economy, for example, traffic in trade has been growing slightly for 6 months in a row, which means that the consumption of Croatian citizens is growing largely thanks to changes to the Income Tax Act, which has increased personal deductions, so net wages have also increased from that title. Industrial production increased by 4.4% in May 2015, and that is actually the most qualitative thing I would say is proof of economic recovery because industry is the industry that is the industry that opens up the most jobs and which produces the most goods for export and we see that actually exports contribute most, gives the greatest incentive to say, so to say, the growth of domestic gross product. Croatia is therefore recovering, coming out of the crisis. The truth slowly and with certain risks we must say. Certainly the biggest potential risk is the price of capital. Why? Because Croatia is unfortunately a highly-indebted country, so the total public debt was at the end of 2014 of 46.7 billion euros and was higher than that year's gross domestic product was achieved. Therefore, the entire Croatian economy should practically work for a whole business year to cover the creditors of the debt. Compared to 2013, the public debt has been increased by more than 750m euros, with the fact that we have to say, we are still in debt at a very low acceptable rate, so let's say the interest is due to a large supply of capital on the world market and is available and relatively cheap. However, the question arises as to what, when it goes into the EU and beyond, in a way, one strong economic momentum, one stronger economic growth, and when, in accordance with the laws of supply and demand, the rise in capital prices? Thus, it can produce huge problems in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia due to an increase in expenditure from the title of interest. Thus, interest increases the budget deficit and the deficit increases credit risk and public debt. And it's actually a vicious circle. The high public debt is certainly our biggest potential threat he is, as I have already said today, literally the Damokl sword over Croatia. In 2014 the expenditure on interest increased from 2013 to 652 million kuna and reached an amount of more than 10 billion kuna. and that is why the government's efforts to reduce public debt and logical and rational and necessary, whether through monetisation, or through capitalisation of state property, are, of course, not of strategic or national interest, which is not crucial to Croatia's future. The government's greatest attention in the past 2014 given the fact that Croatia is in the excessive deficit procedure, was focused precisely on reducing the budget deficit, while at the same time trying to really maintain the appropriate level of social protection of citizens, the colleague Gjurkovic spoke of it. Therefore, in order to achieve savings, government and public officials' salaries were reduced, material expenditure was reduced, subsidies in the public sector were reduced, and thanks to these measures at the end of 2014 the total budget deficit of the consolidated general government was 13 billion kuna or 4.1% of GDP, which is 3 billion kuna or 0.9% points less than the planned deficit. So to conclude, in one word, as Galileo Galileo would say, "epur yourself flies" and yet that fact should foster optimism both among citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs, so it should encourage them to invest because there is capital in Croatia, so there are more than 200 billion deposits in banks at the moment. Therefore, investment should contribute both to the growth of the economy and job creation and, above all, to our young citizens. So the initial results this government has achieved are visible, they exist, they are evident, we need co-operation or support from our citizens and certainly our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114583	Thank you very much. We are continuing the debate, dear colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114584	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates, Your Honor, Mr. Chief State Auditor. Well, during this morning's debate, and also in the replicas, I said part of what I now intended to say in my individual discussion. First of all, I must say that I share the opinion of at least the representatives of HDZ that after hearing the reports from the Deputy Minister, after reading the position of the Assembly Working Body, after hearing the State Office's review report, after reading the IMF's opinion or the Commission's fiscal rules, it is not clear to me that tomorrow, if we decide on this agenda point, we will accept the fact that the deficit of the state budget is 4.1% of GDP, or that is some other rate or percentage of GDP that the Ministry of Finance claims to be those institutions that both and the disputed deficit of the state budget is challenging. In fact, according to the State Audit Office's findings, and according to the opinions of the institutions mentioned earlier, it is concluded that the expenditures of the state budget did not include all those expenditures that were to be included in the 2014 State budget report, and that they were therefore not accurate and that we, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, should, when raising our hands on the 2014 State Budget Report, be 100% sure of what this is all about. In fact, we are already two years of EU member states and I believe that the rules are more than a year-on-year, almost half of the country's Republic of Croatia in the excessive deficit process so that we should respect very much the parameters, standards that are prescribed at EU level, which are then not in favour of the position and the report proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal from the Ministry of Finance to the Croatian Parliament and that it should take due account. I find it interesting to explain the Deputy Minister of Finance when he speaks to our remarks, so what we're doing is you've been doing in 2011 and so when such parameters are being taken into account and the standards in view of you were deficits in 2011 over 25 billion kuna, and then it gives us the right to display and use international financial standards in the same way, and then we can show the deficit of the state budget less than it really is. It's unacceptable for me. If there was a mistake in 2011, if there was, and I think Mr. Shucker as long-time finance minister gave his position on it, but I repeat, if it was and it does not give this government the right to then, in his report on the implementation of the state budget, call for 2011 claiming that then this government has the right to do the same. However, that was the case, and this has already been said clearly by the Government, without being discussed, remains in its position, regardless of what relevant institutions and independent authorities in the Republic of Croatia have taken different views and claim that the Government is wrong. But in the rest of my presentation, I would refer to two topics in which the government has changed its position over the past 3.5 years, confirming that I do not know whether it is Gundulic or Preradovic's that "permanent in this world is only a change" that changes attitudes when it comes to very important revenues in the state budget and projects that this government has kept in its priorities. First, let's remember the relationship to the contribution to health insurance, and when they assured us that 15% was high, we had to change the rate to 13%, and then it was returned to 15% with the same arguments that that rate was not worth before they changed it. This was also the case with VAT in tourism, a decrease in the rate to 10%, and all those arguments that led the government to reduce the rate to 10%. Now they're no longer worth it, and now the good ones are the arguments when that VAT in tourism was 13%. So, this one constant government in changing attitudes and in convincing us MPs is quite, very interesting. The latter is also the attitude towards state incentives for housing savings, which we see shrinking in the state budget year after year. In these 3.5 years, the government has assured us three times in the Assembly that the state-run incentive funds for housing are not good, that housing savings are used by consumers in a non-intentional way and that they are not in the function of encouraging housing and thus the growth of construction in the Republic of Croatia, but that they are used in a non-intentional manner, and then they need to be reduced and the Ministry of Finance announced their abolition with the last amendment. So we've already had, three times the government in the Parliament has assured us of that. In order to re-enhancing the Law on Housing Savings and State Incentives at today's cabinet session, the Government now argues that the encouraging savings are indeed encouraging in Croatia and is in the function of encouraging housing in the Republic of Croatia and is coming to what we in the HDZ club are persistently saying and that housing loans that are based on housing savings on housing savings are the most favourable housing loans in the Republic of Croatia. There were no more favourable housing loans in this country's history, and it has been proven that each euro invested in the state budget, which was sent to housing users through housing savings, has been processed 2.5 times by returning to the state budget. So that's what the studies have shown, and we're aware of that, but the government has persistently assured us that it's not so that we can hear at the government's meeting today that the government is re-enhancing housing savings. If we were naughty, we might say it has something to do with the election, obviously it doesn't, because the government probably wouldn't do it if it were for the election, so she probably changed her attitude and came to what HDZ has been insisting on, and that's not to reduce housing savings, let's make it possible to buy apartments, encourage housing, allow young people to solve housing issues, etc. etc. On that trail, how the government is happy to change attitudes and contributes to the fact that it is permanent in this world only changes is the attitude towards the Peljesk Bridge. When the government took responsibility for the leadership of Croatia, the Pelješki bridge was, according to senior officials, the Kukuriku coalition was an illusion of fools and tried through all possible ways to find some solution so as not to build bridges, so it was a tunnel, so a ferry connection, so some corridor through the neighbouring country everything but the bridge. By the way, speaking of the Peljesk Bridge, I can say that here is yesterday the third anniversary of how I, i.e. I and the HDZ Club, referred to the Parliamentary Declaration, the parliamentary procedure, so the Declaration of Transport of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County in the function of constitutional legal equality of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which we wanted to tell the Government that what HDZ is saying is confirmed by the European Commission. And that the Pelješki bridge is the only real traffic solution for extracting the south of Croatia from traffic isolation. However, the arguments made by HDZ to the Government are not as strong as those given by officials, officials, third-ranked European Commission officials from Brussels, and when they say that this is really good, it is also good for the Government. But we like it in HDZ that the government at least listens to someone when they won't listen to our justified HDZ views that the Peljek Bridge is the only real solution. Why am I saying this during the debate on the state budget report? Because we have witnessed that the current minister of maritime, transport and infrastructure has announced several times the start of the construction of the Pelješko Bridge, first at the end of last year, and in March of this year, now in October of this year. I would have been the happiest if it hadn't been stopped construction, if it had continued immediately at the beginning we could have almost bridged this 3.5 years and built but it would have been good if it had started to build in October of the month I just don't see that the government provided funds either in last year's budget, nor in this year's budget, nor in Croatia's roads as extra-accountary users provided these funds, so then I don't see whether this transparency of the government is in the financing of the Peljega Bridge. I welcome the government to ensure that half of the funding for the construction of the Pelješko bridge was built by EU funds and that the funds the government will provide from European funds will invest in... the construction of roads located on Pelješac and another small bridge to return to the mainland. Thank you, Mr. President, for allowing me these few seconds to miss the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114585	Time's up, buddy. Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114586	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So how do you insist on the deficit, and so will I. The national methodology is clear, you've been working on a national methodology, we're working on a national methodology that clearly says total income and expenditure on the cash model has gone into the treasury, it's come out of the treasure. The ESA methodology also has the Institute of Statistics issue a brochure and an explanation, the ESA 1995 differs with the ESA 2010. The tables, which say the ESA methodology, mean no hiding, two methodologies, say the methodology of what, in which way, it is the ESA 2010 and we know how to do the national methodology, so in these explanations, it says that 5.7 per ESA is a deficit, that 7.5 was in 2011 and all the documents and facts. As far as Peljesac is concerned, you are trying something that we have managed to solve studioly with the feasibility of studies, research to prove and show that the best solution is to build not only the Pelješko Bridge, but that it can be co-financed 75 to 85% and that those access roads go inside because access roads cost almost as much as a bridge and that's not possible from the budget, and that's quite clear, we immediately said and went towards this expecting that in the European Union we will now be able to solve the story that we didn't want to build it. Why? I agree with the policy is that everyone represents their position, but it is quite clear to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that we are and that we will provide funds from European funds and we will build the Pelješki bridge and that we will no longer throw those loose cornerstones because it is the same cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114587	Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114588	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Gjurkovic, you are the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance, so your word in the Croatian Parliament would have a little more weight in the budget than the other parliamentary representatives. But you're convincing me, it would be better if you could convince the State Audit Office to convince the Commission of the fiscal rules that say you're wrong. Then you convince them first, and then when you convince them, then you'll be much more convincing to me. This is how it seems to me that, for your party reasons, you claim what the relevant institutions do not confirm to you. So when and when it comes to the application of international standards, they have been applicable since 2013. As far as I have information, I'm not as much into it as you are. Therefore, then your observations cannot apply to 2011 but only after 2013. As for the Pelješko Bridge, in 3.5 years we spent first to throw out Croatian construction companies and to pay them. How much in this ministry we spent money on free studies both around the Pelješka bridge and about the monetization of Croatian roads and about the privatisation of ACI which failed and about the privatisation of HZ CARGO and Croatia Airlines. If we had invested it all in the Pelješki bridge almost to cover these 50% of the funds we will receive for the construction of the Peljega Bridge from the European Union. It's just that we've run politics a little more wisely in maritime, transport and infrastructure. As we're not, we're gonna lose on the bridge and... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114589	Dear Representative Josip Boric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114590	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bacic, I support everything you've said because the fact is that when this government came to power, it wasn't ready to run the country, it was easy to make promises, so it gave up and that over four years it was wandering and today we're where we are. I remember these times, the main strategies, the promoter of this Plan 21 was Minister Slavko Linic, who in the economic programme of the SDP or the Kukurik coalition in the pre-election campaign, repeatedly announced that, for example, he would abolish military contributions, meaning all parafiscal charges, monumental rent, that it would be zero rates, etc., that VAT would be reduced, that there would be a reduction of health contribution not 40%, but perhaps even 50, and it was all standing somewhere and it was written down, we don't have to lie to anything, all of it was. Today, economic programs are important, and here we are all asked what is ours. What happened? When it came to the Peljesk Bridge, they were walking around Dubrovnik and they said exactly, here I am transferring the Pelješki bridge is a trick, we will build the highway to Dubrovnik. Only lunatics can build it. That's what I'm saying. So what now? What do we call those who want to build it? These are the things that come back to you when you say something and no, yeah, okay, great, so when you build, you're the builder, O.K., I agree, let's build it and let it benefit the entire Republic of Croatia, let's say all these things. But wandering, let's say in VAT for hospitality, i.e. to catering services. 25, well 13 and they say we're super competitive and with 13% we compete with everyone. Here, I'm just thinking a few facts to figure out what this government was wandering into, what it was doing to us today we're seeing some kind of truth of our own. And when we tell them what really happened and what happened, we're all some kind of quacks that we don't know and keep making things up. And that's all we've been through together and you and I here in this assembly and all this time and we see the truth differently than they present to us today. ... We say here we are quite something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114591	Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114592	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Boris, you reminded me not to wander the government when it comes to VAT rates in tourism. But what was particularly unacceptable in this wandering was the fact that we first reduced the rate to 10% and then the tourist homes in Croatia agreed arrangements with agencies for next year. And when they agreed and signed each other's rights and obligations, then the Parliament returned the rate to 13% of the government's proposal and the 3% fell to the burden of those same hotel houses that we assured them that summer would be reduced to their rate. So, and they were saying, so give people a chance to at least pay off this season and these contracts, and then for next year we'll get ready because tourism clearly doesn't live from day to day but is planned a year in advance. And as far as the bridge is concerned, I would no longer talk about it, I would just say one thing that in the transport strategy of the development of the Republic of Croatia that this Parliament has not yet seen, which is unacceptable to me, the Peljeski bridge is not even mentioned. So there's no mention of the Peles Bridge. And I am convinced that today the Government stands firm on his, at the point of view of his needs and construction but in this document he does not yet stand as a safe way of transport of the Republic of Croatia. So I prayed that, once in the apartment I asked for on behalf of the club, that the government would have mercy on us and that the parliamentary representatives would introduce us to the proposal of this strategy because I believe that this strategy is one of the most important strategies that enable economic development in the Republic of Croatia. And without the development of the transport structure there is no quality economic development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114593	Respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114594	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, about this part of the budget you're talking about and how this government is constantly wandering, giving up its projects. I would say that this government has tried to bring order into a mess, especially in the financial section because if I may, your government has not strayed, your government has spent as much as a NATO pact without any restrictions. And if you hadn't spent as much on highways as you spent, and this is now being shown through the opening of some investigations, it's very likely that we might actually be in a situation today to think about building a big infrastructure project ourselves. However, when we came to power, we saw that we were not in a financial situation, and then it was said that we did not want to build a bridge towards Peljesac, but that we were not able to budgetally build a bridge towards Peljesac, and it is quite clear to you because you worked in those ministries that worked on the project. What we've said is we'll see how we're going to build this bridge for the citizens of Croatia without it destroying actually state finances and we've succeeded. We have also succeeded in failing you now, but I am very sorry that you are not pleased, but we have succeeded in the way that this bridge will be financed by the European Union. And as for the other alternative ways of coming to Peljesac, that's what your president told me. However, his program seems to me to be part of some kind of development infrastructure program and connecting the island and coast in a way that builds tunnels under the sea, and I haven't heard it from any of the officials in the Kukuriku coalition, so you've probably confused something.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114595	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114596	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, for you, for the Peljek Bridge, there was no money. Perhaps for us from southern Croatia there was no money for the most expensive project in Croatian road construction. You know what the river bypass project is? The Rijeka and highway trail to Varazdin are the two most expensive traffic routes paid in Croatia. And you see, in southern Croatia it never bothered us and we never said it was unnecessary, don't build it, and it built the highway to the Varazdin Government of the late President Ivica Racan, and we finished it, and the highway is the most expensive km towards Varazdin. It's not hard to check, I can do that, you've made sure I never tell the truth in the Croatian Parliament, so I'll deliver it to you. And the river bypass, and it never occurred to us to dispute, began to dispute the price of the Peljega Bridge. We will see respected colleagues at the competition after European bureaucrats tell us that this is indeed the best traffic route, how much this project will cost and who will implement it. This is very important and who will be the subcontractor, it will also be very important. And I ask you to refrain once and to abide by those constitutional provisions and principles that everyone is innocent until a final court ruling is proved because you could also ask the same question in that same case that you are alluding to, which refers to the road construction of another political party from which you are declared to be providing a million kuna. You probably haven't forgotten that, so I'm just saying to be careful when we talk about these things or at least wait for the rightful verdicts, and then we'll be in the House at that level to respect ourselves and watch what we say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114597	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mladen Marelić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114598	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, I'd just like to ask you when the works on the bridge stopped. When did they stop? I'm telling you 5.6.0. The next question I ask you, yes, we didn't ask for consent to the one... where it's the best... we all knew it was the best bridge and that's why we went a long time ago with the scrawl to do it, but we expected someone who would co-finance that bridge. But I'm really surprised to you that we didn't finish it long ago because if it wasn't for the wolf's knots... the rainbows, there's 60 and something million, that there wasn't a Longfield, a board about half a billion more funds there around it, a resort over the board, the tails were dragging for a long time. If we didn't have a paint tunnel and it was all on the bridge. We built toilets, how much those toilets cost that are not used at all because they're a little further away from them are other stop stations, resorts. And when you look at it all that, the bridge could have been over long ago that the money you used should have been used for the right thing. But that's why your president, when he was in Mostar, accepted the position of the SDP or supported the Prime Minister to go to Dubrovnik on a fast road. However... in Croatia, this message was sent from Mostar but they published it too. So you come to what you need, but everything... we, we, we. Gentlemen, you could have done it, you couldn't, and now you're still a bit jealous because this is done, but 80% certainly without Croatian means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114599	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114600	In 2011, when you took responsibility for the management of Croatia in the Croatian Roads, you had the decision of the Committee for Road Construction in which the Commission was sitting from the Prime Minister then the Prime Minister of Public Enterprises and Resolute Ministers of Finance and Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, then the sea, transport and infrastructure in which the decision of the Croatian Road made a proposal to finance the construction of the bridge as of 2017, taking care of the possibilities of the state budget. In 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia suspended the construction of the Pelješko Bridge, did not terminate the contract with the performers and decided in 2011 to continue the construction of the Pelješko Bridge and to take a look at the 2011 budget was secured in the Decision on the temporary financing of 80 million kuna, which should have been 320 million kuna at the annual level. On the other hand, Croatian roads claim that we have no money to build the Pelješka bridge, and I would like to ask the State Office for review and thank you for reminding me to check that Croatian roads in 2012 are in charge of 400 million kuna and invested in other people's property, while foreign property is owned by the County Road Administration. I'm asking you to check it out. So in 2012, Croatian roads took up credit to invest these same assets on other people's property, property of the County Road Administration. And you know that for what? So that the County Road Administrations can implement fewer projects with their cities and municipalities in the evening of the local elections in 2013 so that they can cut ribbons and open works and lay stone foundations. Therefore, it is not difficult to check whether it happened in 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114601	Now you've been a little longer. Okay. Dear colleague Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114602	Dear colleague Bačić, well, actually, my colleague Gjurkovic took the line from me to say so about the budget deficit, but I concluded that he failed to convince you of what he wanted, so here I am going to try again. So, you said if your government misrepresented the budget deficit in 2011 that it does not allow it, that it should not allow our government to make the same mistake, so we are wrongly determining the budget deficit. Therefore, there was no error in 2011 in determining the budget deficit whether there was an intention to do so, then. So it's about 2011 for your governments, and in 2014 for these governments, the budget deficit is determined by the cash method. And following Croatia's entry into the EU, EUROSTAT found, according to the ESA method in 2010, that the deficit in 2011 instead of 13 billion was 25 billion, so as you now say that the budget, that the deficit for 2014 is not 13 and a half, as it has been shown, but 18 billion. Therefore, there is no error, the difference is only in the method of determining the budget deficit and the deficits can only be compared if they are determined by the same methodology.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114603	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114604	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Jelash, I greatly appreciate your efforts in trying to convince me of what Mr Gjurkovic failed to convince me, unfortunately neither did you. Not because I don't trust you, but I trust the State Office for Audition and the Committee for Fiscal Rules a lot more. Well, when someone here, let the institution convince me that they are wrong, then I will trust you and my colleagues Gjurkovic, but for the time being, you have failed because I hold that everything written by the State Audit Office stands as far as I know and for a long, long time and as the head of the municipality and as Minister and Secretary of State I have participated in the drafting of the state budget and followed the adoption and reports of the state budget. Here, Mr. President, since you've given me a lot of opportunities to step back now, I'm going back to that time, so we haven't lost... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114605	That, colleague Bačić, I appreciate it. Thank you very much. New replica, respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114606	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Bačić, you always want to impose the thesis that the Pelješki bridge is the product of the HDZ government, i.e. that SDP is against. But the truth is completely different. You and I come from the same county where the Pelješki Bridge is one of the most important infrastructure projects now. You and I also remember where the idea of the Peles Bridge came from. My colleague Bačić, you and I know that contracts were signed without financial coverage. My colleague Bačić, you and I know that the theme of the Peljega Bridge has been very often used for politicizing in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and beyond. But my colleague Bačić and I know you won't be able to manipulate the elections anymore, that the SDP won't make it, or it won't build the Pelje Bridge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114607	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114608	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues of Shimac Bonačić. HDZ has never manipulated the Pelješki Bridge, and I would personally be most fortunate if you had continued and completed it and I would not have minded that you and your Dubrovnik boss, or the mayor of Dubrovnik, who told that bridge that the illusion was for fools and that you took the picture first at its completion. Unfortunately, you didn't, but you spent three and a half years on us inexplicably. You could have continued it and nobody in HDZ would have regretted it, least of all. As for pressure, manipulation as you called it, especially the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, had it not been for the pressure of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and especially the HDZ club, the bridge would not have been high priority for this Croatian government. And if there were no pressure from that same county and that same party in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, your Prime Minister would have signed a harmful contract with the neighbouring country right away from the Pelješko Bridge and this agreement on establishing the border between the Republic of Croatia and BiH in the Bay of Malaysia and the Gulf of Neum. Well, just because you think this HDZ in Dubrovnik-Neretva County is manipulating, we managed to manipulate the Prime Minister too, so he gave up something that convinced us for this speaker that it was good, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, but you can see that he did listen to the advice of the HDZ from the south of Croatia and gave it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114609	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114610	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bacic, since I'm the last one before the government and the state's chief auditor, we're going to be resuming at your hearing. So, the deficit of the state budget is 18.7 billion and when guarantees for the Croatian railways are added here tomorrow, it goes up to 20 billion kuna. It is true that Croatia has the fastest growing growth in the share of public debt in GDP. That's the facts. However, it is fascinating with which the resistance of the colleague and colleagues on the other side of the assembly are struggling to show in 2011 in the ESO 2010 when it was not an obligation. But at the same time, they run away from the fact that in 2014 when there's a commitment they show around the ESO in 2010, and that's the best indicator of who's right, that we don't fight here anymore. Just like the Peljek Bridge, we should just take out all those statements, stick them around the Parliament so we don't fight anymore who's talking. And it would also be very interesting to see how much it costs a mile of the Rijeka bypass, who insisted on some things to build and how much it costs the highway from St. Helene to Varazdin and how many tens and tens of millions were spent on rehab and highways, practically a year and a half after it ended. And then we can talk about anything. Only fortunately, HDZ did not participate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114611	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114612	Thank you, Mr. President. I have nothing to replicate for you, but to say you're right, that I agree with everything you've said except to add something else. Namely, when it comes to the funds of the Croatian Railways, which you have replicated to me, during the HDZ Government, the cost of HZ holding was around 2 billion and 800 to 3 billion kuna per year. And then it went into the state budget. And now the government gentlemen have reduced the transfers to the Croatian Railways somewhere to 800 seems to me a million kuna a year and since it is not enough for the functioning of the system then the loans that are guaranteed and then it is as if it is not a transfer to the Croatian Railways and it should not then be an integral part of the expenditure of the state budget. And then it's clear that the smaller deficits in the government's opinion and on the other hand it turns out that HH is being restructured to spend less because it's being given less directly from the budget, and it's actually given more in just another way. So in this way, we are told in the Croatian Parliament that relations have been arranged in public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114613	Thank you very much. Before calling on the proposer's representative to present the final presentation, I would like to ask once again that respected representatives and representatives in official communication at the Croatian Parliament of the Croatian Government do not call "ours" and "yours" because it implies that both our government and yours exist at the same time. If you're gonna call her, at least call her by the name of the Prime Minister. ... You can, but not ours and yours. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not true, it's not real, it's not possible. ... I didn't say that, I'm just in the end so that you wouldn't, there were a few such names so I'm not one but I'm asking you nicely just... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, I agree, everything's a problem if we're going to raise it to potential, then it's going to be an even bigger problem. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, there is none of ours and yours, the Croatian government and is run by Ivo Sanader, Ivica Racan, Ivan, what's his name, Matija, isn't it? Matesha? Valentić etc. Currently, Zoran Milanovic. On behalf of the promoter, final word Igor Radjenovic, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114614	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't be long, I promise. Although to remind myself that the government of the Republic of Croatia was headed by Stipe Mesic and Josip Manolić and Jadranka Kosor, and I think we've listed everything then. I, on behalf of the Proposer, therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who has nominated in its decision to defend this Budget Report here, please allow just a few words to be concluded. [[Leko: Thank you very much.]] Respecting all of this, I would like to thank everyone for the part of the debate that was constructive, as I said both in the opening and the finding of the State Audit, which warned of certain imperfections in the budget itself, all of which were well-intentioned. It is clear that they could not and will not be resolved in this budget either in the term of office of this Government or in the next few years because simply a few systematic objections simply requires a certain time. I'm sorry that most of the debate against these last replicas was conducted around the deficit itself, the amount of the deficit. I think everyone is well-intentioned, I don't know how to look for a second term, the clear difference between the principle cash and the difference between the accounting principle that ESA was in 2010, and the cash principle by which we plan and implement the budget is also clear. Nothing's going on, nothing's hidden. I think my colleague Gjurkovic, as chairman of the Committee on Finance, is making that clear and loud, so I would not continue to owe it. Neither does this complaint, which is often used in the State Audit, which says that the data is not credible, does not refer to the ESA methodology, and the principle applies to other things and amounts to much smaller things, but I said I promised I wouldn't owe them, so I can't go any further. As in a narrow sense, the representative of the Ministry of Finance cannot even answer any questions related to other ministries and their executions, perhaps the best example of the Law on concessions mentioned in the above Law on concessions proposed by the Ministry of Finance but the responsibility for the payment of concessions itself is the grantors themselves. We also have these sub-chapters that bring in the ministries themselves, i.e. They're proposing to the government. On this side, I have also announced this on the Committee on Finance and in the fall you will have a proposal for a new Law on concessions that will far better process this matter and I believe and respond to one of the important substitutes from the findings of the state audit and on this side prove that my first thesis that every criticism is good comes from that side. And in any case, my assessment is that I also believe that every well-intentioned one can say that today's budget report on the budget is more responsible and more transparent each day, and that, as I said, things can't change overnight, but when you mention Mr. Prime Minister that the new Government of Zoran Milanovic will certainly have a better basis than the existing Government of Zoran Milanovic, and on that side in the new 4 years, it will also have a better background from this budgetary aspect. I didn't say the introduction, but it's not worse to say we've already forgotten, and that's why I'm saying it, and I support that the budget's thesis that works, that the liquidity of the budget is excellent, and that it's no longer a topic of when anything and how it's going to be paid out of the budget, things are paid out of the budget at the time, on the day that budget users of the treasury are introduced, and here with me and the state treasurer can't do it for this payout, but in any case the public in and the towers can't confirm because of your Rules of Procedure, so all obligations are paid in time, the current liquidity has been working, for several months there was a custom, there were also former ministers, it was the custom to borrow short-term funds for larger payments such as pensions we don't need it. So public finances in this respect work and liquidity works great. Today 2.7 of yesterday's 1.7th website of the Ministry of Finance has a liquidity plan and there are all these figures that I've been talking about and that the Ministry of Finance will pay back this month for the 7th month, so we do it at the beginning of each month, so I believe that this contributes to transparency and responsibility of functioning, and I say it confirms this my thesis that the next Government will have better foundations than the first Government of Zoran Milanovic has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114615	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have a replica. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114616	Thank you very much. Mr. Radjanovic, you offered me your statement that the next government would have better foundations than the Government of Zoran Milanovic. You came later to the Ministry of Finance and you didn't hear a statement from Mr Linic at the time when he took over the Ministry of Finance that he was surprised by the state, by the organisation in which the Ministry of Finance found him, and I would be sincerely overjoyed if the next Minister of Finance found the Ministry of Finance at the level of organisation and expertise at which it was 2011. And as for paying the Ministry of Finance, the committee to say so about daily liquidity was set up in 2005 and practically when the State Treasury was completed all the budget users knew at the hour when and how much they would be paid. Only so much, but I say read Mr. Linic's statement in the moments of taking over the Ministry of Finance and then be everything to you, because I simply say he would be delighted to see the next minister and professionally and organisationally found the Ministry of Finance as it was at the end of 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114617	The reply to the replica, respected Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114618	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Shuker, I believe you know that I may have been misunderstood, but I wasn't speaking in a narrow sense about the functioning of the Ministry of Finance, but about the government as a whole and responsibility for the government's policy as a whole. It is not and I have even fenced myself in this final replica that it is therefore a collection of the ministry and that the Ministry of Finance only as such concerns the functioning of the state budget, and I believe that you cannot deny these shifts that we have made in this very liquid principle and that is simply a matter of circumstances how and what works. It really wasn't and I didn't want to criticize the people of the Ministry of Finance. In the Ministry of Finance, indeed, there are many hardworking and hardworking people, all the echelon that has been at the levels of the chief of the sector, and today it works there. In the Ministry of Finance there are two, but on the fingers of one hand you would count who came as I and politically will leave the Ministry of Finance and it is indeed one center of excellence. However, we have a problem with the relatively small salaries that work in the state administration, and the relatively high demand of the market for professional people from the Ministry of Finance retains those people, I'm glad we kept some people from the 90s and these on, and I believe that they'll still remain in the ministry in the new governments, and it's actually very difficult to keep them, and you know it best. So I'm sorry if you realized that my final address was closely related to the Ministry of Finance, although my final presentation was related to the functioning of the state as a whole and the regularity of not the public finances in technical terms but to the overall K,M+M,+ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114619	We have nothing to add. Honorable representative of Jakša Balojevic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114620	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, on several occasions today it has been said that entrepreneurs are those who are driving our economy and that is correct. Personally I've been an entrepreneur for 21 years, for all those who've been dealing with business I haven't been in a blockade for a day, I haven't been late to pay the tax, so I think that entrepreneurs are really the backbone of our perspective, so in that sense it's not a replica but more suggestions and help on your part. Since I'm on a daily level whether or not I'm on the phone or in direct contact with many entrepreneurs, friends who asked me to say when an opportunity is given to say something that they point to, which is that when they deal with state institutions, they can't collect all the claims, even up to a year, two days. Supposedly when they go, let's say they insist on getting paid, then they say sue us. How are they gonna sue when you sue them for what they get? It's not even a business office that way, by the way, let's say those local self-government first of all. So I really ask you if you can do something about it and help these entrepreneurs to make our economy stronger and stronger than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114621	The reply to the replica, respected Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114622	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Baloevich. State finances are far more orderly and functioning from the state budget is functioning, we talked about the Financial Business Act in the morning which has made it possible to do so from that point of view. Therefore, as far as I'm aware of the budget items being fully met, there are no invoices under the table. If we are talking about local budgets, they are also... the same law according to which you have some knowledge that such pressures are competent is the budgetary supervision in the sector that Mr. Shuvak is headed today, so don't have to do it now, but let me see if there is a problem somewhere, which we do not know we will gladly exercise control and see what sanctions on that side can be taken according to the legal person himself or if it is local self-government and according to the responsible legal person, it is possible to give the new law, and these are mayors, therefore they are obliged to comply with the laws and to comply with their obligations in accordance with what they have undertaken contractually and what the law on fictitious business says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114623	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. On behalf of the State Audit Office, respected State Auditor Ivan Klešić final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114624	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So let me finally say a few words. This is how the State Audit Office carried out, as every year, an audit of the annual report on the implementation of the state budget and as every year I think in the last 21 reports it delivered to the Croatian Parliament within the legal deadline means by 1 June of this year. The process of selling shares to the Croatian Insurance Society and the opinion of the State Audit Office did not affect the expression and opinion of the annual report on the implementation of the state budget, so what I said at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The audit was carried out under the Law on the State Audit Office and in accordance with international audit standards according to which the area of audit is defined according to the criterion of relevance and risk assessment. In the context of checking the financing account again as I said on the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the receipts from the sale of shares in Croatia insurance were also verified, so these receipts are almost entirely related to receipts from the sale of shares in Croatia. Since it was an amount of 905 million kuna, perhaps a little more, according to exactly what I said, and this is in line with the international audit standards according to which the area of review is defined according to the criterion of importance, which is precisely a significant income one of the more significant, the receipt that the state budget has in 2014 of course the state auditors had to audit it. The question that came to me is why right now. and precisely because it was the income that was made in April 2014, it did not come into existence in 2013 and that was the only reason. And there was no reason to be motivated, which would have political motivation as someone here mentioned. State auditors have always worked, and I've been working in the State Audit for 20 years now since the draft, working with respect to the code... ethics of the work of state auditors. It was and so it will always be, without political motivation and I ask that everyone in this House understand. It'll always be like that. The opinion of the State Audit Office relating to the procedures carried out is based on the documentation of the Ministry of Finance and the fact that the Law on the Conversion of Capital of Companies to the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in 1992 at the time of the sale of shares, was in force. In fact, no other law nor the Law on State Property Management adopted after 2010 has put this law out of force. Article 9 of the Law explicitly states that the decision on how to privatise the Republic of Croatia's capital in insurance and reinsurance companies is to be taken by the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I stress, under the Law on Government of the Republic of Croatia, Article 8. "The government manages, disposes and uses the property of the Republic of Croatia unless the special law provides otherwise", unless the special law provides otherwise. "The law on the conversion of insurance and reinsurance companies to the Republic of Croatia is a special law which explicitly stipulates who makes the decision on the privatisation of the insurance company, and the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia provides for a restriction on the availability of property if the special law is different." Therefore, according to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, neither according to special law was the Government authorised to make a decision on privatisation or sale of shares of the Croatian Insurance Company d.d. It's the opinion of us from the State Audit. In addition, allow me to eventually, I will be very brief in respecting what the president of the Assembly Committee on Financial and Budget has suggested. In addition, I would like to point out in the end that the State Audit Office is not competent to determine whether something is legal or not. We determine whether business changes and procedures have been carried out in accordance with the regulations and whether something is legal or not determined by the courts. And finally let me thank you all for correct and quality discussions and for your attention on behalf of the State Audit Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114625	Thank you, too, Chief State Auditor. We have one replica, respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114626	Thank you very much. Dear Chief State Auditors, you said, Mr Klesic, today we have been listening all day and you have given a conditional opinion on the implementation of the state budget, you have made certain recommendations. You've done all of this under the Budget Law. We know that when it comes to cities and municipalities that, for example, the responsible person of the budget or the budgetary user will pay a fine of 50 to 100 thousand kuna if, for example, does not submit an annual report on the implementation of the budget to the Ministry of Finance or the State Audit Office within 15 days after being brought by the representative body of the unit of local self-government. Whether in this case anyone will be sanctioned, given that a number of irregularities have been identified, missing deadlines, not making a decision and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114627	The reply to the replica is respected Chief State Auditor Ivan Klešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114628	A very short answer to the honourable representative. The State Audit Office is not a sanctioning institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114629	Thank you very much. We finished, exhausted the lists of speakers, replicas and reply to the replica, final exposure. We'll vote on the reports when the conditions are met, probably tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114630	(a) The proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and (b) the annual report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for 2014 has been finalised. I am voting on the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour, 2 abstentions, 17 votes against, have brought the Annual Report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting the fiscal responsibility law to the vote of the 2014 Annual Report on the application of the fiscal rules. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 76 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 19 votes against, have brought the Annual Report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2014. In accordance with the provisions of Article 11. I am giving the budget law to vote 1, Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2014. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 74 votes in favour, 1 vote abstention and 21 votes against, a decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters financial plan for 2014. Under 2 I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2014. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 76 for, 3 abstentions and 17 votes against, a decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2014. Under 3 I am voting in the Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2014. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 75 votes for, 3 abstentions and 21 votes against, a decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2014. 4, I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2014. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 76 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 15 votes against, a decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Deposit Insurance Agency's financial plan and the resolution of banks for 2014. 5, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2014. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 74 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 19 votes against, a decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114930	And now we move on to the next planned act, that's: - The Family Law proposal, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 847; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the first reading of the Law apply to the adoption of this Law. These are Articles 183 to 188. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the motionary want to further explain the government's proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Maja Sporish. Here you go, Comrade Maya.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114931	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. You have before you a draft Family Law proposal aimed at ensuring the protection of legal institutes defined by the Family Law of 2014 in order to maintain a minimum level of legal certainty and the protection of the rights and well-being of the child and persons with disabilities achieved by the adoption of the Family Law of 2014. This Family Law has introduced a wide range of newspapers in the area of family legal protection for children and adults with disabilities and in accordance with applicable international documents and European Court of Human Rights rulings. Thus, the Institute of a Plan on joint parental care was established as a way in which parents who do not live together arrange the achievement of parental care. Mandatory consultation has been introduced through which the state travels to the spouses systematically, professional assistance before formal court proceedings are formally initiated in order, in each case, to firstly define and formulate the individual needs of children and parents in agreement. the plan on parental care outside the court proceedings and then in the judicial procedure, checked and obtained the power of the executive document. In addition, the Institute of Family Mediation was introduced as a procedure in which specially educated experts assist conflicted parties to resolve their disputes in a peaceful manner and to protect the child from further trauma in court proceedings. A new independent and independent institution has also been defined, the Centre for Special Care in which special guardians are employed for children who, in court proceedings, represent the interests and will of a child independently of the parents who also participate in the procedures in question and special guardians for persons in the deprivement of business capacity in order to prevent a conflict of interest on the part of the Centre for Social Care, who performs in the same procedure as the initiator of the deprivement of the business capacity and as a representative of the person’s interest in the relationship with which the proceedings are conducted. The Institute of Tables was established at the level of child restraint in view of the age of the child, the number of children and the constant monetary income of the abstention obligor established each year by the Minister in charge of social care, so that parents may know in advance the amount of restraint they would receive in the judicial procedure and have guidelines to determine the amount of restraint when drawing up the aforementioned joint parental care plan. A distinction is introduced between the right to parental care as a fundamental human right acquired by the parent at the time of determining the origin of the child in relation to the right and duty of parental care in respect of which the mother and father are equal. The achievement of joint parental care remains a rule on which the child's well-being is based, and therefore the achievement of joint parental care is necessarily conditional upon the parents' agreement on achieving joint parental care after the divorce or termination of the extramarital community through a joint parental care plan. On the other hand, under the circumstances of high conflict between parents when they fail to reach a plan on joint parental care, the law defines the possibility for the court to make a decision based on which only one parent will have the right to carry out parental care on its own and which aims to prevent situations where the child is torn apart between two conflicting parents who are in no position to put the child’s interest and the child’s well-being ahead of their own interests in which the child becomes a weapon in their continuing conflicts and possible manipulations. When deciding on parental care, the court should give priority to a parent who is willing to agree, ready to cooperate and agree and encourage personal relations with another parent, where there is an obligation to take care of the elements of family violence if there is doubt about it, as well as the best interests of the child. Furthermore, with the aim of leaving as little space as possible for conflicts and as little space as possible for child manipulation in circumstances in which parents do not live together, it is clear what decisions regarding child's personal and property rights must be taken together, in which form, where parental care areas have autonomy, when they have the right and duty to act hastily to protect the child's well-being and when they are obliged to share information with each other regarding the child. In addition, a new institution has been introduced to calm down the achievement of parental care that enables a part of parental care by a minor parent within the limits of his ability, but also allows for the achievement of a part of parental care by parents who are incapacitated in business, again within the limits of his abilities. It is completely abandoned by the court’s decision-making institute when a child over 16 years of age became a parent and is ensured through the parent - care institute that the juvenile parent retains all the rights stemming from their dual status both as parents and as children, particularly taking into account the marked vulnerability of minor parents. It is also abandoned from the existing institution of parental care after its adulthood because from the point of view of contemporary understanding of the protection of human rights of adults with disabilities it is totally unacceptable to treat adults with disabilities as children. In the area of adoption, it is possible for parents to agree to adopt under certain conditions to replace the court with their decision and to introduce compulsory prior education for adopters. By subject law, the protection of persons deprived of their business skills has been raised to an exceptional level. They are allowed to enter into marriage, to recognise paternity, to participate in judicial proceedings, and to abolish the full depravity of their business capacity, and all in accordance with the positions taken in the European Court of Human Rights rulings. In accordance with the numerous judgments of the European Court of Justice, an independent representative from the Centre for Special Care shall be provided to the person in respect of whom the proceedings are conducted, in order to prevent the same person, such as the worker of the Centre for Social Care and to initiate the procedure and to represent the interests of the person in respect of which the proceedings are conducted. It should be noted that following the entry into force of the Family Law of 2014 another European Court of Human Rights ruling has been passed in which the Republic of Croatia has been ordered to pay compensation for human rights violations precisely because the person to whom the procedure for deprivement of business ability was not represented by an independent representative. At the same time, the Family Law of 2014 allowed every person to appoint the person he would like to care for at the time of the existence of his business, which introduces the Institute of Anti-Cysed Commands into the Croatian legal system. In view of the fact that the law in question was in force for more than 4 months, the most important institutes introduced by the Family Law of 2014. In fact, on 1 September 2014, the Centre for Special Care was launched, where special custodians were employed. Graduated lawyers with a passed judicial exam representing children and persons with disabilities in the procedures in which their rights are decided. During 2014, staff of the Centre for Special Care were appointed special guardians for 697 children and were in charge of protecting and expressing their will exclusively the rights and interests of the child. For the most part, it was the procedures for saying measures to protect the rights and well-being of the child in the jurisdiction of the court, such as the withdrawal of the right to residence with the child and the procedures in which there is a conflict of interest between the child and his parents, for example. Since the appointed special guardians have, among other things, the task of properly talking to the child and establishing the child’s true will, it is possible for them to actually represent the child’s voice in these court proceedings. In addition, employees of the Centre for Special Care during 2014 represented 225 adults in the deprivement of business capacity and other procedures where it is estimated that it is necessary to protect the rights and interests of adults and to appoint them special custodians. This ensures adequate protection of the rights and interests of those persons in the process. Also based on the 2014 Family Law, a network of particularly educated family mediators was formed, which were enrolled in the Mediator Register, which was established at the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and publicly available on the Ministry's website. In just 4 months of law enforcement, significant positive effects have been observed in this respect. According to the statistics available until the 2014 Family Law entered into force, about 150 couples in our country were divorced monthly without reaching an agreement. Since the application of the new law, only 10 couples have filed cases for divorce, while others have agreed and divorced the joint parental care plan by agreement or agreement. It is estimated that the possibility of reaching a joint parental care plan through the mandatory consultation process and then of family mediation as well as the availability of clear guidelines and examples for filling the plan on the Ministry's website has led to a significant increase in the number of divorces in which parents still manage peacefully through an agreement on parental care and thus to prevent further trauma of children through long-term court proceedings. The family law of 2014 complies with a whole series of regulations that were subsequently adopted, such as the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex, the Law on Temporary Maintenance, the Law on Associations, etc. Decision of the Constitutional Court opened a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality of the Family Law of 2014 and laid down that, until the final decision of the Constitutional Court, all individual acts and actions taken under the Family Law of 2014 should be suspended and the Family Law of 2003 applied until the final decision of the Constitutional Court is reached. With this solution, the Constitutional Court left the Family Law of 2003 in force and thus prevented the application of the institutes which represented a significant positive shift in the protection of the rights of the most vulnerable groups of society in the Family Law of 2014. The objective solution of the Constitutional Court questioned legal certainty and, among other things, the most vulnerable group of society such as children and disabled persons were left without an adequate level of protection of their rights guaranteed by the Family Law of 2014 through a whole series of institutes such as the Institute of Independent and Unbiased Special Trustee from the Centre for Special Care, and through the abolition of full lack of business capacity. This solution also made it impossible to draw up a joint parental care plan, so children are again exposed to trauma in long-term court proceedings, it is impossible to appoint special guardians to children in procedures conducted before courts and other bodies, thus drastically reducing the level of child protection, especially in relation to many valid international documents. The constitutional court's solution in question created legal uncertainty which is reflected in the fact that currently in the Republic of Croatia, in some way in the legal life of two Family Laws, the one from 2003 and the one from 2014 that is completely different from the large number of institutes. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court’s decision lays down that, until the final decision of the Constitutional Court, the execution of all the individual acts and actions taken under the Family Law of 2014 has been suspended and that until the final decision of the Constitutional Court has been reached, the Family Law of 2003 has not been repealed or repealed. In fact, there was a situation where both of the laws were mentioned in some way in legal life. By way of derogation, the Constitutional Court has not abolished or annulled the Family Law of 2014 as a whole, but also its provision, which put the Family Law of 2003 out of force. In addition, due to the constitutional court’s decision in question, there was a discrepancies of the 2003 Family Law, whose application the Constitutional Court also ordered a series of specific rules in question. For example, the Interim Restraint Act adopted in this House came into force on 1 September 2014 when the Family Law of 2014 took over fully the regulation of the area of temporary child restraint, which was only governed by several provisions of the 2003 Family Law until 1 September 2014. As a result of the temporary return to the application of the 2003 Family Law for a solution to the Constitutional Court which contains provisions on temporary abstention which differ significantly from those of the Provisional Restraint Act, legal uncertainty has taken place again in this area which is currently divergently governed by two different laws which apply. All mentioned as well as the protection of the institutes adopted by the Family Law of 2014 and which have successfully revived the reasons for proposing this law. It should also be noted that certain proposals submitted for the assessment of constitutionality for which the Constitutional Court's decision was adopted also shows that certain provisions of the Family Law of 2014 in certain parts are not sufficiently clear and that language, explicit, nomotechnical adjustments that have been removed from the doubts and ambiguities that have arisen in the interpretation of the law have been carried out. By way of derogation from the Constitutional Court’s decision, the issue of individual acts, judicial decisions, solutions, individual acts taken by other competent authorities which have been adopted and have become powerful and enforceable under the family law of 2014, or by no means has the question of the rights acquired by the powers and enforcement of individual acts adopted by the application of the 2014 law been resolved. For the sake of the standards set before the legal order, the principle of legal certainty proposed by law will also address the issue of retaining the rights acquired by virtue of the powers and enforcement decisions adopted under the 2014 law. Therefore, this legislative proposal will maintain family and legal protection of children and persons deprived of their business skills at the level achieved by the adoption of the Family Law of 2014 and will allow for the continuation of the work of the Centre for Special Care in the form in which it has been brought to life since the application of the Family Law of 2014. In addition, this law will allow family mediators to continue their work as particularly educated experts whose work is aimed at helping parties in the dispute to try to resolve their conflict peacefully and thus prevent further trauma of children in long-term and conflicting court proceedings. Furthermore, it will prevent the handling of competent authorities which are contrary to the views given in the European Court of Human Rights rulings and thus stop the generation of new court proceedings and additional costs for the state budget. The proposed law was drawn up on the basis of the 2014 Family Law, it was improved by proposals, remarks and suggestions which were received from both entities which applied the law in practice within four months, so as to encourage the mother, social care centre staff, special guardians, lawyers, judges, etc. and the observations and proposals received during several consultations with the interested public which have been carried out over the last few months. So I urge you to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114932	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We're moving on to replicas. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114933	Dear Deputy, when you explained this bill and why he is here today at the hearing. You mentioned the Constitutional Court's decision, which is why this bill comes. I must say, if I've ever referred to any decision by any court, then these most constitutional court cases, then it's worth mentioning here this time. Unfortunately, in a very negative context. The Constitutional Court abolishes the law that received excellent results at the outset, only this information that out of 150 divorce applications, only 10 of them went to trial, 697 children received a special guardian. So these conflicts and potential conflicts between parents and guardians have always been harmful to the child. That was the main motive for the adoption of the Family Law. However, obviously because of the different interests in society that are not in the interest of the child above all, it is unfortunate. And when the largest institution in Croatia is involved, the Constitutional Court is very worrying. At the hearing of potential candidates for the Constitutional Court, a counselor who worked for 20 years in the Constitutional Court and on the basis of which provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court had for the first time been suspended in history by the Constitutional Court for the first time in history by the Constitutional Court, not all of the law had abolished some of his provisions but had suspended him and thus left the children at the mercy of conflicting parents and prevented the functioning of excellent institutes, he replied it would not be popular to say this now when I returned to my house ie. in the Constitutional Court but there is no such provision. No one's even recorded it. It's embarrassing!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114934	Thank you. No response, next replica of the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy, you were actually telling us about the same document that was suspended or put out of force on 16 January. You had a nice address to the Constitutional Court, and you didn't tell us if anything had changed. When you were already praising this same document, you didn't even tell us who were members of the task force appointed for the creation of the Family Law. So, on 16 January, he was put out of force, and already on 4 February, you were able to come out with the first draft of a new law, so to speak. A new law that is truly a world record. I will deny you, and once again I will say that it is incorrect that you have stated that the European Court of Human Rights or that it was the basis for the amendment of the legislation. This is absolutely incorrect because the European Court warned of insufficient application of the then applicable family law of 2003. When you were talking about the excellence of the results that were obtained in almost 4 months of your so-called use. I'm going to tell you or I'm going to ask you how it's possible that you can call the good 8 custodians you mentioned for the whole of Croatia that they were extremely good at representing children and people who were deprived of special abilities in 800 cases? Tell me, is it possible that you consider it satisfactory? And besides, there's been a divorce blockade. I can confirm that from the very best examples. And don't try to deny it because I'm telling you, I have the best example of it. Since the start of application, you say only 10 couples have filed a divorce suit. And that's not because the rest of them got divorced in agreement, people were stifled with the forest of the procedure that was put before them and went through the trauma because they were brought back to divorce. I don't know if you're aware of those facts?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114936	Thank you, colleague Glavak. Here you go, deputy. And there's no answer? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114937	I'm very glad you mentioned that there are eight agents at the Centre for Special Care. That's exactly what we're having right now, and the wound cancer that was produced by the Family Law suspension. We had planned for 2015 to employ more people as special custodians at the Centre for Special Care because we knew that people would have a hard time doing this job with regard to capacity. That's why we planned the employment funds. Of course, the suspended law cannot, behind it cannot be a tender for employment for such an institution. It's another blockade, and thank you for reminding me to state that it was just the suspension of the 2014 Law. Special custody center and, in that sense, blocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114938	Thank you. Jaksha Baloevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114939	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, I'm going to point out one absurd, one discrimination about disabled children. What's this about? We know that there are about 50,000 associations in Croatia that cost about a billion and 600 million kuna. So in the woods of these organizations there are a number of organizations dealing with children with developmental difficulties. So I was approached by an association from the island of Brac, which is quite specific that they come from the island and is the problem. I will read, in the Jadrolinija Regulation, it reads: "Right on free transport, there are the following persons: children up to 3 years old, bus drivers, bus drivers, truck drivers up to 10 tons, truck drivers and truck trackers over 10 tons, students and students staying on the island if they are sent on land, pensioners up to 65 years old and persons over 65 with residence on the island." The Law on Privileges in Internal Travel for Persons with Disabilities states Article No. Six. "Invalidal persons have the right to benefit from an internal passenger transport of 75% of the regular ticket price for 4 trips per year by rail or by boat." Which is four times a year for the island children with disabilities, sometimes their parents take them even four times a week. I was also referring to the question today, a representative question to your resolution ministry, in that sense, that we really are equating these children with disabilities with children who go to the mainland whether they are going to school, so here I am asking you to consider a problem like this, because it really is a problem, and I think that we need to put these children with disabilities in an equal position and with other children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114940	Thank you. There's no answer. Ante Babic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114941	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, you said the Family Law came to life four months after that, the Constitutional Court's decision was annulled. You're in your address today as if you were arguing with the Constitutional Court and you kept saying what he should have done and what he shouldn't have done. And you think you're right now. But the profession tells you that again it's about one big, one illogical, one unarranged, one contradictory law, and it's in itself confusing, even though it's said that, in fact, this family law is capillaryly intruding into all the pores of society. Normally when talking about family, family as an institution, as a healthy core of every society, then you need to be very, very careful. I remember well that in the previous Family Law or the proposal of that law, the attorney general for the children has made a few dozen remarks, I do not know how many, but I do know that this time, the comments of the attorney general for the children are completely missing. What is also to be said, and the law should have changed it in areas related to the divorce process and the conclusion of a parental care plan that I personally believe is not in the interest of parents or children. I believe that such conceptual changes would not only result in cosmetic changes but in a thorough manner because this did not solve the basic problem of this law, and this is his prejudiciality, which was referred to by his colleague Glavak as the confusion that is feeling here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114942	Thank you. And the last replica of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, this is today the second time, yesterday and the day before yesterday to simply degrade the expertise, and what is done today, what you said in your speech today, is a deal with the Constitutional Court. It's inadmissible in the Republic of Croatia. One who does not respect the Constitutional Court should wonder what he is doing here in the place where you are. Because this reckoning can't be understood by anyone who has any regard for the state they live in, and at least because there's nothing in these 600 and some of the members we talked about in that 2014 law that pointed out everything that shows you and now you're aware and professional, and social workers and lawyers, and judges who did several round tables and clearly concluded that what you just brought before us was said in how many days of Ms. Assistants? In 13 days. It's really a record. Well done. And what you did, nothing, nothing. You kept telling us about the 2014 law here at the pay phone. You can't say what you've changed here, because you haven't changed anything, you're nothing. And what did you write in your explanation? Do you even understand, understand, you know, you do, but you play till the end and you get in, you think in 4 but believe in reverse you're total. Is what the future is to apply this regulation that shows the experience of change, here's what I told you, Family Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114944	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114945	Whether a relationship can be settled normably or you think that in a different way, they are dealt with in a different way rather than with 626 normative acts that will not solve anything, and what offends you most is your behavior and your speech to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114946	Comrade twilight time. It's time, comrade twilight. I mean, let's be correct and tolerated. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club Grubisic-Kain Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Željko Reiner. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114947	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I must point out that at the very least it is incorrect for the Croatian public that this proposal of one so seriously disputed law came to an end only in this late evening hours, in front of a dozen parliamentary representatives, but it is clear to us that the only reason is that all the failures of this disastrous law would try as successfully and better to hide from the eyes of the Croatian public. We have no illusions that due to the late hours in which it is being discussed, the media will report anything about it, and apparently it was wanted to be done. In our first reading, the proposal of the Family Law, which was suspended in the previous version by the Constitutional Court precisely because of the remarks pointed out in the parliamentary debate not only by the HDZ as an opposition party, but also by many errors and failures, and by the professional public, by the most excellent experts in family law but by NGOs, and by those from both the left and the right of the political spectrum. And what happened after this government defamation, but also the indignity of ruling MPs in the Parliament who are not just thinking because they are told that they must so unanimously raise their hands for such a anti-constitutional law? There's a bizarre deja vu going on. According to Minister Opačić himself, the bill sent by the government to Parliament this time contains quotes "only minor no-technical changes, corrections of ambiguity while they are in it", again quote "retained all the institutes that have led to such a major reform of family legislation". So, according to the public recognition of Minister Opačić, there is only a minimal cosmetic change in one originally bad, and a still anti-constitutional law that is essentially identical to that of the previous one. And now, of course, there are some questions. Is this only about the spite of the minister of the Constitutional Court, and we have heard a number of criticisms at the Constitutional Court and not respecting the independent institution which, which was precedentd in Croatian history, suspended the entire law of 563 articles, or is at the same time a complete failure of the Assembly and parliamentary representatives or democratic proceedings in general when the government and the ministry dare to send the same law to the procedure once again even though the Constitutional Court suspended it? Does the Parliament really want, for the first time in history, to be based on Article 561.zakon, which is before you, absurdly and legally impossible to renegotiate the 2003 Family Law, or do you want the Parliament to abolish the Constitutional Court's decision and, by adopting this new law, almost identically to the previous one, make a groundless assessment of the constitutionality of the previous one? Is the message to the ruling parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public, yet we will vote this law no matter what the Constitution of the court, Croatian citizens, NGOs or anyone else thinks because we have most hands in the Parliament and we hold all the power and we can do whatever we want and we are stronger than all of you? Since it is practically the same text of the law, almost all the remarks we have made in the debate on the final proposal for this failed law when it was discussed in the Assembly before could be said now. Of course, that doesn't make sense, but of course if someone wants to check what we thought about it says in the stenogram of the Parliament's session. I will mention only one aspect of this bill that we would all simply have to think about, especially in these difficult times of recession and indifference, unless we trust the vice president of Greece that we have come out of recession, so that because of the well-being we've sailed into, we don't have to worry anymore that this law will create new costs, namely, thousands of people who are completely deprived of their business skills will need to be artificially deprived of their partial depravity. Each such procedure will cost about 5,000 kuna. The law will also cause a number of other costs, however, the cost of this law for the state budget cannot be found or assessed at all because the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has denied, although it has been mandatory for both the public and the Parliament to demonstrate to the public the impact of the rules or form of the PFU on the cost of implementing the law, and in the introductory part of the draft law in the section of the assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of the law, it does not specify how much funds will be needed to implement this law but is easily said that the funds are secured in the state budget. Today, in its debate, it would primarily focus on a number of procedural errors and illegal procedures that the ministry or government has made in connection with the bill before you, which is why it will certainly be challenged before the Constitutional Court again if such a law is passed. As regards the same law, which was speeded up in an incredibly short period of time, the decision of the Constitutional Court to suspend the application of the Family Law adopted in 2014 came into force on 16 January this year, and the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth already published the first draft of the new law on 4 February, so in just 13 working days. Although the Commissioner for Information said that the public debate was less than 30 days against the legal provision and the purpose of the consultation, the public debate on this bill was illegal only 15 days until 15 February 2015. In addition, the adoption of a new Family Law was not announced in the plan of consulting the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth on draft laws for 2015, which was published on 23 January this year and was also against the law. Although the regulations oblige the proponents to carry out the debate first on the issues of the law that the ministry intends to adopt, it first tried to avoid it against the law, and following a public warning, they did, in parallel, carry out this real debate at the same time on the issues and on the very text of the law. Therefore, there is still a lack of respect for the procedure which should be one of the fundamental foundations of the rule of law. In the period from 10th to 19th of this year, even three public debates on the same legal matter on Family Law were therefore illegal. After such, I repeat, the illegal four called public hearings the law was obtained by letters and figures in three (3) working days, and therefore that regulation can be entered into the Guinness Book of Records as stated by one respected law professor. The draft rules on 323 pages with 562 articles were made in only 6 days. For comparison, the Germans wrote their civil code from the beginning of the 19th century for 20 years, and it is still valid today with certain changes. Obviously, our current government and ministry are incomparably more successful and capable than poor Germans, who took so long to create their own law. It should also be noted that after such unlawfully conducted alleged public debates, the ministry did not accept more than 90% of the public's proposals. Despite the legal obligation, they did not explain why certain proposals were not accepted and for those who did, perhaps they would have been better off if they hadn't. At least the way they did it. In a public debate, one government body, 4 legal entities with public authority, one representative of the church, 5 associations and 19 natural persons appeared. A total of 315 proposals show that the ministry has been accepted 30 times, two times partially accepted and even 268 times dispensed. Until 15 proposals came out at all even though it was mandatory. It is incomprehensible that the ministry has rejected even 76 proposals from social workers and all 13 proposals from 8 lawyers involved in family law. Moreover, the public is not presented with all the evidence, so 14 or fifths of them even, while some are just roughly convinced. Obviously, the ministry believes that it does not have to stick to the procedure at all, and that the assistant minister at the public presentation of the Family Law on 25 February of this year said again: "This is no longer the time for professional debates, these are things we cannot stick to strictly prescribed procedures.". In conclusion, I must say that what is happening with the Family Law is truly a twilight of the legislation in Croatia and the escalating proof of the total domination of the government, in fact the government's rule of law, a completely depraved understanding of the concept of legislation, of absolute contempt for all the Croatian public and institutions of this state, such as the Constitutional Court and a complete lack of responsibility by the ruling. HDZ will, of course, be against this proposal and... We hope that all other colleagues too understand the perilousness of the possible adoption of such a law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114948	Thank you, Vice President. We've got replicas, but we've got one breach of the Rules of Procedure. So first we're going to hurt the Rules of Procedure, colleague Peja Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable colleague Reiner, vice president of this House, has, in his conduct, violated the provision of Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in such a way as to deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Parliament. One of the general rules of conduct, not only in Parliament but in society, is to tell the truth. The esteemed colleague of the House made a harsh lie when he said that the public debate on this bill lasted 14 days as it was the correct fact that the public debate on this law lasted from 9 April 2015 until 12 May 2015. Elemental mathematics in the first grade of primary school can determine that it is 33 days. The fact presented by counterpart Reiner is precisely aimed at demeaning the government's representatives, and I am protesting the most strongly. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114950	Thank you very much, very much, fellow coat of arms. Since I can't verify from this table whether these are correct, I expect from the deputy minister when she speaks, I can't qualify for her to have been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And the practice of speech by fellow MPs and MPs has and has been very much false, for therefore I do not think there has been any damage to the Rules of Procedure because each representative or representative is responsible for the matter. I hope you're satisfied with the answer, if you're not referring to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Now we'll start with the replicas, Gordana Sobol, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Reiner, I'm going to show myself to the part that you have repeated several times in your debate on behalf of the club that the government, that the past Family Law has been counter-constitutional, has been declared anti-constitutional. I ask you to read the Constitutional Court's solution of A-Z, or at least only parts of the jump, and you will see that nowhere in that solution does it appear that the Family Law is unconstitutional, we are talking about the law that was passed in 2014. Because if that were the case, the Constitutional Court would, in accordance with the powers they have under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, abolish the Family Law. The Constitutional Court suspended the family law that was precedentd. And what is true in any article of the Constitution, nor in the Constitutional Court Act, is this simply not possible. It is possible to put out of force certain acts, i.e. provisions of a certain law if they prove to be not in conformity with the Constitution. And the Constitutional Court has not completed at all the procedure of assessing the constitutionality of certain provisions of this law and has simply said it will now be suspended, and until we determine whether this Family Law in certain parts of the Constitution is in conformity with the Constitution we will apply the 2003 law nicely and then lead to complete legal confusion about what is applicable, which is not applicable, what is done under the new Family Law. And among other things, the question arises, what about all those laws that we have passed in the meantime on the harmonisation of certain laws in accordance with the passed Family Law, and this is not about that family law being declared against the constitution. It's just not true and don't say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114952	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please welcome
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the fact remains that this law was in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court would not suspend it. So we can now make no conclusions, but that's a fact, so it's a completely undeniable fact. And it is also a fact that the story of what was later passed laws that were not in line with what had to be done, forgive the problem of such laws being passed. Why were they violently brought in when it appeared to be a whole series of inconsistencies? I'm asking a very justified question that I'm returning to you right now, which is why they've been brought up and there have been problems and there's been a number of times that there are disagreements. However, by force, they mostly passed new laws regardless, I repeat once again, to dissension. Couldn't wait, couldn't it have been cleared up and then brought them in and agreed with each other? That is the problem of this home because this home brings a series of laws that are incompatible with each other, and every time it is warned it is waved by hand and voted and then, of course, don't be surprised that we have a series of non-compliant laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114954	Thank you, too. Romana Jerkovic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114955	Thank you very much. Comrade Reiner, you tell your colleague that it couldn't wait yet, so you've waited eight years, eight years, and my question has been provoked to you by your debate as a whole is the following. From 2004 to 2011, it was two mandates, you had countless opportunities to join the reform of family legislation, but you didn't do it and I don't understand why. And now I'm asking you, tell the Croatian public why you didn't do it because it was perfectly clear to you that changes are necessary. It was clear to you that it was clear. You were aware that the existing Family Law does not ensure the full protection of children as well as of the person under custody. You were also aware that the existing Family Law was not in line with international standards. So tell us why you didn't do anything to prevent the injustices that were happening, to prevent the illogicalities that were happening, absurdities. Do you know that at the end of the second term you have brought a strategy for the development of the social care system in the Republic of Croatia from 2011 to 2016 in which you recognise that the state of family and legal protection, I quote this, children and adults, family members under care in the Republic of Croatia is not satisfactory and that reform is necessary. In other words, you understand that it was urgent to roll the sleeves and pass a new Family Law according to the time we live in, in accordance with the time in which we live, in accordance with the needs that it imposes, however, you do nothing. I have my own vision of why that is. Don't do anything because you don't have the reform capacity for it, but I'm interested in you telling me why it was like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114956	Time, colleague Jerkovic. Thank you. Replicate response, Vice President Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114957	Thank you very much. We're not talking about capacities. I don't want to go down to that level of communication. However, I will answer you very clearly why. The law was passed in 2004. One of the problems of the Croatian state, one of the problems of your government and your majority, is that it changes the laws as pocket towels, paper towels, which are changing the same laws within 4 to 5 months, which you have changed by 4 to 5 times already in your term of office. This is a problem of legal uncertainty. When the law was passed in 2004, of course it took time to see if the law and the segments needed to be improved. And when there was a debate here in this home, I have to remind you because obviously you don't know, you don't want to remember, you forget, etc., we pointed out that first, we think that the law should be improved in 2004 but that it could be improved, that it shouldn't have passed a new law, that it could be completed and improved, rather than passed a new law. However, when we pointed out the failures of that version of the law we advocated as one compromise, as a wish of goodwill to let it go into the third reading, let it be done. You turned it down. So what are we talking about today, then? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114958	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114959	Today, we need to talk about children, not about someone's vanity and conflicts. You're saying this is a disastrous law, that the government, the ministry, is resolutely accounting with the Constitutional Court. The profession said, the former Supreme Court president says the public Constitutional Court, and it is not the only one, the Constitutional Court has rightly taken the role of legislator. Shouldn't we be defending the basic role here, which is that we're the main political and legislative body? He says further, therefore there is no constitutional basis, which is why the people of the Constitutional Court themselves are telling you, saying there is no legal constitutional provision for making such a decision. You're saying the entire lawyer in the profession was against that law. A whole series of lawyers from the profession were in favour, but their voice was ignored. And I've been a lawyer myself for 20 years and being a parent to make my own children, that's not even an enemy can make the blackest one an enemy. My husband killed his wife in front of me after the hearing. No one could protect her, and he was planning on having children, but they didn't find themselves there because it wasn't his will. Well, I'm right to talk about it from that point of view. We have had and we have abolished, and with this we get a modern Family Law that will prevent all institutions from manipulating children. You say this is twilight, and I ask you why you call dawn twilight and dusk at dawn. So what kind of time do you call it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114960	Thank you. Vice President Zeljko Reiner's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114961	Thank you very much. So, of course, I'm not completely clear on your mindbook because I don't know how this law could, say, prevent some villain from killing his wife and children. Therefore, such beautiful formulations as you use as arguments, I'm afraid, of course, as usual, are completely missed. It's interesting that you said that the voice of the lawyers that were for this law is not heard. So why can't that voice be heard? Well, they were for that law, they have your support. They've got media behind them, they've got you behind them. So that suddenly their voice is not heard, and the voice of those who were against this law is heard and ignored and not even answered by the ministry, let alone by their remarks. So let's be serious and use our arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114962	Thank you. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114963	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, of course you agree to this constitutional court suspension of the entire law, but I can say that there has been legal confusion now. Why? Because the Constitutional Court's solution is not really resolved to the issue of individual acts, when you look at court decisions, etc. which have been passed, which have become powerful, implemented under this law, the Family Law of 2014. And now the question is how will enforce the powerful and executive decisions that have been made by the basis of the law, and they mean continuous enforcement. This may also concern the decisions of the Centre for Social Care relating to the supervision of parental care, etc. It's also a questionable legal force to rule on divorce because when you look at a court ruling, it's a power of power. However, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, everything is now suspended temporarily. Therefore, whether a new case can be conducted since it is already a decision of power. So it's really about one legal chaos right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114964	Thank you. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114965	Thank you very much. If this is about legal chaos, then I have to counter the question, and why has it forced the adoption of sublegal acts related to a law that was known to have been suspended? What's the logic in that? That's one thing. However, speaking of legal chaos, let us take an example of this bill. Therefore, Article 562 states that it will enter into force on 1 September 2015. As this law goes in two readings, and we all know that we still have only a few days until the Parliament's summer release, please explain to me. That won't cause any legal chaos. This bill states that he will enter into force in 1.9, and we know that we will not be able to have another reading until that time. What are we talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114966	Ante Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114967	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, one remark to you because a colleague of the coat of arms has abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. The suspension of the 2014 Family Law came on 16 January 2015 and the ministry published its first draft of a new law on 13 working days already on 4 February. Warned... debate on the topics, etc. That didn't happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That this is another one in a series of actually one boastful manipulative marifiers of this government fellow Reiner also speak of people of the profession, in fact with the Department of Family Law of the Law, from the very cathedrals who say: "The passing of a new Family Law while the assessment of the constitutionality of the last year represents a certain kind of violence against the profession, science and democracy." Furthermore, I quote: "The 2015 Family Law proposal can already be considered constitutionally unacceptable. This is the result of the fact that democratic principles are not respected, which does not respect the rule of law and violates the profession, the Constitutional Court and the practice. He is deeply changing many family relations, destroying established court practice and so far the knowledge of judges, lawyers, social care workers and ordinary citizens, which is why he is the most expensive and inadmissible experiment in which children will suffer most." Is there anything more to say about this family law proposal? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114968	Thank you. Before I give you my word, allow my colleague Babic. A fellow coat of arms raised a tile according to the Rules of Procedure. I let him say what it was about. However, you have now injured Article 238 in your statement. Rules of Procedure. Not today, not today, not in the previous, not in any session, I haven't heard the boast and the marriquetluk and you've accused us here, you probably haven't thought of any. ... Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear it.]] But that's true, so you hurt Article 238. Rules of Procedure. Let's not do this! I don't think it's a subject, it's not a time, and I'm not here to be honest until now I haven't heard you in such an interpretation. I'm asking you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Vice President Reiner's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114969	... Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] [[Invader Batinić: Vice President microphone.]] The fact is that you mentioned inconceivable, which is that a whole series of top legal authorities had serious objections to that law. They're completely ignored, they're all completely ignored. Therefore, it was written by the ministry that certain provisions of the Family Law are unclear in some parts of the law, and in this sense there is room for minor language-explanatory additions in the text of the law in question to remove doubts and ambiguities that have arisen in its interpretation. This was the response of the ministry to a series of top legal experts from Family Law who made legitimate remarks. It's probably considered to be all of these people underprivileged. These are persons who physically, which were legally challenged by the Family Law of 2014. A series of professors from the Department of Family Law not only in Zagreb but also in Rijeka and Split who agreed with a number of the thematics of the challengers, various advisers, judges of the Constitutional Court who concluded that legal certainty is so threatened that it is necessary to suspend the Family Law from 2014 in full. So, they were probably all completely wrong or completely uninformed or completely incompetent or completely out of line to try to intervene in this law with their observations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114970	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Reiner, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, you pointed out and pointed to problems. And we want to say the same thing, what bothers us is what you said about contempt of the Constitutional Court and humiliation of the Constitutional Court in the Republic of Croatia. But here's the lady assistant when she's in her address, and you talked about it, you said there were only 10 counts of divorce. But sometime by February 26th, only with three courts, Honorable colleague Reiner was accepted 67 divorce lawsuits, 12 being dismissed and you know why? Because it's the kind of misunderstanding that even the judges didn't know how to do it anymore, so they suspended it. So 67 on three municipal courts small. Now, for the application of this Family Law that Mrs. Assistant has been talking about all along, it is clear that no conditions are provided. And that is clearly what the profession points to. Both social workers and psychologists and all those involved not only in working with children but also in working with adults. Because it's not enough to be just a graduate lawyer and pass a judicial exam to be a guardian, right? You said there were eight guardians and so far we have 800 cases. Under this law, every single one of these guardians needs to have a special conversation with the child. So I'm curious now whether, academic Rainer, it's impossible for eight guardians in particular to talk to 800 children, the mahogany is about children with psychological problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114972	Thank you. Your time, Comrade twilight, is up. I believe Vice President Reiner has understood the replica. Here you go, Vice President, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the distinguished colleague of the twilight, of course, is one of the problems we face when we try to look at all the dimensions of this law, this bill of law, and possible consequences. Let's just say there's money for it at this point. How can that happen and at what speed? How, if there are such personnel on the market, can they really be employed within a few months, etc., etc. However, what seems important to me you mentioned at the beginning of your replica and that should be emphasized. The question that the adoption of this new Family Law can actually impair itself, and if we bring it in, we will dissuade that the Constitutional Court will measurely complete the process of assessing the constitutionality of the Family Law of 2014. And that should certainly be made clear, said the colleagues from the position just a little bit differently. But yes, I agree with you, and I agree with colleagues who have previously, in a negative context, commented on some of my statements, yes. However, you must be aware, and you are aware because you said that if such a law were to be passed, it would be interrupted by the Constitutional Court procedure. And where would we be then? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114974	Thank you. Sun Head, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114975	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Reiner, this law that is before us, I would call another in a series of methods of trial and error or experimentation that keeps repeating itself and coming from the government. This law is so modern that nobody will actually be able to implement it. He's so modern that here's the people even the lawyers and the experts who have to work with him say that they're not as modern as this law is modern. What am I saying? So, enough experiments with the laws that come to us from SDP and partners. And when they come, then the government itself doesn't know how many amendments they're trying to fix. This guy wasn't even like that. In almost four years, the only product that came out of this ministry was this and it was absolutely declared unusable. I think it would be much smarter if this ministry had directed its forces to, for example, the most intelligent policy, so we would not testify that just last year, for example, over 11 thousand were more dead in our country than born, that the demographic image of Croatia collapses, that our villages die, that we have more problems, rather than that the ministry has dedicated itself to the experiment that Minister Opačić must have written 562 articles of the law, and it doesn't matter that absolutely no one will be able to implement them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114976	Thank you. Answer, Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Glavak, I certainly must agree with this other part of your exposure that the primary task of all of us, and of course, especially this ministry, is to act in the sense of preventing the white plague that really rules Croatia, and we can ignore it however we want to ignore it, and it is clearly ignored, but it is one reality and it would certainly be work for this particular ministry. However, when we talk about this law, I would like to be constructive and no matter what I think it is, it could probably be improved, but certainly not by changing a few words in it and it is publicly declared that some minor cosmetic changes have been made, but that law should be seriously, conceptually changed. And it's not a matter of this law a few sentences and a few sentences, the problem of this law is confusion on the one hand, on the other hand, prejudice, some subsolence, the provisions that are repeated, some of the provisions that are contradictory to each other, and that will result if this law is adopted in such a way that it is inapplicable in practice and, of course, cause incomparably bigger problems than we have now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114978	Thank you, too, for the word of the Deputy Minister, on behalf of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114979	Well, here's a few, thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, here's a few things in a row. I think I'll get a good grip. As regards the reaction of the esteemed Grbin representative to the duration of the public debate. The MP was right about the information he gave here, but it's very easy to verify, and I'm surprised that it hasn't been checked in these benches by now. In addition to the law, the document, the report's document on consultation with the interested public, is just attached for the reason that the MPs are asking us to read it. Thus, it was not a great philosophy from which counseling was determined and how long it took. With regard to the depriving of business ability in full, that is, the observation that the skills to determine the remaining business capacity are very expensive. If it was very expensive, and that's why we planned the funds over the next five years, we can't, we don't have the financial capacity to subdue it in one year, but without skill, it's impossible to determine the rest of the business capacity. But what is particularly important here in March this year before the UN Disabilities Committee in Geneva defended our delegation on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. You see these provisions and these intentions are particularly commended by the board. Yes, we are aware that protecting human rights and protecting the rights of people with disabilities costs but these are things, you just have to go ahead. And on several occasions by various MPs here it's said that this is about cosmetic changes. Yeah, and I said it was about little changes, it's about nomotechnical explicit changes, correct mistakes, if you really want and it's about cosmetic changes like you said, but it didn't have to anymore. Structured that the cosmic changes, according to the institutes he carries but no longer needed. Because if we thought the law wasn't right in 2014, we wouldn't have let it go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114980	Thank you, too. Replica Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said yourself, you made a few minor changes because you're convinced that this law is perfect. And you didn't want to listen to the public, or the experts, or the parliamentary representatives, and you insisted on it, and that's what we tried to do to the whites. And when you say it says what it's like in the date attachment, it doesn't say anything about it. There's no date related in the attachment, and those dates I said were absolutely accurate. What you're showing is not what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114982	Thank you. Please. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, Nansi Tyreli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114983	I'd like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed deputy associate, colleague and colleague. I can say that I'm really very, very sad when I listen to a fight like this and it's about an extremely important one, I would dare say maybe the most important law for all of us because it concerns each of us, from birth to death because at one point we're a child, at one point we're a parent and through this Family Law we really come at a moment each of us to say so to its users and we have to understand it. There's been legal chaos and it's a fact. So when the Constitutional Court suspended the Family Law in 2014, there was really legal chaos and part of the things that were settled under the law of 2014. It remained somewhere in the air and now no one knows what it is or how it is. However, the answer to why the legal chaos came to be found, sought far before. I will just remind myself, when we were in this home discussing this famous family law in 2014 then there was in the small council thematic session of the four working bodies of the Parliament where there were indeed social workers, and lawyers, and professors, and doctors, so there were all possible profiles of experts then at that public debate or on that round table, for hours the new Family Law was discussed and what was an interesting profession pointed to the failures and problems between the first and second readings of the law. They made clear and concrete proposals on how to improve the law and no one was against it at the time that this law was actually passed because this law was better than we had in the application of in 2003 because of the protection of children and persons under custody. We all agreed that the law is necessary, that the law is necessary, that changes are necessary, but at the moment that the profession has specifically and well warned and made its proposals, the minister has become angry at everyone who dared to say any proposal outside of what was in the law and called everyone to choose to learn to read the book. And that's what caused these people to have a very, very big disappointment and a very big aversion. And now that we talk about this bill, we come into a situation where on the one hand we have a professor of rights that are on the left, and on the other hand we have professors of rights who are on the right hand side and now we're fighting which professor of law has a better right and he's more right about the Family Law and the opinion of the professor of that same right we don't respect. But if we're protecting children then we have to understand that all these teachers are rights to our children who are in their colleges to teach that same right and not to look now if the law professor pointed to certain legal failures in the bill whether it's left or right. This professor has his credibility, he works at a certain university and teaches our children. And if we don't think that this professor is competent, then the first thing we have to do to protect the children, we need to get that professor out of this family law department because otherwise he's going to learn everything else wrong. So that's where this legal chaos comes from. What concerns me now is this public debate. So colleague Reiner's data that she was and it's written in the media, and if that's not true, then I'm the deputy minister begging you to deny it here. So, as for the public debate and the failure in this section, the public debate on the thesis was not opened first, and then the public debate on the draft law was opened, and the public debate was opened first, so after the warning, the public debate was closed, and a parallel debate on the the thesis and parallel debate on the draft bill was opened, which is not good, so it is not good, because first of all, you as legislator of the law must get some public thesis, it is democracy that you can more difficult to implement in this bill of yours. The next thing I'm very concerned, today at the previous debate, we've been thinking about whether it's the State's review in making some decisions or someone else's fault, and now we're discussing it, and you deputies are attacking the Constitutional Court that suspended the bill, and now we're not good with the Constitutional Court. Thirdly, in the remarks you received, you received 14 seems to me to be the remarks of the Ombudsman for children on this bill, none of which has been adopted. Then I'm asking myself a question, why do we need that child counsel if we don't know about her remarks or her wife, or if we don't need that lawyer then or if we don't need her. You didn't accept the pleas of a lawyer for gender equality. I don't know the exact information now, I think I might have somewhere and written down, 76 proposals from the social care center staff, and yet nothing is accepted to put into law. I'm now talking to the deputy, that's what the media says, if it's not true let's choose to deny it, let the Croatian Parliament finally say what's true or what's not true because we confuse people, confuse the public and then finally we all ask ourselves what's wrong and what went wrong. So, we don't listen to legal experts, we don't listen to lawyers, we don't listen to welfare workers, we don't listen to judges, we don't listen to lawyers. It is one atmosphere that the ministry brought everything in 2, 3 days here is a law that has 562 articles passed in 3 days which implies that there was no public listening at all. But what I am most interested in right now and I am not a lawyer would ask you to explain it to me, so the Constitutional Court suspended the Family Law in 2014, but the solution did not declare the law against the constitution, so the solution is still waiting, right? Now we're passing a new law that's almost identical to that law that the court suspended with some minor changes. We will vote this law and we already have the same set ready which gave constitutionality to the Constitutional Court of the Constitutional Court assessment of the constitutionality of the Family Law in 2014. Everyone stands ready to make the same request for an assessment of the constitutionality of this Family Law 2015. So what happens if this law is the same, if we now have such legal chaos, and we have it, is it necessary for us now to pass this law by an emergency procedure until we get a decision of the Constitutional Court to see what it is, if it is something illegal, in that law? If it is not against the constitution, I believe that the Constitutional Court should suspend the suspension and return that law to force. Now we're going to have two of the same laws, one suspended, one of the same, identical, and we're about to get into big, big problems. We're going fast, I think we're going too fast, I think we're doing something, we're doing something just like that, because it's like we have to do something. I would ask you deputies just to answer my question, why is the adoption of this law so urgent if we can apply the law as the Court said in 2003? Do we have any information when the Constitutional Court will make a final decision on the constitutionality of this 2014 law? I'm afraid that the same thing will happen to us and that in a very, very short time we will be in the same situation and that this law we now have will have to be drastically changed if the Constitutional Court considers that this law has many, many elements that are unconstitutional. It's him who scares me most honestly. As for the law and today we had on the Committee on Health, you received amendments and I really ask you to seriously consider them until the second reading, I will not repeat them now, they are very important, to seriously consider them, to take into account that the implementation of such a law, so take into account all those situations that are really happening on the ground. Because what counterpart Antičević-Marinović said before is extremely difficult situations, it is very, very difficult by law to cover all those situations that happen in courts, in social care centres, in peacemakers, in law offices or anywhere else. What we need to think about is paying particular attention to really protecting children, having less trauma than these discussions, domestic violence and everything else. But I think that these amendments that you've got today, I think they're 20, and something's going on that everyone's going on about really those problems that are actually going on about them are people who are facing them every day. Here, please, once again, I urge you to seriously consider them and try to answer me really for these personal misunderstandings I have because here I am afraid that the chaos of applying the Family Law will just arise, that this is really just the tip of the ice dream that is threatening us. Let's not be intrusive, let's not be hard, listen to ourselves, listen to the profession. The legislator has the right to adopt, has a vision, has a goal. But just to avoid situations like this, to avoid any personal conflicts, here's to hearing each other, and the laws that we're making are really on the trail of good for man, and the clue that they can be implemented and simple, and not to philosophize what is in a particular article and how this particular article, or this particular law, is implementing. And the bottom line is that in public, you haven't published the names of the people who worked on this other law, and you know that by the Law of Public Information, you're also obliged. Therefore, it is some ingenuity that does not bring, does not lead to good. Publish these people who did this law, Family Law 2015, I don't think it's a big deal, and I think we're going to be able to calm down some of the negative tensions. We need to talk, we need to be open and you in the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth in such an extremely demanding and serious and difficult portfolio must be an open and transparent team more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114984	Thank you. Before we move on to replicas, you probably predicted colleagues of Tyrelli, this is the first reading of the law, because at one point you said by emergency procedure. Well, I said, I'm obliged to give an explanation. And there's a business possibility and three readings so I believe they will. The first replica of Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114985	You are colleagues in the good part, especially where you give your general picture and so that such a bill that primarily has for the interests of children who are first and can agree with you. But I don't agree with you when you say here, when you speak to the deputy lady and you say, "Here, you've attacked the Constitutional Court." No, that's what you told us at the very beginning, not colleagues, I believe that's what came out of you. The Constitutional Court attacked the Croatian Parliament, the Constitutional Court attacked the government and the Constitutional Court attacked the resolution ministry. And we are all authorized here and obliged to defend our role as legislator. That the Constitutional Court has found that any provision or law is anti-constitutional and that it should be abolished immediately. It wasn't until the day of today, but it suspended him against the constitution and against the law. That's never happened before. That's what many experts have said. When you say we don't respect you, you don't respect your waist. This suspended Family Law, it was attended by Professor Dr. Ivana Milas, current attorney for children who has doctored just from the scientific branch of family law. Professor Branka Rešetar worked, too. A whole series of the same lawyers that helped. And they're all non-professionals on HDZ 'cause they don't smoke in their dicks. For if it is until the Constitutional Court, then it is their righteousness; so they think, and so they hold and humiliate them, the additional constitutional judgment. And they expect it from him. They obviously expect some services from him since they chose constitutional judges. And it is embarrassing how HDZ behaves, but it does not justify the Constitutional Court that it has made such a decision for which Krunoslav Olujic and many of the professional public are unprecedented, that such a decision is unprecedented and shameful.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114986	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114987	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter I thought that you, personally as vice president of this Croatian Parliament, would warn MP Anticevic that by such an attack on the Constitutional Court, I would say destroy the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. It is unremembered that in the Croatian Parliament one of the representatives is making such a verbal attack on the Constitutional Court. Unremembered. I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114988	Comrade twilight, I must interrupt you... Please don't throw it away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114989	Well, I'm also glad because I respect this Croatian Republic I live in. If you don't respect... I work and I live, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114990	My colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114991	And I respect the Croatian Parliament's institution, and then the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114992	Comrade twilight, there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. No respect for the Constitutional Court's decision is one category...... Allow me, when I speak, be patient and listen. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] To not act according to the Constitutional Court or legislator's decision, it is against the constitution, and to state its opinion on the Constitutional Court why this would be prohibited. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I say there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure. You, unless you're satisfied, have a business opportunity. Will you use it? ... You will. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm asking you to enter the record. We're moving on with the replicas. Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić. Excuse me, excuse me, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114993	Here's a thank you. I think we have a much bigger problem than our family law problem. So here, from day to day, we open up some new problems, and we suspect everyone, we suspect everything and institutions just as if no one was doing their job, we kind of painted everything. As for the working group that worked on the law, I mentioned to the deputy working group about this Family Law in 2015, so we know the Working Group in 2014 but I say that there is a lot of dissatisfaction about who was in the Working Group for this Act 2015. And when we talk about the D.A., the current Ombudsman for children, so in the previous law of 2014, it seems to me that she gave me 84 amendments if I'm not mistaken, or 81, here somewhere, so that the new attorney for the children who came, would have pulled them all away, so there was no amendment, and that she was now, from the law of 2014 to 2015, in a situation that she was just being, so she was a child lawyer and she gave 14 amendments to this Family Law in 2015, so neither of them was adopted. I'm warning you, we have a lawyer report here in the Assembly. Every year they make recommendations, write what has to be done and what needs to be done. If we really want to take these defences seriously and as independent bodies that can control and point out the failures we have and their recommendations to follow, I really see no reason why the Ombudsman's opinion or proposal for children for 14 proposals has been adopted since 14 proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114994	Thank you. Next replica, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Nancy, you have established what is true, which is that this year 2014 is a law that has been passed that was actually a greater protection of children which, of course, is the goal of this government or this law, and also a person under custody. You also said that you're very sad when you listen to bickering which, of course, we all are. You also said your observation about what the minister said in that stands or public debate we had in the Croatian Parliament. Now I'm going to read you something I found on the portal from a reader, a television viewer. I'm watching a discussion last night about a new family law suspended by the Constitutional Court. I'm neither a lawyer, nor in personal problems I needed the help of the law, but I have common sense, I have eyes, what I saw last night were two camps of heavily-disputed people who leapt into each other's words, by their throats and outvoted themselves. Laws are written for people, and they would have to be humane to help. What's the law for if it's inconclusive? If he's good at what his chances are, if the professor who's been editing those laws up to now said she'll use all her influence to tear him down because she's not invited to the team this time. So where in all this people whose lives depend on this law, where children are, where they are smart, human and effective solutions. Are we going to stumble forever on these disgusting personal interests, aren't human fates at all, is it always important in everything who is a member or a sympathiser of a political party? That's what citizens think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114996	Thank you, too. The answer of my colleague Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114997	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Shimac-Bonac, I agree, you and I and I, and I mean anyone who wants to get along well with the opinion of a viewer or a reader, I don't know what you said, what you said, what I've been trying to underline all along, the laws really, really, if something has to be implemented, they have to be life-saving, and they have to be in favor of a man because every law we make in this House really concerns someone and affects someone's destiny. And as Parliamentarians, we have the responsibility to pass laws for the benefit and measure of Croatian citizens. All of this is happening, this rhetoric that we have where we really have all the time we're outsmarting who's stronger, who's on the team, who's not on the team, if I'm on the team, then I'm good, if I'm not on the team, then I'm not good at it, so I'm gonna do everything I'm gonna do to tear down something and I mentioned those family law teachers and their obligation and their duty would be to always suggest and always propose that they're only the best that they can be from their own knowledge, and I think they'd only then get that reputation that they have to get, and not like this to break the laws just because someone else brought them. So, arguments, facts yes. But because of some political colors, I think it's not only dangerous, but very, very disappointing for anyone who listens and looks at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114998	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u114999	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Tyrelli, I'd like to sign your hearing. I agree that even when a debate like this is justified, it is saddened to get unargumented and forceful arguments on the other hand. And we here at the HDZ Club and in our debate agreed that the 2003 law as well as the '98s had to be changed for seventy-seven years. For example, the '98 Law. The revolutionary law was family. And we agree it's also the 2003 law. But what we disagree with is the way it's done, it's not respecting the waist. I can't trust just one former professor, just one opinion. I want to hear more opinions, and what I want to hear most is waist. And what you're saying is that if you don't respect the lawyer's opinions and suggestions, what does that mean? Is this ego so great, so powerful that we'll disguise everything in front of ourselves, that we can say everything we can do no matter what others say, and to that extent really what is offensive, and least expected of all by the former minister to insult the constitutional order, here's to that extent.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115000	Thank you. Here's your answer, colleague Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115001	Yeah, so it's not, I never look at it personally now that you say waist. For me is the profession and professor of Family Law and that officer at the Centre for Social Care and Judges, so in the courts and lawyers who deal with them, whose speciality is Family Law. So it's for me someone who knows because the family law happens every day. Every day people break up, every day kids lose their parents, every day someone leaves those same kids, every day some kids adopt, every day people get married. So this is what I said that this Family Law really applies to everyone and that is why it is necessary and therefore it is necessary to have quality public debates, so open that the ministry has, that it respects these deadlines, that it respects this democratic procedure and that everyone who is interested in this Family Law, who thinks they can and knows to give their proposal, give their suggestion, and then the Ministry responds transparently and qualityly why someone's proposal did not accept it, so either accepts it or accepts it. And then it's up to us, and it's not just for us Assembly deputies, but for everyone to see who suggested it and why the ministry argued something refused. Only then can we see a picture of whether something, that real picture of whether it's the right ministry or if it's right that someone who suggested something and the ministry here decided that they would simply not accept it. So if there's no transparency then these things happen to us where we give space to the pure marketing of the personality of certain people painted in party colors and then we fight who's stronger and who's more powerful over the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115002	Thank you. Gordana Sobol, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115003	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tyrelli, I must say that in the part where you are both concerned and disappointed by that kind of bickering, disagreements within professions, associations, individuals, these or those, classification. I agree with the classification on one side or the other, that it definitely harms not only this law but also the debate on any other law. However, since you mentioned the remarks, so many of the objections they have, I will now limit myself to our defense attorneys, or associations. I'd like to remind all of us. For example, the Ombudsman for children, all the current reports by all the counselors for children pointed to shortcomings in family legislation and pointed to the need to adopt institutes within the Family Law that he had prescribed, passed the Family Law which was essentially passed and prescribed in this Family Law. There's little time for me to count them all now. I think the Ombudsman for children also repeated this in her latest report, i.e. all of this can be read out of them, and in particular she warned about the harm of making a decision of the Constitutional Court and the consequences it has on, primarily the category of citizens. They're children she takes special care of. When we talk about the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, I see from the Health Report that she is satisfied with part of the remarks that are included in this new proposal now, that one part can still be agreed on, and as regards the associations of the primarily autonomous women's house, I have now seen these remarks and I must say that I am this surprised because this time, unlike when they had observations and we adopted something completely new that parts of the Law on protection against domestic violence are transferred to the Family Law. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] That's absolutely not what we're talking about so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115004	The answer of my colleague Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115005	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Sobol, we agree on a lot of things. So, what I didn't think was that now everything anyone suggested should be adopted, far from that, there is exactly the responsibility of the ministry or the legislator to evaluate what is good, which is not good. What I've been warning you all along is the way that it went into everything that went with the second bill that it wasn't good. So when we say that the public writes parallel to this, parallel to that, that it does not write quite well quality and quite clearly, so open debate, parallel and debate on the thesis, that it does not write clearly and transparently enough that the amendments have been rejected and which is why it is rejected that causes people, then one I would say maybe in certain people it is really disappointing, and in certain people it opens up additional space that it is precisely those who want to attack that have space to attack even more. So, I'm just saying that we don't need a situation like this. We make laws the way we're prescribed by laws, let's have public debates the way we're prescribed by laws and directives, let's give the data that we're asked for, and then we just narrow down that space to get into a situation where maybe something that's good at the end of the forest doesn't see a tree because exactly what we have in law becomes irrelevant because it all comes down to some kind of personal ego against someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115006	Thank you. Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115007	Thank you very much. Comrade Tyrelli Medals always have two sides, no matter what some see only one and what they always talk about one. I personally believe that the implementation and practice, so the implementation of the Family Law in 2014 in the 4 months it has been in place, has shown that some things need to be changed. She pointed to some ambiguities, pointing to the need for some segments to be further clarified and better defined. And that's what we agree on. But also the other side of the medal says that significant positive effects have been observed in 4 months of application. I'm sorry no one's talking about it, but nobody's talking about it. And I can't agree with you when you say that the waist has been completely ignored and excluded because it's just not true, it just isn't. Who wrote the law? Who wrote the law the first and this one now, who wrote it? It was written by experts. Let's not underestimate them. The lawyers wrote theorists, lawyers practitioners, and all in the best faith. So I'm not saying that the law can't be improved, so that's what these two readings are for, which is why we have them to improve what can be improved. But the truth is, and let's say it's public, that some solutions are not acceptable to just one part of the professional public. Small, very loud, obviously and very powerful. But is that why we will discredit every attempt to make it so necessary, so much needed to improve this legislation?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115008	Thank you, colleague Jerkovic. Answer, colleague Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues precisely because we allow it, so when I mentioned the situation that happened, it was unacceptable for the minister to insult the profession in such a way. Why am I saying that? Because then he gets exactly what's going on right now, it's pure revenge. This has nothing to do with the law, and now no one's asking what's good in that law anymore, which in these four months, we've realized that there's something wrong with this law, so let's do it even more in this law. That doesn't interest anyone anymore. Exactly because of the way we behave, precisely because of what we do we get from this other side of the enemy who has few but who are very, very loud and are just doing this crowd in the 16th and this chaos that we now have. Then we come to situations that, although they are few, they can influence the judges of the Constitutional Court, so the Constitutional Court can suspend a law that is good. And in the end, this law does not really interest anyone or interest him in how he will be implemented in practice and whether someone who is divorced tomorrow because of this law will be better or worse off. That's sad. Because we didn't pass the law because the minister said the law was a lecturer, so someone read it well or didn't read it well, and then insulted the profession because the profession knows that the law isn't lecturing, it's important. Then we don't put ourselves in a position to do what we do in this second law. And when you say yes, the law was written by experts. The additional problem, we do not know which experts were working on this law on family 2015, has not been published anywhere. That's what I'm talking about. Transparency otherwise, this small group becomes extremely loud and clear because others give them room to be loud. And if the space wasn't there wouldn't be any action.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115010	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Marija Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115011	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected deputy minister with a co-worker. Family law has no doubt about the most important issues that concern primarily child protection, marriage, family and other socially sensitive groups of the population, and that is why it needs to be told very carefully with special attention to the respect of the profession as it was heard today through all discussions and those with long experience. On the basis of these assumptions, I believe that any unprofessional participation in the creation of this very important law and any unprofessional argument may have been too harshly fatal for this highly sensitive institute, therefore, the family there is a cell of every society. It is a law that should be and I believe that, as is the Deputy Minister and stressed through the prism of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights as well as the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other laws and documents. All these laws and documents in their content highlight the importance of family as the foundation of a social community that has a primarily immeasurable impact on all pores of one society, interpersonal relations and, of course, the individual himself. The modern family today is in the phase of structural changes that are seen unfortunately in the reduction of the number of family members, the changed position of women in the labour market, the increased unemployment rate and the increased number of single-parent families, the growing number of newly concluded marriages and more divorces, and nothing less important than what I want to particularly absorb the lack of services for the family as a whole. Right on the trail of this last one, so here I think of the family centers the ministry is responsible for protecting the positions of the family that she should certainly have in society. And so the existence of family centers was very, very good idea and practice. Unfortunately, I don't see those centers in that law today. They lost their legal personality and became a source of professional staff that fills the staff gaps in welfare centres. Family centres were primarily dealt with, not only by national laws or by one's whims, but by harmonising with the EU, European property and numerous international contracts, and what is very important to us through preventive and advisory work, as I have said, has proved to be very effective in practice. They did not make a administrative solution, they did not deal with the unnecessary administration that professional workers at social care centres formally buried because unfortunately it became their business, not social work where a far greater accent could be thrown away. Unlike the experts who worked in family centers. Experts who have been available to each individual, member, family, child, young person, parent, person with disabilities, child with developmental disabilities, person of older age, person with a problem of addiction, person who is a victim of violence and any other person in need. Experts who have provided their knowledge and experience with understanding, support and support to those who have sought help at family centers. So they're very desirable, especially in local communities because I'm saying this from my own experience. One of the comments is that the law is too general, it seems to me that 500 and some articles, there are 300 and some pages are not the most ideally systemised and some issues are scattered across various areas and are difficult to follow, and people from the profession are not clearly defined as in the current law, but by reading an area, for example. You have to come back several times in the divorce, look for other aspects of the divorce provision that loses time, continuity, and the possibility of error is greater. The practice, though relatively short for 4 months, has shown that it is a good part of the part that speaks of mandatory counseling before divorce, in which there are underage children. In this way, greater responsibility is placed on parents who, in the mandatory consultation procedure, resolve relationships with common children. Such regulation protects children’s rights, facilitates a decision on trust and determines the rights and duties of parents and after divorce. But what we think is not good is that the divorce process also solves property relations because this issue can lead to judicial proceedings. A divorce is an emergency nature for the sake of minor children and therefore the issue of property relations should remain special and be subsequently resolved because the traumatized condition of the child is being extended which is not good at all. To be commended is certainly part of this law that regulates the issue of custody or the institution of protection of persons with mental disorders. It's a good thing by this, to say the suspended law, a person can't completely deprive himself of his business skills but only in a part that will protect her rights. In practice, this can mean that a person will be limited to the business capacity in the part of consenting to treatment, and all other rights will have as other people, i.e. marriage, election voting, property and money, etc. This respects the human rights of persons with mental and intellectual deficits by taking away their business ability only in the essential part is left to such a person all other rights, and thus it participates in society and is not marginalised. This is in the spirit of equating the rights of persons with disabilities and conventions related to their rights. Just a few more sentences, namely how familiar the public is and informed about what the Family Law is, of course I don't have that kind of information, I have my own vision and opinion. but it is a fact that certain associations through the media have raised criticism about insufficiently guided dialogue of the profession, and they support the fact that the law has come to the assessment of constitutionality and has been suspended, thus further bringing the public into a dilemma which is right and again contributes to a division in which there is certainly no place for the family to be concerned. I believe that the intensity of all of us and the wish of all of us in the House is to pass one quality law, law without indetermination, no fail and no holes that will not have any other chance of being found at the Constitutional Court on the assessment of constitutionality. The HSU Club is of the opinion that this is the first reading, that the profession without political affection should certainly reach consensus because I cannot believe that interpretation to solve the same or common problem that we all have in Croatia could be so drastically different. Maybe between the layman and the waist yes, but within the waist certainly not or very little. And let's not be exclusive because everyone has the right to an opinion and the right to suggestions. Most will, of course, decide and respect the voice of the majority, so I think we should use less bile to address each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115012	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115013	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your debate, you mentioned family centres or that family centres are essentially abolished, but I must remind you that the status of the family centre has been resolved by the Social Care Act when they are not abolished. In fact, the family centers that existed have done their job, which is a preventive action that you said yourself, or family counseling, because I think we should all admit that given the whole situation that family centres play a big role in terms of counseling, in terms of responsible parenting, that we are essentially preventing all the events that are happening. But these family centers became part of the center or became branches of the family center at the social care center. Thus, they will continue to play a role, and all those who have not performed their role in this way will be engaged in true preventive work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115014	Thank you. Answer, here you go, colleague Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well esteemed colleagues, look, I know that they will be integrated into social care centres of course that part of the work will be done, but the family centres have played a fantastic role in the local community that I personally met and that has contributed greatly to solving the preventive action of solving all problems. Social care centres have a lot of administrative jobs. Yeah, but it's just that the family centers have come in and gone into the centers and become regular administrators again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115016	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115017	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Ilic, I agree with your debate. This is too much of a law to be an ego here in some way. And I wouldn't say that this should be about some kind of thing, before the colleague said you weren't left and right lawyers and experts because they all graduated colleges and should be professional and we should respect their opinions, respect their opinions, and all on behalf of 2 million spouses in the Republic of Croatia, 98 thousand extramarital communities, 208 thousand single parents, 800 thousand children and 19 thousand adults under care. And you're right. We also said in HDZ that the 2003 law of course needs improvements. But the way this was passed, this law, and the real ministry is showing, so I don't know what to say, the desire to disobey the other side, is startling. And within that law there's an article and you've read it is, I see you are, and you've really got some objections that we agree with that are really inconclusive, and that's what those who are in contact with and judges are saying, as well as the people of the Social Care Center say. And me, here's my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115018	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115019	Well, you know, colleagues of the twilight, when this law is a matter that should somehow be the basis of this society, cell, family is the cell of every society, that's what I said in my debate, I wouldn't share at all on either the left or the right. I don't doubt professionalism, I don't doubt the expertise of anyone, and I believe in the very interest of the ministry that the ministry has found professional people who will do this job in quality. It's not in anyone's interest to get a law that's going to be filled with holes and that someone's going to abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115020	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115021	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will begin my presentation with a quote: "I am obliged to point out that the Vice-President has acted wisely when she said that the Government will refer a new text of the Family Law to the Parliament procedure, in which it will install new or amended solutions, starting from the motionary's complaint and putting this suspended text out of force. That would be wise.". This was announced by the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in her interview in Vecernji list on 23 January 2015. It's been five months since then. 5 months in which the law was prepared, in which the law was first announced, the thesis was published, a draft was published, consultations were conducted, among other things with the Ministry of Justice, in order to resolve the doubts on procedural issues related to the law and a public debate was subsequently published for 33 days. Nothing in passing this law is as hasty as it was the first time. And watch out, colleagues and colleagues, we haven't brought it yet, nor will we bring it tomorrow when we vote on it, but we'll just return it to the government with remarks, suggestions and suggestions on how to make this law better. Now, let's just go back to the document. The bill before us follows the idea given by the President of the Constitutional Court. This is about a new law, however, which not only abolishs the suspended text of the law but also addresses a whole series of objections raised before the Constitutional Court. We won't, we won't lie, we won't pretend we don't see it now. Some of the remarks made before the Constitutional Court were both justified and I am glad for some that they were included in the final text, i.e. in this text of the law which is before us as well as those concerning the question of determining motherhood which really was not, we will probably all agree, adequately settled in the text of the law which was before the Constitutional Court. But was that enough for his suspension? I don't know, but I'll talk about it. So after I read you what the President of the Constitutional Court said, I'm going to ask you a question. What is the government responsible for? Does it leave a legal void or introduce order? I believe that the responsible Government introduces order and proposes a law which among other things, in its transitional and final provisions, in a very good way regulates and enforces certain laws on certain periods of time, as well as maintains the force and legal person who is possibly founded by the 2014 law, as it empowers the decision made under that law. It's the government's responsibility. The question of the scope of this law was further discussed. For those who understand what this law means, it contains both material and formal provisions. That is why it must be a debt because it has a material right in one place, a right that regulates a certain relationship within a family, a relationship in marriage, a relationship between a guardian about a person under custody, etc. But also this law regulates procedural provisions, proceedings before the parent, proceedings before the Social Care Centro, proceedings before the court. This law can't be shorter. Not one of our family laws, nor the law on marriage and family relations belonged to the category of short ones. We have been saying that this law addresses certain remarks in the procedure before the Constitutional Court and those of few, which the Constitutional Court itself pointed out by its own decision, I think it was a point in 769 or so. So we'll see if this is about small, small interventions. So this law, apart from paternity, solved the question of motherhood. There was no such thing in the past law. It's just a big change. Furthermore, Article 117 defines the adulthood of the child. Honestly, the issue of adulthood has also been regulated by some international contracts that the Republic of Croatia is a signator, so the question is why we have made a big name about it, but so be it in the law. Furthermore, provisions on how to enrol and warn the parent about marriage have been amended. A provision relating to the personal name of the child, a provision relating to consent for adoption, has been corrected. A provision has been added that regulates more precisely the maintenance of an extramarital partner, I think it is a good, very good provision that is in the spirit of what we have done to amend the 2014 law, and that is, we have fully equated the extramarital and marriage community in terms not only of material, not only of property, but of all other rights. In the absence of a marriage in Article 376, a life partnership was added as a reason for annulment, a relationship between certain types of procedures was arranged, etc. I've listed only one piece here, but the law has a number of changes. But I'm going to ask one other question. If we compare the comments made to the Family Law and, for example, the observations made to some other laws, let us take the 2009 Criminal Procedure Act as an example. It will be easy to determine that neither these remarks were much nor were these remarks so serious that they would question the suspension of the law. I will remind you, in 2009, the Criminal Procedure Act also had hundreds of objections to hundreds of provisions. The Constitutional Court has adopted and it seems to me that 52 provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure, a fundamental law governing a democratic society deprives someone of freedom. At the time, it was not enough for the Constitutional Court to suspend the law. The Constitutional Court has introduced a new practice. I can also accept that practice even though it is unprecedented. Okay, we've created a new precedent, but then the Constitutional Court has an ongoing obligation to suspend a certain law to resolve a transitional period, not to instruct the Government to resolve it by its provisions, which the Government is ultimately doing by this bill. Furthermore, I have already started to talk about it, and we must reiterate, this law has kept a whole series of good, positive, extremely advanced, modern solutions, liberal and left-handed. Yeah, I'm not afraid to say that. Liberal and left, because the arrangement of relations in the family is highly subject to certain ideology, and we must not run from ideology as a political party and not run away. Look at the U.S. Supreme Court verdict passed last Friday. If you read the separate opinions of certain judges, they've accused five of which I'm taking off, of liberally left ideas. Well, they are. Let them accuse us, and we can deal with it. This law makes marriage a new, more modern, more systematic divorce. In particular, and I will repeat this all the time, and I think we all have to do this, the fully equalized extramarital and marriage community, which is why Croatia has set one of the very positive examples that I am sure will be followed by other Member States of the European Union. Furthermore, this law fully respects persons, their integrity that has been taken away so far has been a full business ability, and today it will no longer be possible to do so, but we will have to define in which part of the individual is being taken away from business ability. And I think it's another big democratic step to what it cost to cost. Certain provisions on additional child protection, etc. are amended or directed. In its transitional and final provisions, the law fills in a very good way the legal gap left by the Constitutional Court and once again needs to be congratulated on the ministry in the way in which it has dealt with this problem in the transitional and final provisions. I've read it carefully, and I can't say that there's something there that should be added or taken away. It is also very well resolved on ongoing procedures, on procedures that will only begin with respect to the time period when the relationship occurred, etc. And in my opinion, it doesn't leave too much space for some interpretations and questions as to what stage anyone should be doing. Everything is clearly defined in the law. And finally, I'll take the right to talk about two things. The first one is material, and the second one is formal. The material newspaper that the Constitutional Court did not ask us for and which those who wrote the remarks also did not ask for, and I think it is extremely important is a provision that regulates who the mother of the child is. This law finally or again better say in Croatia motherhood defined in the first place that a mother is considered a woman who gave birth to a child. It's a presumption of motherhood that's been arranged this way as a subversive conjecture. We can close our eyes, we can push our heads into the sand, but motherhood must be a devastating assumption. Life goes on, it is unpredictable, and every day we witness new decisions by international courts that have jurisdiction over the Republic of Croatia. One of these decisions is the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the Meneson case, which is the subject of surrogate motherhood. We forbid it in Croatia. We can complain against it, we can attack it, but the European Court of Justice has sent word to all the countries that are members of the Council of Europe in a specific case France, that that surrogate motherhood that occurred legally in another country, in this example to the United States, must recognise on their territory because it is a fact. We can write in the law whatever we want, but we need to be able to implement this provision, and that stems from this amendment in the law. That was the formal thing I was going to say, sorry materially what I was going to say, and formally, unfortunately, my colleague Tyrell is gone, but I'm still going to give her this explanation. Public hearings last 30 days. Those 30 days, no one sits on their hands. I don't know if she's a colleague of Tyrelli, I don't know if you've had a public hearing, but I have. During the public debate, we receive comments on the daily basis. Do you think we'll wait 30 days to start processing them? No, ladies and gentlemen, they're being processed as they arrive. And that is why we should congratulate the ministry for working this way and after the public debate was concluded, at the same time, to refer the law ready to further procedure. And you colleagues and colleagues can take the text of the law, turn to the last page, and see exactly what observations have come, how they have been processed and why the ministry has accepted them, or has not accepted them. In line with the above, and given the fact that this is a well-thinking and wise bill proposal, that is to say, the prudent and wise procedure as described by the President of the Constitutional Court, Mrs Jasna, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, will be very happy to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115022	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115023	I am particularly pleased that you are speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, and also as a man, particularly proud of this provision, a modern provision on the new definition of mother that it is now a contemplative assumption. So it's usually the mother who gave birth, and it can prove otherwise. You also mentioned surrogate motherhood, I think one of the measures and in the future it will take to see what we will do with surrogate motherhood in a very short time. That's one thing. And the other thing is, what you're saying is that we're on the trail of, of course, modern technology that has long known different situations that mother, therefore, is not the woman who gave birth to a child, is not always the bearer of genetic traits. So it wasn't born to her egg cell. Not just a surrogate of motherhood. We have had in the recent past a great peritition about it and in Croatia about the theft of egg cells. Therefore, to advocate the old Roman principle that the mother of Sampre rupee est means to stick her head in the sand and be really, really beside healthy legs instead of going forward behind. It is, after all, in the interest of the child, it is in the interest of the Convention on the Protection of the Child that the child has the right to know who his mother is. And the mother is about to give the egg station, whose egg is the carrier of genetic material.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115024	Thank you. A fellow coat of arms answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Anticevic, we've actually had a situation in our legal order so far where the mother was a woman who didn't give birth to a child and it wasn't disputed for anyone. So is the woman who adopts the child his mother or what? She's his mother, and she takes care of him, loves him, respects and protects him. And we've had a provision like this that I'm particularly glad we've changed, and I believe it's one change. It's just that, and that's why it's been enough to change family law, and I believe that everyone who sits here, or we don't sit, can support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115026	Thank you, too. On behalf of HNS Representative Nada Turina-Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your esteemed deputy with your associate, colleague and colleague. The Croatian People's Party will also support the proposal of the Family Law in this first reading as we supported it in 2014 when this law was passed and we believe that these improvements that were introduced after the suspension and the referral of the new bill are welcome, something has been fixed let's say what was originally adopted. Like a colleague who spoke before me from the SDP, we feel that this law has made one major step in the standard of respect for the rights of the child above all but everyone in the family and all who could be or are potentially at risk within these relations. It's normal for a law like this to have and it's definitely a powerful world-wide foothold, and that's why it's caused such a big discussion, and that's why it's caused certain recommendations, and that's normal. And normally, on the one hand, the conservative party, on the other hand, the Social Democratic or Liberal Party, has different fundamental views on this law. However, this is normal and it is normal for that position which has certain objectives, to have a certain vision of how this area should be regulated and certain attitudes and to introduce them into the bill and to adopt them, i.e. to implement them in the work, or to implement them in reality. And no matter how angry they are with the opposition order, it's simply a question of our goal, our vision of what it should look like. So, in some perspective and in some future time, we will see that, of course, and that will be decided by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in some of our next parliamentary elections. I'm glad it means that we've done with this law step forward, because we're in this term, I'll remind you that we passed two other laws that I think colleagues don't take offense on this right-hand side would never have had them if it were up to you. It's the Life Partnership Act and the Helped Insemination Act that we've brought. And there's no anger. It is simply the position of this government, the position of this position, and we want to regulate society in this way and by those standards as proposed. Now, of course, when we went through this public debate under this law that was proposed, when we saw that most of those who had the key objections and with whom we had in the meantime made communication, of all the defenders, here I was also present today at the Health Committee who treated it and was very decent and I would say cultural communication. There are other suggestions, we are in the first reading, the ministry is open to considering some more of the proposals that were made there by the associations. Therefore, I do not see that such tension and such resistance spoken of by colleagues in the opposition does exist. But unfortunately, we all call ourselves here to the profession, there's one part of the profession, there's one part of the profession in a narrow sense means the social and the judges, and there are interest groups that don't fit this. And we all talked about it after the law was suspended and some of the lawyers were against it. These are very powerful groups, these are very powerful influences, these are people who have done this work throughout the system so far, and unfortunately some of them have managed to influence the Constitutional Court. And what I think is devastating is that the Constitutional Court has made one decision, as colleagues who are much better acquainted with the law than I am with the fact that by not saying anything crucial, nothing taxing that would really challenge this proposal and the 2014 proposal, and also this law now. And now we're waiting for something and we expect it from that Constitutional Court. When we're there, we'll see about that. However, I would not like to comment on their decision from here, of course, but it is definitely an assessment of everyone that pressure, influence, or whatever you want at some point in time, and that the Constitutional Court did not have a very clear position at that time, and then made a precedent and simply suspended, or delayed the application of the law by thinking when it happened, it would happen. How much time do we need for that? Apparently it takes them 6, 7, 8, 10, I don't know how many months to say what's against the law, we haven't seen it yet. And it is perfectly natural that in that legal void that we have received such a decision that our ministry, or that the Government has proposed a new text of the law, how much it has had to know that the Constitutional Court, through a decision of the Constitutional Court, has, in fact, had any knowledge of what is contrary to the constitutional law or what is the objection of the Constitutional Court to the law. And what is being asked here in the entire debate as the main question? It's the worst of it all, that it doesn't really matter what the content of the law is but who wrote the law. And you can see there, in fact, all the tragedy of this debate. Because I've been here for so long, I don't know how many people I've heard, our fellow MPs, who wrote the law. Well, for God's sakes, it's a profession, sure it's a profession, sure it's a goal given by the ministry or politics, that's the most normal and safe thing to do, and who's sitting in the ministry? Well, I guess some people in the ministry do. And they simply had to make an assessment of everything that had come from the profession to base what the aim of this law was to cut and offer a bill. The fact that someone doesn't like it worldlylyly, that someone doesn't like that some of them weren't invited to participate in lawmaking but others, some of them who aren't invited have a problem with it now, I don't think it's the subject here for discussion. Because the profession in some way always represents a particular interest, and the ministry is what it proposed. And we can't say that the ministry and the people in the ministry who worked on it are not a profession. So it's completely unnecessary here to talk about who wrote or signed the law. The law was signed by the minister, right? So I think that story is groundless, that is, gone deeply in the sphere of political reckoning, which is not good because we need to pass a law that is modern with higher standards and which our citizens who are in serious some of their particular situations are in very big troubles. And unlike anyone around here who's been saying that they've been told they're not doing anything wrong, and the assumption is that they're not responding to any kind of expertise. Look, in this law, some of them got some new obligations. We've extended some powers, we've introduced some new institutes through this bill. Of course there will be a little more work, that you will need, of course, to hire certain employees in these jobs. But even those who are working right now will probably have a bigger size of work. We all know that it's quite a profession, no profession likes to expand through the law in some way. However, I listened more to those who had their own problems and who, when the law was suspended in order to come and tell the world about the mother what had happened, so we hoped that we would solve our problems with the basis of this law now we would not be able to solve the question of when power and will you in the House do something to make this law come into effect? I didn't know the answer, but thank you. I knew the ministry would take whatever we could get back in the process. And that's why I would say here that on behalf of all those who looked forward to the law, got it last year, so they were suspended from letting go of this law, he would technically cause it, so it's probably not that it's not perfect and nothing is perfect. And what you said about who ever produced something perfect? Let's let this law go because of those who expect it as a cold sun. The Croatian People's Party will support a good part of these problems in the first reading of this bill because of our citizens who have such problems and all those who may unfortunately be in such problems again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115028	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115029	Here's a colleague when you mention that the Family Law has been suspended I can only add let the law be suspended, so be it. But that's why the brains and responsibilities this government has cannot and must not be suspended and we show that by this bill. You say it's normal for people of different worlds to have a different view of the family as well. That seems to be the way it should be if you, with different views, with other views especially conservative views, really lived that way. But for me, first of all, it's insane. Because if I live a modern life, I don't care what kind of life the other man lives in the cave, does the father live, how he raises his children, that's his business, but what do conservatives do? They live very liberally, more liberally than many of us here, so they live the way we advocate, but what they do, which is hypocrisy, and that's why hypocrisy has to be revealed every day in every way to be credible at all. You keep your mouth shut over there. And listen to what this is all about, so that by defending themselves publicly, they give themselves the right to live liberally, but to God on the low passions of a certain number of people by calling to some tradition, you know, then they're advocating a traditional way of life and there's no trace of it, let alone in tradition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115030	Thank you. The answer to Hope Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115031	Well, I was thinking about what I was going to say in the debate, and I dropped a part here while I was talking, but I was thinking about it. It's about the hypocrisy problem. So we have to admit, and this is highlighted in more debates, we as a society go forward, not only as a Croatian society but also as a community, a wider community around us, and we have to follow trends, we have to think about having to keep up with certain problems in advance so that we don't create gaps, so we don't get into situations that are insecure to us and that are insecure to us by those fundamental rights, endangering our children, there are terrible situations in the community on the ground, terrible situations. What is this law that we now have in force, which is the one from 2003, are de facto indecisive. People die of pain, emotional pain because they can't solve their problems through the law that time has run over. And one more thing, my colleagues were saying that they were aware of the lack of law and didn't bring it up until 2011, so they had time, it's something terrible to me, it's something terrible to be aware of bad law and not do anything because it's probably by that conservative principle again and it's better not to do anything but to make a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115032	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. Now we'll stop for a moment and continue at 9:30. ... You'll have to appreciate that I've been sitting here for two hours and 18 minutes... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I'm asking the same thing, I don't see Vice President Reiner leaving, and I haven't seen a colleague of mine before. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll continue at 9:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:30 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115034	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy with an associate. So about this new Family Law proposal, as we have highlighted on behalf of the club, I personally support this bill. I supported this Family Law and the one that was passed last year, which was suspended by the Constitutional Court. I welcome the government's responsibility, in accordance with point 769 of the reasoning of the Constitutional Court's solution, where it is explicitly said that for the effective implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision in practice, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government were competent to maintain a minimum level of legal certainty and protection of rights and well-being both for children and persons with disabilities achieved by the adoption of the Family Law last year, it was only possible to do what it could, which is to pass a new law, of course improved. And what seems to me to be particularly important to stress is that it has been improved and given the observations that have been made by the various stakeholders to the Constitutional Court. A lot has also been discussed today as to why the 2003 law required certain improvements. Yes, he demanded, however, that if you look at the discussions and remarks that were conducted about the 2003 Family Law and what was going on in its application in practice, most of those who were ultimately against the adoption of the new Family Law before the creation of a new family law and themselves proposed to start a very new Family Law because the remarks that went to the implementation of the 2003 law were so much so that it simply became incomplete that it was changing and supplementing only in certain provisions. And it remains only regrettable that during this period until 2003, practically by 2012, there was no strength or desire to solve this issue of family relations more fully, as the Government has now done. What I would also like to say about this law, in particular, should be pointed out that, among other things, all of our attorneys have warned for many years about the shortcomings of the Family Law, I am primarily referring to the Ombudsman for children whose reports back in the past have always been the same problems every year as the largest and who simply demanded to make some more radical turn when it comes to family legal relations. In addition, the Ombudsman welcomed the adoption of a new Family Law and particularly pointed out in the 2014 Family Law suspension report for the past year. When it comes to the Advocate General for Gender Equality remembering those discussions when we passed Family Law last year, I think that all objections, and especially the part relating to the full equalization of extramarital communities with the marriage community, I asked whether there are any more significant objections in this period, but I did not find them, except again the expression of concern in this period, which and how now the extramarital communities are being treated, since, according to the old Family Act of 2003, the extramarital community was not even with the marriage community. And here in this proposal, therefore, the new bill remains the provisions that we adopted in 2014. Today I have had the opportunity to see the proposal already now, although this is the first reading, by the Autonomous Women's House that is so much more extensive but in fact there are many broad explanations, I have reviewed them and I personally think that one good part of these remarks can be incorporated into this proposal of the Family Law until the next reading, by the more or less being managed not only by their own practice of working with primarily victims of violence, but also because these provisions fit in the proposal of the Council of Europe itself to protect against violence against women, domestic violence and any other violence. And since we are awaiting, I expect and hope that the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention may now be a really good opportunity to set out the postulates to which this Convention obliges us to enter and in the Family Law, given that one part of it has been done between us and the amendments to the Penal Code. What I must say, however, is that I cannot agree in that part of their proposal, and that a good part of the provisions of the Family Protection Act is transferred to the Family Law because and when we discussed both the Penal Code and when we re-entered the Penal Code for Family Violence but we left that other law, the Law on Protection against Family Violence, which is ahead, I will not tell us to amend and supplement, but I think there will be a whole new Law on Protection against Family Violence which, in one part and in a breaking sense, will therefore be treated. So here I would take the opportunity to ask the representatives, the deputy and her associate to continue the dialogue with the autonomous women's house and, of course, with other associations because I believe there's really enough room for improvement. I'd also like one more piece of this bill. So I think that especially should point out the part relating to the recognition of paternity and the procedure of recognition, i.e. the presummation of marital paternity, the exceptions. I think in that part, they've been some, many years of observed bad practice I think they'll be avoided in the future. In order to pray, Article 65 concerning special provisions on the recognition of paternity by one of our colleagues, was a colleague of Lesar and others in 2011, in the early year of 2011, with a proposal to amend and supplement the Family Law, of course, it did not, however, refer to the recognition of paternity to a dead child or child who died at birth when it comes to extramarital relationships or some other relationships. And encouraged, and recently there was a case through the media when it happened that a child who died seemed to me two weeks after birth and it was a non-marriage community that couldn't enroll his father, so the name of his father couldn't be entered because it wasn't settled in the 2003 law. By thinking that there is an opportunity to improve Article 65(4), because this is a matter, it is about the recognition of fatherhood to a dead child or child who died at birth. However, it may be necessary to find one formulation, since it happens to die after a week or two, so before it is entered into the womb of the born, so that somewhere there is an attempt to find an improvement in this provision of this article. And here's what we would really solve. I think a lot, a lot of cases that unfortunately happen, and I believe that in that sense, this law can also experience some improvements until the second reading. And I believe that with his second reading, with the adoption that we can then so say fill in this now legal void and the uncertainty created by the act of suspending this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115035	Thank you, too. Ante Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115036	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, Sobol, you said, even the 2014 law I accepted, I will also accept this law for 2015 from the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. At the end of the year, each government adopts an annual plan of normative acts for the following year, and you must admit that this law was not foreseen for 2015. I think that by passing this new Family Law, the Ministry of Social Policy actually wants the Constitutional Court not to carry out the process of assessing the constitutionality of the Family Law in 2014 but rather to suspend it for the purpose of stopping it. It's also probably the ministry's intensity. I would agree in one part with you when you say that by the second reading, a large part of the remarks that have been made in this first reading and from other stakeholders related to the Family Law can be corrected. It is true, and I stress that often, I would be particularly glad that any law that comes into the legal procedure goes through some thorough analysis, that all those committees pass, that they adopt observations so that we have far, far less objections in plenary sessions, and that is to say, easier to adopt laws, which is not really the case with this law, especially that it has caused great controversy in the public. And these controversies will also be innate that individual associations and institutions and this bill will give an assessment of constitutionality which would actually not be good and bad in our society. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115037	Thank you. Answer, fellow Sobol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115038	My colleague Babic, so I don't know what you think the government should have done now, sat down and waited for the Constitutional Court to pass the assessment of constitutionality. And how long will it take, a year, two years or five years? And what are we gonna do about it? Using the 2003 law where all these experts from both left and right, however you wish and associations, warned that there are so many problems in its implementation that it has caused more injustice than it should have been and that a new bill should be made? And I think the government has acted responsibly and I believe that the one who made the suspension decision, for the first time, of suspending a law that should have thought about what would happen. He let the government handle that part and the government used it. And so I welcome the decision that the government has done everything right over the past few months, and yet fellow Peja has said that on behalf of the club and finally with a public debate. And all the laws that were in that public debate on the website of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth are fully discussed. All proposals, any objections from all associations, experts, those or those with the ministry's answers why they accept something, why they do not accept, remarks etc. So it's all very transparent and everyone who wanted to have a look at it. So I don't see what the problem should be now and what the government should have done. And I think she did the most responsible thing she could. And that it goes with a bill that has been improved not only nomotechnically or explicitly but also respects certain observations that have been made to the Constitutional Court. And according to this, the Constitutional Court will make some of its future decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115039	Thank you. Tatjana Shimac- Bonačić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam deputy, assistant, co-workers and colleagues. I support this very important law that regulates a large, specific and sensitive area and I read from it the maximum protection of children. There's been a lot of complaints. One of them was that the law was too far-reaching, but this law except that it regulates marriage institutes and extramarital communities, children's rights, parental care, measures to protect children, abstention, custody, family meditation, etc., it also regulates actually judicial procedures or practices because before we knew the rights, however, it was often not known who, what and how it works. This Family Law was, in fact, being discussed today that it was commendable that this Family Law protects the most vulnerable members of society, these are children and persons with disabilities. I'm going to say today, I'm going to look back at divorce and joint parental care, and then measures to protect children and eliminate the full depravity of business ability. When we talk about divorce and joint parental care, the concept of a new divorce takes care first of all of the children, and thus to families who remain after divorce. It is not true how certain family - law experts persistently present this law to the public that it has given up the concept of the reconciliation of mates. In fact, marriage is a very important institution of every society, both Croatian and therefore the preservation of marriage as well as other forms of family, there is an extramarital and same-sex community, it is necessary to approach appropriate instruments, not only to protect marriage at a formal level, while completely ignoring the interests of children. We also need to know from statistics how the peace that is being implemented under the 2003 Family Law in social care centres is, above all, almost no success or very little success. Long - term marital problems cannot be solved in this way, and on the other hand, the state is obliged to protect children who suffer in long - term litigation among parents. The introduction of mandatory counselling and family meditation under the new Family Law as mandatory steps before going to court are actually the most modern instruments aimed at helping parents and children in the moments of their family's collapse to actually organise family life with a child in the coming years of life. The new Family Law thus saves parents and children long - term court proceedings and judicial legal costs, as well as health problems caused by stress, which sometimes means lifelong traumas caused by conflicts among parents. Divorces unfortunately last long, conflicts too. The children are in a particularly emotional charge, they're actually taking charge from their parents, they're actually adults, and they're children. They're burdened with trauma. In fact, child manipulation in divorce is very, very common and it actually leads to emotional abuse of children. When we talk about joint parental care, it's actually how international experts interpret it, they say the best and worst option for a child. If a parent puts a child first in front of their own problems, then joint parental care is the best solution for a child. However, if parents are highly conflicting, if there is domestic violence, and if a parent uses a child to deal with another parent, then joint parental care is the worst solution for a child. This is the position of the Committee on the Rights of Children under which no law should automatically trust parents or parents to provide parental care for a child, which is exactly the solution of the Family Law in 2003, according to which, without any selection or reservation, both parents jointly provide parental care for what many use as a tool for child manipulation. For 10 years now, this child rights issue has been being warned by the children's defenders' institute. In the battle of parents for their rights i.e. For equality between a man and a woman right to parental care, a child must not be a weapon but is the constitutional duty of the state to protect the child from such parents. The new Family Law contains the necessary instruments that first encourage the agreement of parents, and if it fails to give the court guidelines and deadlines to which they will act. When we talk about child protection measures, then I'll give some examples. An 8-year-old English girl died in 2000, an Austrian boy who died in 2007, and our 3-month-old baby died in Croatia in early 2013. It is a common death that has occurred as a direct consequence of domestic abuse and neglect. For all three tragedies, it is also the fact that social workers, doctors, police were familiar with the family problems in which these unhappy children lived, as well as the fact that their health and life in the family were at risk, and the public awareness of the necessity of protection and of children at risk. After the death of an English girl, the public rose to its feet and several years later legal reforms in the area of child protection followed. The same scenario took place in Austria, they took up their feet and, of course, reformed Austrian legislation in the area of child protection. In Croatia, when the baby died because of parental neglect, only a few newspaper articles remained, TV contributions and her death was not a cause for reform of the public health care system of children in Croatia. Children's protection measures have not been amended in the Family Law for more than 30 years. In this proposal of the Family Law, it introduces order and discipline in the work of the Social Care Centre, introduces strict deadlines for the protection of children, the duties of centres and courts that are clearly worked out, so that it knows who is working within which deadlines, so that according to this, they will know who is responsible and who is responsible for what if there is a failure to protect children. A new Family Law, a deadline for the immediate separation of a child for only 15 days. They know exactly the duty of the centre, the duty of the court, and the assessment of the child's threat and the appropriate judicial measure must be expressed within the significantly shortened deadlines. The outdated monitoring measure of parental care under the old Family Law dating back to the 1970s is the new Family Law in line with the modern psychological and social approach of social work aimed at providing professional support and support to parents and not as long-term supervision has been paid from the budget, of course, without any effective support from parents in raising children. This situation ultimately results in today’s circumstances where children spend their entire childhood in homes without being able to return to a healthy family environment, but without the possibility of adoption. And one more thing about history, a step with the new Family Law is the abolition of the full depravity of business ability. In this way, these historic steps are made by experts, which are workers in centres for social care, psychiatrists, experts and judges forcing every person with disabilities to act on an individual level, which is also the obligation of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities. Further important step is to protect people with disabilities is the possibility that an adult while healthy can decide on the important issues of his life in case of illness, disability by giving so-called. Anti-civilized statements. In this way, in fact, anyone can determine in advance who will be his custodian in the event of a disease, and not depend exclusively on family members who are once unfavorable. Here in the end we had yesterday on the board actually saw a few remarks, remarks from the profession. And I'm on this first reading, I'm sure the ministry will take into account those remarks that are right and will actually put it into the second reading law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115041	Thank you, too. Ljiljana Cvetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115042	Your Honor, Vice President, the esteemed deputy with an associate. The reform of family legislation stemmed from the need to improve the system of family-law protection of children and adult family members under the care of the Republic of Croatia as well as the harmonisation of this area with the current documents of the Council of Europe and the EU. Priority areas for promotion include custody of adults, adoption, parental care, encounters and association with the child, abstention, the arrangement of family-law procedures in terms of the protection of the child's rights in procedures, and the introduction of new measures. Therefore, a new Family Law was drawn up which entered into force on 1 September 2014 and which amended and upgraded new solutions to international standards in the material and procedural areas in the field of marriage, the legal relations between parents and children, adoptions, custody of minors and abstentions compared to the previous 2003 Family Law. The procedural part of the proceedings before the court, the co-operation of the Centre for Social Care and the Court and their powers in the proceedings has also been improved. New out-of-party procedures have also been arranged in matters of child restraint and various family-law issues as well as temporary measures. The decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 12 January 2015 put the law out of force, it ceased to comply with this law, and once again it was an old law of 2003 that brought legal certainty into question, for example the enforcement of power decisions, the decision of the Centre for Social Care on measures to protect the rights and well-being of the child. These are the most endangered children and persons with disabilities who have lost their rights. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has left the issue of the application of specific regulations unclear, so, for example, the area of abstention is currently governed by two different laws that apply. This Family Law proposal is governed by the same areas as the Family Law of 2014 and the amendments include the following: alignment of terms, clarification or removal of certain provisions of the Family Law of 2014. Provisions have been removed which have been received concerning the establishment of motherhood by judicial means, the inability to declare legal medicinal products against certain decisions of the courts such as the Common Parenting Plan and the Maintenance Agreement. By its provisions, this law will address the issue of retaining acquired rights under the Family Law of 2014 and will ensure the continuation of the work of the Centre for Special Care. It will be put outside the scope of the rules in the field of family legal protection currently applicable, which are conflicting and lead to legal uncertainty. Next, the law will ensure the protection of children and persons deprived of their business skills at the level achieved by the Family Law of 2014. The work of the Centre for the Special Care of Family Mediators and Others will be continued. This law will bring family law into line with EU provisions and ensure that the views and instructions of the European Court of Human Rights are applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115043	Thank you, too. Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115044	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The debate takes a long time and it's hard to make some new arguments that my colleagues and colleagues from the club have already failed to make. Let me give you a very short example of my friend's divorce to show you what the current family law of 2003 means in practice. They were married to two children, and there's a divorce that we can't possibly call peaceful or friendly, and I'm not going to say that their lawyers helped them bury themselves deep in the trenches, but I'm going to say that they didn't help them not do it and that they don't stay in those trenches for years. The kids stay at the mother's, but the father hasn't paid child support in years. Very cunning and I'd say in due time he transferred all his assets to members of the rope family, i.e. specifically to my brother. And the man, the father of two children, until today's benevolent entrepreneur suddenly has nothing and can't pay child support. There's no alimony because there's no income for life, but there's a 100 thousand-euro car. That's what he's got money for. So for years he hasn't cared about his children, he doesn't ask about them, he doesn't visit them, he doesn't just take care of them. The mother fights alone, raises children, feeds them, dresses them, and pays the loan for the apartment she lives in with her two children. And years go by and figure out an ex-husband how to manipulate an older kid and talk that kid into puberty to come live with him. You won't believe it, but a man who doesn't have income for life and didn't pay child support, don't ask me how, but he gets custody of an older child. You wonder how that's possible? That's what my friend asked for, a long time. But the court has made a decision that now the ex-wife, the mother of those two children, my friend, must pay her ex-husband who hasn't paid child support in years, and now she has to pay him to support the child who moved in with him because the court has determined it. And not only that, the mother of two children herself has been paying off credit from the beginning for the apartment where she lives. An ex-husband who's got custody of an older child now, imagine this, is looking for half the value of an apartment one didn't single out. The law says she is obliged to pay her ex-husband half the value of the apartment, regardless of having proof that she paid it herself, paid the loan herself, and she has the right to claim half of the loan paid in the last 5 years. So she's half the value of his entire apartment, and she'd have the right to half the credit paid in the last five years, just five years. All that you've heard is tragic and sad, and I can really imagine even if she wasn't my friend, even if I hadn't personally been involved in her personal life tragedy, I would understand what counterpart Nada Turina-Đurić said, and I would understand and believe that you can now understand this emotional pain from which a man can really get sick at least if nothing else. So all of this you've heard allows the old current Family Law. And that is why I really believe that the proposal for this law will improve, improve and improve the existing situation in family and legal protection. I believe this law will do just that, that it will correct the injustice that she has experienced and many, many other women. I believe that the law will make things right for the better, that it will correct injustices, absurdities like I said, and two readings are for all those who want to constructively contribute to the welfare of our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115045	Thank you, too. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115046	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. I support this proposal of the Family Law, and I will remind you of that famous sentence that the great Tolstoy begins his famous novel that all happy families resemble each other and that each one is unhappy in its own way. This is what our ministry heads up with Madam Vice-President Opacic knows. And the government, with such a bill of law and perseverance to resolve the biggest challenge, is to stop child manipulation. Children are not a polygon to which not only parents will show their unsatisfactory passions or vanity but also some institutions that are embarrassing. In such a way, the government has shown not only that it knows what it is doing, that it is competent in it, but the government has shown that it has a soul. And a minister with her team, unseen and unlimited love for those who need her children most. And this is reflected in every article of this bill, understanding everything that happens in practice, removing everything that was an obstacle so that the child's interest could be affirmed especially in those most stressful situations, which is the divorce of parents that my predecessors have just spoken of here, better said the predecessors. The Ombudsman for children pointed out that she supports every regulation that goes in favour of protecting children's rights and says the Family Law is such a law. She added that the most recent application is received and that these applications relate to violation of the rights of children and difficulties and inability to provide parental care. Mrs. President-in-Office of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, recently said the public needs to be sensitised for violations of children's rights. So that message, and for those who can't hear us, let them at least hear the president. When the Constitutional Court attacked the legislator, attacked the Croatian Parliament, attacked the government by going beyond its competences, so I don't care if he dumped the law himself, but he then dumped the de facto children. It's something that really worries that one such institution can behave that way. However, we may wonder as much as we like, we may be more afraid of it than we are of the surprise to which it is chosen only by HDZ's majority, then what are we surprised at here? What are we surprised at here? So we can expect some other decisions tomorrow as at least announce the media about it we have had the opportunity to hear, but how it does not penetrate this matter, so I will not mention it now but perhaps very soon, but apparently, according to the Constitutional Court's announcements, there is no time in due course to solve this situation, and therefore just as fellow Sobol said, the responsible Government is making the necessary measures that are necessary to address the situation and that is this Family Law. So, not only did the Constitutional Court overstep its powers, came to another zone, into the area of legislative, executive, but it did so without any legal foothold and I do not claim it, the man from the Constitutional Court who has been working publicly for twenty years in the Constitutional Court. And it's causing trouble and there's no answer to that. It is said that the law is ensnared, the law is as it should be. It has been said that we do not know what experts were doing, and that on that first law they are not experts, because experts are the only ones who support the ideas of HDZ and close to that option. That's unacceptable, but that's not the point, because some of them have been involved in making very modern laws before. So it is only vanity because Croatia has always been the leader of the former state as a leader in Europe in the arrangement, the modern solution to the status issues of its own citizens. We were already then, in 78 years we had an institution to conclude marriage through the power of attorney, which is not what America had. In 2003 we are establishing a new Family Law new definition of mother on the basis of modern technology and scientific achievements but also on the basis of what is already happening in life. Therefore, a wise legislator should also perceive what would happen, and we were already in a position to just cover the situation that had already arisen. And that's why I really like the idea of the law to have such a standard. What the HDZ does in 2004 is not tolerate that a mother can at all be the one who didn't give birth to a child. It abolishes that norm, but it does not lift the provisions on the challenge of motherhood. So you have the impossible situation that the mother is an inconceivable assumption under the existing law which now applies and that the Constitutional Court doesn't mind, at all, that you have a situation that, inconceivable assumptions, the mother is always the one who gave birth to the other woman who has stolen the eggs you allow to challenge motherhood to the woman who gave birth to the child. So you see when you do something out of passion, out of force, not out of reason, and because we think it's because it was in Roman law, we defend tradition. What is also worrying and what shows, practice shows a very short practice of the law while it was alive until it was euthanized by the Constitutional Court. So in four months, he's got the unseen results, so I can tell you that I suspected because usually a good institute, too, takes a certain amount of time to live. As much as it is the parents of the passion team, let us not just judge them, and even those who do so need help, they are essentially crying out for help. And it was one aid that enabled it, so this famous fact that in 4 months, therefore 697 children were given such help that in 225 cases adults who had deprived their business skills had received their guardian that in 150 divorce cases only 10 of them went to court, they calmly resolved their dispute. It's a big deal for the judiciary, maybe not at all for the judiciary and for the costs, mostly for people to live peacefully. They can't live together, they have kids in common, they have property, so it's a big fortune. Well, we all always swear on our family, in the sanctity of protecting our family, really, family is the refuge of life. But it can be heaven, it can be hell. And it's up to us to sort of relieve all these unfortunate situations, to remove those difficulties, to ease all these situations, especially stressful situations for children. It's kind of strange to believe, we think big crime is happening somewhere where big money turns, but it's amazing how much I'd say organized crime because they're connected through many pores of society, very prominent places, most often when there's violence or pedophilia in their own home, and when a mother discovers it, he's not a respected surgeon he doesn't do, he's a respected doctor, he doesn't do it, she's crazy, at home he doesn't know what he's going to do, he's got postpartum traumas that lasts up to 5, 6 years of a child who tells his mother things that are embarrassing. And that whole system is scheduled just because such people are influential, threatening, paying, and all of this could or most of the problem could be prevented just give a vote for this bill. Once again, I have one message for the Constitutional Court itself. The great Halil Jubra, the great poet and philosopher, "Beware of a size that does not bow before children." And I'd say this is the first reading, let's cross, let's add, let's change, but let's not cross the kids.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115047	Thank you. We've exhausted the charges for the hearing. Final Deputy Minister, please, for a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115048	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. Thank you very much for a very constructive and contentious debate. We will consider all your suggestions and remarks very carefully. We continue to work on the law and its preparation for second reading, of course not losing sight of the best interests of those that this law has in focus, which are children and persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115049	Thank you, too. We'll be done for tonight. Tomorrow we leave with the Final Proposal of the Civil Protection Act, second reading. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-07-02-0.u115050	Family law proposal, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 847, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: ′′1. A proposal for family law is hereby adopted. 2. Any objections, suggestions and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the law.’ Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 76 votes in favour of, 7 abstentions, 17 votes against the proposed conclusion.
