ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u105972	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we will continue today's session. We will discuss: - Proposal for a Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 821; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. What of my colleague Boro Grubisic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, or do you have a replica? What kind of replica do you have? For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u105973	Thank you very much. I don't have a replica, but I'm warning you, Mr. Caine raised his hand on the pause.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u105974	Well, well, you can't replicate because he raised his hand. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u105975	Thank you, Mr. Grubisic, because perhaps the vice president wouldn't have noticed, unlike the other MPs. I'm kidding. Stank a few minutes, a few minutes, Madam Vice President. For what or what? About the property cards of judges and the 70th anniversary of the victory over Nazism and how this was marked in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u105976	You can only have one topic. Take your pick.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u105977	I chose this second one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u105978	I'm setting a break to 9.42, two minutes. [[It's 9:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER A MEETING IN 9,42 HOURS]] A colleague, Damir Cain, on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club after a break, will give the club's opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u105980	Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yesterday a new Property Card Act was announced, and there's absolutely no dilemma here, and we all agree, and we're all unique that property cards have to go out. However, many ask me why the crash cards are not on the Internet, why DORH officials' cards are not on the Internet either. They are obliged by the Law on the State Judicial Council to substrate data on their own property, however, the property cannot be made public. A lot of people I talked to yesterday say, so look, a lot of people are full, heavy like ships. They even say this Parliament looks like a kindergarten for some of our judges. I personally believe that they should be the first to publish property cards. Clearly, it is necessary to publish all the property cards of those judges and those of the state lawyers who worked in that system or in those institutions until 5 years ago, and today they are lawyers, notaries or other businesses. And then many would be surprised who actually represents those institutions. We should go out as well as the cards of the director of public and municipal companies. Some, I couldn't believe it until a year or two ago have even castles. Yes, you've heard very well, Castle. Where, in Vojvodina, Serbia. Well, that's what I'd like to know. The property cards of our CEOs and that should come out. The conflict of interest where it is, so it is not a conflict of interest only when it comes to bribes because it is almost difficult or almost impossible to prove. It's not just that privileged information, it's not just a guess. The conflict of interest is best seen when someone, mainly in the executive power, ends his term and then where that person ends. As a rule, it ends with a tycoon, for God's sakes in some advisory place, in fact, it's about returning the services that this person received from that executive official. Finally, the heads of these agencies were elected on our own, so I guess we can change them ourselves. But just one more sentence. Tomorrow the world celebrates the 70th anniversary of victory over fascism. Croatia as we are, we are divided around everything, we are divided around Jasenovac and around Bleiburg, and we are even divided around the Storm. I read that the city of Zagreb, today I read it in the Evening List, could change the name of Tito's square into the theatre square. Neither Croatia's left is communist, nor the right hand is Ustasha, which does not mean that there are no those who advocate not communism but a constitution. ... What we heard from a Europarliamentary, we laughed as much as you wanted, that Croatia needs to clean up as it says from Serbs. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On tomorrow 70 years ago, the Partisans released Zagreb, and now should change the name of Tito's square. This morning I read to Mr. Jakovina or Professor Jakovina that Vladimir Nazor, speaking to the Zagrebers, was about to tell us partisans we bear the freedom that we Croats enjoy with Croatian Marshal Tito. Its bust is not Tito's, but the Nazorov here in the Parliament. I hope that he will not experience Tito's fate, at least not until the end of this term, the exact surveillance has not long lived to be able to judge freedom after World War II, but again. I said gentlemen, tomorrow is the 70th anniversary of victory over fascism. May, May, however, to whom it is dearly reserved in Croatia is always for these historical lessons, but it is possible that we can't even agree on how to mark the Storm today. It's irrational, it's irresponsible, sometimes it's necessary to give in, no matter who's involved. It's simply the vision of this country, the future of us children, it's not good and it's not promising.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108957	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we will continue today's session. We will discuss: - Proposal for a Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 821; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. I now ask the Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr. Miranda Mrsic to explain the draft law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108958	Honorable Madam Vice President, honourable MPs, respected MPs. You have before you a draft proposal on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications based on what we have achieved in 2013 by entering the European Union we become part of the single market of the European Union and, accordingly, this law paints and everything that happens in that labour market. The basis for the adoption of this law is to coordinate with the amendment of Directive 2005/36 on the recognition of professional qualifications, but also the efforts to enable foreign holders of professional qualifications to work in the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions as Croatian citizens, as Croatia has become part of the European Union's single internal market. What is wanted by the new law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications? The aim of the adoption of this law is to enable professional qualifications holders who have acquired their professional qualifications in another Member State to have equal access to the same profession and the same rights in the exercise of that profession in the Republic of Croatia, and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications creates conditions for their equal participation in the labour market of the Republic of Croatia as the implementation of the recognition process is equated with qualifications in the Republic of Croatia. The benefits of this law will be from professional qualifications holders who want to work in the field of the Republic of Croatia, who have acquired their professional qualifications on the territory of the European Economic Area or in a third country Croatian citizens who want to work in another EU member using similar legal acts in the host country. The provisions of this law regulate the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the accession and exercise of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia and the conditions for the free provision of services on the basis of foreign professional qualifications. This law regulates the following: the provision of services on a temporary and occasional basis on the basis of foreign professional qualifications, general and automatic system of recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the purpose of exercising the right to business origin, minimum training conditions for the performance of 7 so-called 7 so-called. sectoral professions, the establishment of common competence frameworks and joint exams for certain regulated professions at EU level, the introduction of a European professional card for individual professions. The electronic card will be issued through the internal market information system at EU level. Cooperation between the competent authorities of Croatia and the EU and recognition of foreign professional qualifications acquired in third countries. The provision of services on a temporary and occasional basis on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and on the basis of foreign professional qualifications enables citizens of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation to provide, under the conditions laid down in this law on a temporary and occasional basis, their services without commercial establishment in the Republic of Croatia and without the obligation to recognise their professional qualifications. The procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications shall be carried out in two ways, i.e. on the basis of a general or automatic recognition system, and for the purpose of the exercise of the right of establishment in the Republic of Croatia, the automatic system shall apply to the recognition of 7 so-called 7th so-called ‘recognition’. sectoral professions, which are doctors of medicine, dental doctors, nurses responsible for the activities of general care, recipients, masters of pharmacies, veterinarians and architects whose minimum training conditions are harmonised in all EU Member States as well as for the recognition of professions with established common competence standards at EU level and for the recognition of previous professional experience in individual professions considered sufficient to carry out a particular profession. The general recognition system shall cover all professions not covered by the above-mentioned automatic recognition system and shall not meet the requirements for the automatic recognition of qualifications due to special emergency circumstances. Common competence standards include the establishment of common competence frameworks and common skills tests for certain regulated professions at EU level and the European Commission is authorised to adopt delegated acts in order to establish them for a particular profession, with different criteria and conditions to be met. In practice, this means that professional qualifications will be recognised more quickly in professions for which common competence standards are established, and representatives of professional organisations at EU level as well as national professional organisations or competent authorities from at least one third of Member States will be able to submit proposals to the European Commission for the establishment of common competence frameworks and joint training tests. However, the biggest amendment to the directive of this law concerns the introduction of a European professional card for individual professions. Such an electronic card has been created and sent through an internal marketing information system or system at EU level. It is an electronic tool provided by the European Commission to facilitate administrative cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States and between the competent authorities of the EU Member States. The system will simplify and speed up the process of recognising foreign professional qualifications. The European Professional Card will be issued voluntarily at the request of the holder of professional qualifications in certain professions, which wish to exercise their right to work in another EU Member State, without issuing a physical card, but will be in electronic form to be sent to the IMI system. This card does not replace a professional card that can be issued by professional chambers to its members. For which professions will be introduced, the European Professional Card is decided by the European Commission, and so far this card is foreseen for 5 professions, for nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists, mountain guides, real estate agents. The system of issuing the European Professional Card should be operational on 18 January 2016 and for these 5 professions the trial period would be until 18 January 2018, so 2 years. If a system of issuing a European professional card were found to work well and to encourage the mobility of experts across Member States, then the cards for two more professions would be introduced for doctors of medicine and engineers. The system is designed in a way to be flexible, leaving the possibility of a European professional card being introduced over time for more professions. This depends, of course, on the decision of the European Commission, and introduces it for the most mobile professions at EU level, and, of course, if there is sufficient interest. The issue of a European professional card would replace the whole process of recognising foreign professional qualifications, which certainly speeds up and encourages mobility of professionals across countries. The European Commission has the power to adopt a regulation that would be directly applicable in all Member States in order to ensure consistency and unity in the process of issuing a European Professional Card or that the system is implemented equally in all Member States. As far as we know, this regulation is in preparation. Since the Services Directive and the Professional Qualifications Recognition Directive have identical parts relating to the temporary and occasional provision of services to the provision of a provision of the amended Professional Qualifications Directive provide for a single contact point and a single application procedure. For this reason, contact point in accordance with the applicable law will become a aid centre and the role of the single contact point will be assumed by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in accordance with the Service Act. In this respect, professional qualification holders will be provided with all information through a single contact point for services in accordance with the Services Act and citizens will be able to obtain their information at the Help Centre in accordance with this law and this Help Centre is a national office with the Agency for Science and Higher Education. All formalities related to the procedure for the recognition of foreign and professional qualifications will be easily resolved by electronic means. In addition, intensive cooperation between competent authorities is envisaged through the IMI system. During the application of the applicable law in cooperation with key stakeholders, certain problems have been identified in the process of recognising foreign qualifications, in particular in cases of recognition of professional qualifications acquired in third countries, i.e. in countries other than States Parties to the Treaty on European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. Directive 2005/36 on the recognition of professional qualifications allows Member States to recognise, in accordance with their own rules, nationals of third countries of professional qualifications acquired outside the EU and, in any event, respect minimum training conditions for certain problems. Croatia is a specific EU country because there are many of our citizens who have acquired or acquired their qualifications in third countries or those who are not part of the EU, economic space and Swiss confederations that are in our environment. However, after obtaining educational or professional qualifications, they return to Croatia where they face the problem of recognising professional qualifications and most often their outcomes of learning and competence do not match those acquired in Croatia for the same profession. In this respect, this law also regulates the recognition of foreign professional qualifications acquired in third countries in such a way as to apply the general system of recognition of qualifications as well as to EU citizens but the competent authority may, if it considers it necessary, set additional conditions to prove that it has professional qualifications equal to those required to practice a particular profession in the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Labour and Pension System has the role of coordinators in the system of professional regulation and coordination of competent ministries in order to make the system as efficient and simple as possible. The draft law was attended by all resolution ministries and was also co-operated with competent chambers which were competent authorities in the process of recognising foreign professional qualifications. During the application of the applicable law, opportunities have been observed to improve the system which this law aims to achieve. Since all legal acts implementing the provisions of the amended Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications must enter into force by 18 January and the new law prescribes the adoption of several acts, such as the Regulation on the issue of a European Professional Card and the EU Certificate Regulations, we propose that this law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108959	Thank you. Vice President Zeljko Reiner's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108960	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I think it's a good idea for you to decide to give this in two readings. I think it is very good, because we have been witnesses often to be under the firm that it is about the adoption of a European directive or European law pushing it into the first reading, this is how it will be possible to improve between the two readings. What seems to me to be the most important thing to improve, I will talk about some other things when I speak on behalf of the club, is to remove the possibility that, for example, the Ministry of Health by special regulation, which is the Health Protection Act actually the spirit of the directive and bring a profession from the field of health into a discriminatory position in relation to other regulated professions set out in this Directive. I am aware that your ministry is only a coordinator of the whole thing, but the more precise the Law on regulated professions is going to be less likely to happen, and at this point many are afraid of it. Well, here's what I'm suggesting is that you take special care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108961	Minister Miranda Mrsic's reply to the replica, you won't. Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108962	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, I understand and understand this alignment with EU legislation and that it allows how it says "access to qualifications" to all. And in that sense, everything is clear and understandable to me only and each of these professions therefore has its own thoughts but I am tired of speaking these days and those I would say reaction by some nurses in agreement, etc. It's some deal reached but to me in particular it's not clear this statement sisterly him, sisterly him. It's okay, she's sisterly and in health care institutions as such, but she has a health care provider, she's a health care professional, and now in that sense I'm holding her there at HZZO, the healthcare professional in the house as such, and now, of course, nurses warn about that statement so health care. I say health care in a house that has an exceptional contribution to the quality of life for those who need it mainly in rural areas. So I want you to clarify this issue because it's not all good in these circumstances when it comes to this broader context and health care and these changes that have not even been started yet, so I'm asking your opinion, and since it's about first reading, I think it would be good to clearly define these differences between sister care and healthcare and I think that my statement is health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108963	Minister Miranda Mrsic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108964	So that's the European Commission's statement, it's a qualification that's automatically recognised, and that's the European Commission's expression, so all the European Commission nurses have that statement. It is therefore up to us to fit our education system into those requirements that the EU imposes on us. And here we have some problems, and we've already talked about a certain part of the nurses who have worked and who have been educated in one period they meet the criteria, unfortunately part of the nurses in this recent period does not meet the criteria. This is the biggest problem of practice, so the length of practice as far as a nurse is in direct practice during schooling. So this has nothing to do with these problems, so that's the problem with our coordination of our system to this. So he's a health care professional, and that's what the law says, but it's the problem of harmonising our education system with this statement. So this law has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108965	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108966	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support this bill, we assess the law with quality, and we support the fact that we will discuss this law in two readings, although it is a European law that is not necessarily discussed in two readings under our Rules of Procedure. We don't support two readings because we think the law needs to be done exactly the opposite, but now the law is clear and well written and as far as we're concerned, it could be adopted immediately. However, we support two debates with the hope that the debate on this recognition of foreign professional qualifications in regulatory professions will also contribute to the education of both competent authorities and citizens in this area because there is still a lot of misunderstanding in both the professional and the general public around this area. We first passed this law in 2009, we changed it in 2011, we had a little change last year, and then we agreed, in fact, that it was time for a new law. and we support the government in this regard as far as the new law is concerned for at least two reasons. First, this area is relatively new, for some competent bodies absolutely new, so there was a need to clarify some definitions or to resolve some procedures. Secondly, new EU Parliament and Council directives have come into force, which require further harmonisation of our legislation. My colleagues and colleagues, at first I want to point out a very important fact that some may consider to be detail, although it is not a detail. This is about the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, I repeat professional qualifications that must not be mixed with educational qualifications. What's the difference between each other? Educational is the qualification that comes after completing formal education by completing school, college. It's that qualification that we prove by school testimony or a degree in university. The professional qualification we're talking about here today is more than that. It includes, in addition to formal education, professional training regardless of whether it is part of formal education, whether it is acquired through training after education or professional experience through work in the profession. Simplification, professional qualification has been upgraded by the educational qualification of work or practice in the profession. So this law does not talk about the recognition of foreign diplomas and testimonies, this law does not talk about problems related to the recognition of foreign educational qualifications, it is the matter of another law we hope to discuss very soon here in the Parliament, given that the law has already passed a public debate and its speedy reference to the procedure in the Croatian Parliament is expected. What are regulated professions? Again simplified, these are all those professions or groups of professional activities that we cannot carry out unless we have a valid professional qualification and access regulated by some rules or laws. To make it quite clear, most of the profession in Croatia is regulated. The list of regulated professions counts several hundred professions. The last we introduced were, for example, authorized agronomies, last week or before when we voted on the Agronomic Chamber Act. All craftsmanship is a regulated profession, since it is a need to obtain a master's exam at the crafts chamber. Therefore, this law regulates really access to the labour market in the vast majority of professional activities or professions. And in regulated professions, we usually talk about licenses, about the privileges of doing business based on a register in a competent chamber and similar things. Why has there ever been a need for European directives on this subject and then, consequently, for this law of ours? One way to put it, the EU's value is to share the labour market or the single internal market, so it was necessary to establish mechanisms for the citizens of one Member State who possess a certain professional qualification, so to speak without too much anxiety, to work in another Member State, and without particularly passing through the full procedure of re-license or obtaining professional authorisation. The Minister has already pointed out in the opening statement that procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications are being implemented either on the basis of a general or on the basis of an automatic recognition system. We have had this, and in the current regulations, or so far, the law is only now more detailedly prescribing some procedures. I want here to particularly highlight the importance of the education of competent authorities, professional organisations, special chambers or bodies of the state administration that actually carry out these procedures. In the current application, at least according to what citizens have reported to us as problems as representatives, it was precisely one of the major problems that was the incomplete knowledge of all the competent authorities, which mainly referred to chambers but also to some ministries to some state bodies, and to their obligations and powers in these procedures. So it happened that our or a foreign citizen who owns a professional qualification from abroad is asked for more than should be, and it was also worth the reverse that some are automatically recognised qualifications even though they would not have rights for them if they compared the competences that should have been acquired. And we hope that the solutions of this law will be clearer to all those who need to implement them but we also suggest to the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System to make additional efforts in the education of the competent authorities and in particular the chamber. Ideally looking at if a person with a foreign professional qualification and valid evidence of possession of the same, therefore it must also be demonstrated that it exists, if it is addressed to the competent authority it should be granted more or less automatically for work in Croatia. Of course, the same applies to Croatian citizens abroad, especially if they hold a license to carry out that profession in one of the Member States of the European Union. Of course, the competent authorities have an obligation to establish the authenticity of documents proving their professional qualification and may also determine additional measures. It is good that the law now prescribes in which cases complementary measures can be implemented as well as their scope. The additional measures are mainly about having to spend some time on the internship or having to pass some different exams or similar things. When we talk about automatic recognition, which is where there are no additional measures, it's done for now at 7 so-called. sectoral professions for which the minimum training conditions are laid down by law and Directives. It's about doctors of medicine, doctors of dental medicine, nurses of general care, midwives, masters of pharmacies, veterinarians and architects. It is good that the law prescribes all the details here because it is an automatic recognition of professional qualifications and it is necessary to prescribe this in detail in order to protect our professions and people who work in these professions. We in these professions, especially these medical ones, have a lot of problems in recognising foreign professional qualifications but they are primarily caused by the fact that they are acquired in so-called. third countries, countries outside the European Union. As far as our citizens are concerned, it is not about the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina where education and training institutions are not all about education and training in these professions in line with common competence standards or directives. It is therefore good that the law particularly regulates the recognition and the question of the recognition of professional qualifications from the so-called ‘experienced’. third countries and we hope that the application of the law, with the repeat further necessary education of competent chambers and state bodies, will lead to less problems, i.e. fewer misunderstandings and when recognising qualifications from so-called qualifications. third countries. The minister has already said that the biggest newspaper in the law is the introduction of a European professional card. The idea and IPC therefore European professional card and... the system and facilitate administrative cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States as well as cooperation between the competent authorities and the Commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hope that this IPC card system will liven up because it is now replacing this rather simple but most still incomprehensible system of recognition of foreign professional qualifications and fostering mobility. It's final. We at the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law. We hope that now a clearer and more detailed law will, in fact, make it easier for the competent authorities to act and make it easier for our and foreign citizens to access the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108967	Replica Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Lugaric, I agree with most of what you said. There's a little detail that I don't have, but I'll say it right now. I agree primarily with what you have pointed out very well, and that is that there is no wider awareness that there is actually a significant difference between how someone is, or whether someone has acquired professional competences or has some kind of paper, some degree, etc. And I think it's very, very important because it's rare and in everyday life and in concrete examples these things interfere and I think it's very good that you pointed that out. The only thing I couldn't agree with is that this is the perfect law and that I don't need to go to another reading. I, however, commended the ministry because I think it is good to go to second reading precisely because there are certain failures or possibilities to improve so today this discussion and the period between first and second reading can contribute to making better law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108969	Marija Lugarić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108970	I agree that I hope that the discussion here in the Croatian Parliament will show which parts are perhaps not sufficiently understandable to people who are less professionally immersed to say so in this topic and of course that every law has a need, if there is a need and may have the possibility of repairing. And we absolutely support it, and we like it very much that it goes into two readings of the debate itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108971	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108972	Thank you very much. Our colleague Lugarić is pleased that you explained the difference between professional qualifications and education qualifications, so very clearly and very clearly, so we have learned what it is. But what has offered me a replica is your sentence that this law encourages labour mobility within 28 European Union countries. What actually seems to me, may be too difficult to say, but I will use it as a hellish plan which is planned and through statements from senior Croatian government officials that Croatia's benefit in the European Union will be the highest and highest by our workers being able to go to the European Union in fact. And he also said that the need for foreign workers, for foreign labour in Croatia from 6 to 8 thousand, was currently being spoken. Therefore, the plan is already in phase of implementation because you can see that 55,000 workers disappeared in April from the Employment Service. You have no record at all how many professional people with professional qualifications or without qualifications have gone to the countries of the European Union. You don't keep that information at all, you don't run statistics or worry about it at all. But you don't care if you recognise professional qualifications from the countries that you mentioned in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement that plan. Fortunately, it won't last long or yours, so it won't last me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108973	Marija Lugarić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108974	Dear fellow, there are no hellish plans, and I have to admit the paranoias of this guy completely foreign, and I don't think they're using anyone, and especially not the well-being of all our citizens. It is our job to make our citizens and foreign citizens who want to live and work in Croatia do it better, but to build walls around Croatia I am not and I don't think anyone who wants to do good to our people should be allowed to build walls, build fences and lift borders. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108975	On behalf of the Club, representative of the HDZ colleague Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108976	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister. The purpose of the adoption of this law is to fully take over the Croatian legislation Directive 36/05 with an annex adopted by Directive 55/13 because there is an obligation for Croatia to take over and with a deadline for full operational takeover, meaning up to the level of regulations and implementing acts by 18 January of the following year. Unfortunately, this is not fully respected in the proposal for this law before us, so we suggest that some changes, or improvements, be made to another reading. There is a problem in Croatia today with the recognition of professional qualifications, especially doctors and nurses, and the amendment and addition of this important law must also be based on not minor experiences, for example the Croatian Medical Chamber, which it has as the competent body for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications since 1 May 2013 when it has taken over and completed all the items which were found in the Ministry of Health. In fact, problems existed with the recognition of qualifications acquired at some medical schools abroad and acquired abroad, and in particular the multi-stage recognition of professional qualifications has been problematicly demonstrated. Not only did part of the case end up in the Administrative Court, but our citizens mentioned it in their opening address and the minister, who was trained and trained in the countries resulting from the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, avoided and bypassed the recognition of their professional qualifications in Croatia and then went to Austria, Germany or other EU member states for the purpose of recognising their qualifications because they heard from their colleagues that it was very difficult to do so in Croatia. It is therefore important to specify in this law the jurisdiction between the Croatian medical chamber and the Ministry of Health in a way that the Croatian medical chamber is first-degree and the Ministry of Health is second-degree competent authority. That, unfortunately, is not the case in this bill of law. In fact, if this is very clear and wordless, then the Ministry of Health is left with the possibility that the Health Protection Act as a lex specialis regulates the recognition of foreign professional qualifications as it wishes. And that this is what the Ministry obviously wants and that it wants, obviously, further complicated and completely inappropriate procedures for the candidate, has also proved by the draft health care law that is still in the draft at this stage but is widely discussed in the media for the purpose of promoting the health minister and creating the impression that there is a reform in the health care sector, however, in the last days in a negative context, because the draft has been cast out by very serious criticism and disputation. I note that other regulated professions in the directive to which this law applies, for example, architects do not have the slightest problem with their respective ministry but, neatly and independently as a profession, regulate their activity, and the ministry is their second-degree competent authority, which at any time can regulate them in these frameworks. At this time, the same ministry, the Ministry of Health for part of the procedure, for example for the recognition of compulsory internships and professional examinations and the first and second step bodies, is totally unacceptable. We do not understand why a proposal for more professional chambers is not accepted to define some deadlines in the law, which would all be in accordance with the directive, so we suggest that this is also done between the two readings. We also do not understand why this law has not explicitly established that fees for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications are not paid because professional qualifications are recognised only for the purpose of employment and not for the continuation of education. The applicant shall bear, in accordance with the Directive, the real costs of the procedures which make it possible to pay the procedure itself. I repeat, the recognition of professional qualifications within the meaning of this law and of the Directive shall be subject to the rights created and provided for, therefore, for the purpose of employment. Any additional cost is therefore inappropriate. In fact, it is totally inappropriate to force a person to pay even administrative fees for the submissions and administrative actions carried out in accordance with this law. It is just another fiscal imposition that the current government seems reluctant to give up, even when it comes to our citizen being educated outside the country, and who wants to return to Croatia, live and work, although it is constantly for promiscuous purposes that it is precisely such an imposition that they want to reduce. Does the government really not consciously want to facilitate the arrival of the few who want to return to it by not only administrative but also financial obstacles, in a situation where highly qualified doctors and nurses leave Croatia for hundreds of years? That seems incomprehensible. It is not really clear why, like in some other Member States of the European Union, such as Germany or Austria, the recognition of qualifications acquired in third countries is not regulated by a specific law because this is a specific, complex and very sensitive issue. In the debate on the proposal of this law, such proposals were made, but they were ignored and ignored by the government. The reasons to get rid of it legally are that way multiple. First, third countries are not our only neighbouring countries. They may be some very distant and exotic, to us a completely unknown education system which requires more attention, more time to evaluate and a different approach to assess whether experts from them are really as professional as those educated in Croatia or another European Union country. Secondly, deadlines for the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in such countries must simply be longer, and I must make it very clear that the directive allows it. In addition, for such healthcare professionals, the adjustment period, e.g. laying down a test or working in surveillance during a certain period that will certainly need to be specified. In fact, such a person enters our health system, its work will depend on the health and lives of our citizens, so it must be clearly defined in which quality and with what powers he can do so. From concrete remarks, and in relation to nurses, we would suggest that Article 36(1) of the Law be brought into line with the directive in which the word minimum is written. Accordingly, in Article 36(3), point (e) of the proposal we propose to amend it by saying: "the ability to communicate effectively with other healthcare professionals" which would then be in accordance with paragraph 4(h) of the same article. We also suggest, as has already been said, that the whole text of the proposal replaces the sister's statement with the health care of him, which is in the spirit of professional expression of nurses who are in use in Croatia, and this is about translation, it's not about anything but about translation. One of the serious objections to the text of the proposal of this law is that it has no criminal provisions at all. We pointed to such incomprehensible failures in the proposal of some other laws. Is the fact that there are no criminal or infringemental provisions in any particular part of the law or in a separate chapter, but even in the form of certain articles, it suggests that the Government, as a motionary, maintains that their violation is neither worthy of punishment, or that it is just another confirmation of the incredible surface or of the colloquism of the Government as a proposing? So how is this law ever going to be implemented without criminal provisions? Without such provisions, what happens if, for example, one of the ministries that must adopt a regulation within a certain period or a regulation does not do so? And we are witnessing that some of the important rules that some of the laws passed in this House were to be passed within, say, 3 or 6 months, not even a year or even two after the law had been passed. Do you really want to continue with this practice? The second is a serious observation of a similar nature, and this bill as well as many others that we receive at the debate in the Assembly has in the initial section a chapter entitled Assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of the law in which it writes, as in many other proposals of the law, a routine formulation for the implementation of this law does not need to provide additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. First, there should be a statement on the fiscal impact of the law, not only on the potential costs for the state budget. And secondly, there is no law that does not cause any fiscal effects. Some laws require smaller additional funds, some larger ones, and some will lead to even increased inflows into the budget. But it is absolutely pointless to write that the law will not have any financial effects because such a law does not exist or will ever exist. I'm asking the government's representative to pass on to all the other members of the government so they don't write any more nonsense that there's actually no fiscal effect of any law. Here, I'd like to finish it now. I hope these proposals will be accepted until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108977	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108978	Dear colleague Reiner, one of your proposals was to lay down by law the competent authority for the recognition procedures in regulated professions, if I understood correctly what you were saying. It's such an intriguing idea, but I'm afraid it's completely inapplicable to us and completely inoperable. I have now tried to count quickly how many regulated professions there are in Croatia, over 300 of them. And they are determined through the sublaw, so a list of regulated professions that not only brings their list but also the competent authority for each profession but also the legal basis for the regulation of each individual profession. If we were to put into law or by law a competent authority for each individual regulated profession, we would be able to regulate which profession or how we pass which law we must constantly amend and this law. And it's not usually no practice, and I don't think it's good, that kind of thing to write in law. We, for example. Let's pass the law and then we've got that here's what I'm going to do again. I'm going to repeat the Agronomics Chamber and authorized agronomists, and then we need to change the law to determine the competent authority for this regulated profession. And to make the difference between regulated professions of one or the other, if you thought of these 7 sectoral to say so, I don't think it's good because all professions are equally important in both the labour market and the Croatian legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108979	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108980	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Lugaric, I'm afraid you misunderstood me. Of course I didn't mean for all professions to do it. I said in my own words that the very ones that have been isolated here, and as such, it is necessary to clearly define the two-stage procedure. So, specifically to be first-degree in chambers and second-degree in the ministry when jurisdiction is not resolved. And such a text is not said to solve it then we will have a situation as well as so far where problems of jurisdiction and level of jurisdiction arise that does not exist at this time as I said two-stage procedure. So my commitment was to these professions that were set aside here, and of course not for everyone because I agree with you that it could create major problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108981	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108982	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'll tell my colleague Reiner what I said again, every honor of this harmonisation and this Directive 35, and in that part of this desire to allow equal access in some way to everyone, but surely it is necessary to raise awareness and detailed rules and common competence standards but certainly give attention and emphasis in this part where you spoke about nurses and doctors. This deserves special attention and in that section about nurses I was saying something, you explained in detail about sister care, health care, and it certainly stands. But surely as far as the doctor is concerned, the opinion should be respected, the opinion of the Croatian Medical Chamber. Namely, if we have defined ourselves for a medical chamber that works both on professional training, licensing and all other jobs, and we do not really need to repeat these data to say how high-quality and professional our doctors are, this departure is unfortunately happening. But we certainly have to look at it now and in these circumstances of this new draft bill that it's still, it's still out there, but it's already being discussed. Surely one quality public debate should be held because it is the concern that the mayors also stressed yesterday that these rural areas may be left without health care. The availability will be compromised, but of course if some other principles are accessed and quality is certainly questionable. In any case, it is necessary to respect both the chamber and these two professions in a special way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108983	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108984	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague, I am pleased that you agree with what I said, and I think it is necessary to point out once again this very important fact that you have mentioned, and that is the fact that almost 1000 doctors have taken documents from the Croatian medical chamber probably indicating their interest and desire to go abroad, and we know that over a hundred have indeed gone away in the last year. You don't know numbers for nurses, because you don't know how many so-called. Middle nurses are gone, but about five hundred are assumed. We are witnessing that in 2014 more than 40,000 people left the country mostly young, highly educated people. So an entire city almost Dubrovnik's size. We have naturally become part of the European Union, our citizens, our doctors, our nurses, young, highly educated people have become wanted and appreciated in the EU. However, their departure is not only a damage financially, invaluable to Croatia when we know how much schooling costs young people, experts, doctors, nurses, but the damage is far greater. Because the best, most capable, most educated who should have been our future in 10 or 20 years is leaving and surely it's one of the very important aspects that we have to look at when we talk about any law, and then this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108985	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108986	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, and I would like to welcome the Deputy Minister of State of Sthubel. I will, on behalf of, present the position of the SDSS club on this bill very carefully, because I have no ambition to enter the profession. I agree with my previous colleagues that this whole thing needs to be called a profession and then it has its own special weight. But I have to look back on behalf of the club on certain things that we don't think are in this text until the end. We will accept this bill by simply being too important a law, by just being the law that, the text that goes into the first reading. So there's still the possibility that it can be done in quality. Very authoritatively, previous colleagues said the reasons for bringing this text. Of course, compliance with the European Directive is a fundamental thing, but at the same time also another motive, another reason why our young people, our young experts, will be almost equal in the labour market within the EU market. Just enough reason to approach the adoption of such a legal text. We also think it's a good idea to introduce that so-called. European professional card as an identification card, a universal, universal means of communication in that section, in that segment, so this is all kind of acceptable for us. However, in a few sentences, I will refer to the provisions, give articles to chapter 84 practically chapter VIII. which refers to the recognition of foreign professional qualifications acquired in third countries because we pointed to similar issues when we talked about educational agencies and some other things. And we think that this article 84 is only open to the possibility that the problem of recognising the professional qualifications acquired in third countries is regulated. If we hadn't regulated it here as completely practical, we just pointed out the problem. This is also evident from Article 3 of Article 84, which states that additional conditions for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications acquired in countries, third countries and how these conditions are met, as well as detailed procedures, etc. etc. they may be regulated by a special law or by a regulation of the department of the central authorities. That's all. So through this undefined definition, there was a very serious problem. Practically, it was not only a problem that was being arranged, but it touched a series of life fates that I was going to tell you about later. We also see that in Article 87(4), the same thing applies to asylum seekers and foreigners. Practically, people who are Croatian citizens with this definition, who are Croatian citizens, and with the circumstances, their studies ended because of some migration of their parents in neighbouring countries, countries of the former Yugoslavia. So, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, they are equal to asylum seekers in all the elements because that is how the provision of Article 84 is defined. Of course we don't like it, we think we should have made a clearer distinction here because it's not about the same position or the same people. We can't say that some asylum officer who is now going to have the same treatment as a Croatian citizen who graduated from the school in Sarajevo, Belgrade and Novi Sad, due to these developments in the Middle East. It is also stated in Article 87 that the competent authority may allow access to the regulated profession, etc. etc. It's a pretty comprehensive definition and we think that this kind of serious legal text should be more decoded in its own words. So the category of people who need to acquire professional qualifications and previous education has been acquired in third countries then referred to the chamber and the chamber should carry out the complete process of acquiring professional qualifications. Some experiences say that it is not, so that's the only possible solution I don't know, but it's not a good solution because the chambers in this whole thing don't quite work out the best way because the process of recognising the professional qualifications that they carry out the chambers is quite long, it's often measured and for years, it's complicated and it's particularly expensive. I will remind you here that when it comes to recognising the professional qualification of doctors in front of the chamber, this procedure takes about 2 years, and that the student costs about 50 thousand kunas, which is no small amount of money, negligible money when it comes to a man, a young man who has yet to start working and to start his first existence. The conditions of the competent chamber that the competent chambers were setting were very questionable, it was mainly about taking a large, difference of large, large number of exams, somewhere in some cases, some of the examples we had of even 60 new exams, it was about practical work in practical work in the profession where even five hundred hours to be done, etc. etc. But what's most unacceptable to us is that chambers don't have a solid principle program or attitude about it, but these things change, people who, the students of such tests, are starting with one assumption, and in the meantime, these circumstances are significantly corrupt in their favor, or are making conditions very difficult. We have warned several times about these situations especially in the field of health and education. The truth about education has really been arranged, but health care remains an alarming condition. You have now, for example, in Knin space, Ervenik you have a dozen young people who have returned and otherwise are Croatian citizens, I remind you, they have returned to their home area, they have done a traineeship, they have to approach the position of professional training, they come across these peripetias, they are an unsettled system of laying in chambers, and simply these people are losing motive to further perfect themselves and people are most likely to leave. And we now have the fact that in a Ervenik where people are not exactly being kidnapped to work, because it is not an attractive space at all would be much more attractive to come to work in a city, but in Ervenik, people still want to work in this Ervenik, to start their family, and we tell them because of the unspecified administrative barriers you will find it difficult to get a job here because you will find it difficult to get to that level of professional qualification. I don't think that's a good thing if today we're talking about the fact that somewhere around 200 thousand young people have come out with a tendency to get out of Croatia, it's a fragrant figure, I don't know if I'm going to make a mistake that 8,000 doctors have left Croatia, some say more. And then we have one potential here that, and because of some bureaucratic indiscretion, we're throwing too lightly. We expect that in the open European market, the most professional health staff will come to us in Ervenik or Kistanje, or to me in Bela Manastar, we probably expect it to be German top experts, and I say it will not, I think it will be experts from less-paid areas of the EU and I think it will be some kind of negative selection and profession and quality of our health service and all that. So to say why I said this, I had a need to point out the fact that Article 84, in my statement, allowed this problem to be settled. I ask the question why it has not been more detailed when the intention to do so has already been made, to remove all these dilemmas, to remove various speculations about how this professional qualification will be acquired through the chambers so that if it all comes down to the rules then it is a rather uncertain situation for these young people why in the article, in chapter 8, we have not worked out in more detail and provided these people with some procedural, stronger guarantees that they will, under defined conditions, be better known to acquire these foreign or acquired professional qualifications. I repeat, it is about citizens who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and have acquired their education in so-called "the Republic of Croatia". third countries, which are actually our neighbouring countries in colleges that still have very high reputations of expertise, even at European level. I accept this legal proposal in my first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108987	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108988	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Horvat, I'm glad you agree with me when I advocated that the issue of those who come from third countries be resolved by a special law. That's how it's done both in Germany and Austria, and I think it'd be good to get rid of it with us. I'm one whole set of reasons, you've listed some other reasons by looking at it on the bright side, but you should look on the darker side because unfortunately there are great differences in competences that occur in certain countries. And as it comes to very sensitive professions, then it is very necessary for them to really be competent experts because they are dependent on people's health, people's lives, etc. You may be misinformed by the story of the 60 exams doesn't stand at all because there's no entire Medical School 60 exams, there's not even about 50 thousand kunas that have to be done because it's expensive but it's much less, fortunately. And I said it was too expensive. And also the expert exam has nothing to do with the chambers like you said, the expert exam is shown in the ministry, and it has nothing to do with the chambers. But in principle, what you said is consistent with what I said. I personally also think that it is necessary to make a special law, not only to make it easier for those who are Croatian citizens to come here, but also to guarantee other Croatian citizens who will treat you, to take care of them health care that the people who care about them really have those competences that they must have. Because I repeat, it's a very sensitive matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108989	Mile Horvat, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108990	Thank you, esteemed colleague Reiner. Anyway, I can't argue with you about the professional aspect, and I don't have that ambition. And I agree with you that this matter should have been perhaps not subject to special law but perhaps should have been more detailedly processed under this law. That's the problem. I may have misread some details, but I also have some documents about costing, etc. It doesn't matter now. The point is that these young people are quite in doubt because they don't have the right information about what they have to do because we haven't arranged it. The medical profession is, you yourself said, a very sensitive thing, health is the most important thing, the most responsible job in society is probably the one. No one says that study programmes should not be compared or differences of exams, etc. rather than the fact that in one legal text, this sensitive matter should have been much more specific and much more detailed in our opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108991	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke labor colleagues Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108992	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. First, I would like to show in some way the satisfaction of such a law when working or harmonising a directive or amending a directive goes through two readings which is practically a good way to which we have always warned that we should give little time to representatives or to dictate or in part to consult with part of the profession and then we have time to do another reading that eventually and some mistakes which are in law indicated and correct in such a way and there I fully support my colleague Reiner who said that there should be certain criminal provisions for breaking certain rules in the law. Because I'm the law if there's no part of the criminal code then it sends one message that they can be broken and then it has no purpose. The colleagues had previously made it clear when it comes to recognising the qualifications of the moment Croatia entered the EU, then it is no dispute that we have become a single market and labour force, but the question of recognising qualifications must be equally uniformly processed in all 28 EU countries and it is clear that this law is going in that direction and that we cannot be in addition to this part of clearly certain small remarks concerning its correction to the second reading that it is possibly being corrected. And what I want to point out in one part specifically, and this is a question that we cannot stop the flow of particularly qualified people, and we are primarily talking about doctors, and we have some data, and there are 800, 1000 doctors who are planning to leave or possibly have already gone to those countries where they are given better working conditions, where they are better paid, and that is the question that we have to start thinking about in Croatia in a different way. Is as long as we don't arrange it with us and create better conditions for the work of professional competent people, until we give them a quality reward we will have a loss that these experts will go or go where they will be paid better or have better conditions, and it is clear that this and the damage to Croatia in some way is that, when they leave here, they are educated, here they are spent on them, and their working life elsewhere is done. According to some data, around 12% of the working population went outside Croatia from Croatia. And now if we compare that data to how much it comes from abroad in Croatia we can say that one part is from countries in the environment and that is especially Bosnia and Herzegovina, one part Serbia, Macedonia. But from the Western countries, very few from the European Union countries. Perhaps in that part will come some of the workforce, and in this part of the qualified workforce with certain competences but only where there is a lower labour price and where conditions are worse. This is what practically in Croatia we need to seriously start thinking and creating conditions and I'm afraid that we are not on that path, especially when we talk about doctors, especially when we talk about nurses. In addition, we must point out that part of the special problem of nurses who are around 32,000 in Croatia. I don't know about some data I've seen it's also a deficit workforce in Croatia. They're not at the employment office. But there is also a part of the problem of 32 thousand, somewhere around 7 thousand, satisfying this part of the qualification required by both this law and the European Union until 25 thousand can't get that license, and that is the question and the negotiations of the problem that occurred at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union, which was not taken into account. And maybe it was done on purpose knowing that nurses could go to other countries in such a way. And since the deficit labour force is also clear that Croatia would be in an uninvited situation. Although nurses are highly recognised in other countries, there is a simple question, all they do in Croatia can't do it abroad but can't practically do it in this profession, they can also care for something else without a licence. I know that the problem is being handled, and I would like that problem to be solved as soon as possible and that those 25 thousand nurses are in the same condition when it comes to their competences and their qualifications that they have equal conditions. And it is primarily up to us to take care of it through the system, through regulation of relationships, through quality regulation of their work issues, to keep them and to stay here in Croatia. I have to be here when we talk in some way and about the free market of workers there have been a lot of talk these days about whether we have fewer unemployed 55,000 workers. I can say that we have 55,000 less at the Employment Service but not less unemployed workers, it's a matter of data that comes out in a way that makes them beautiful and creates a completely different picture inside of it because all the data that tells us, tells us that there has been no greater employment in this period, and that is the part of the biggest problem in Croatia. And until they start opening up in most of the more jobs, then we'll have this situation that young people and qualified people will go abroad to us. Because I will only try in some way because of the wrong interpretations in the public when we talk about the number of employees just say in some way several data that the number of employees according to statistics in 2012 to 2015 we have fewer 64 thousand 360 employees. When we talk about pension insurance data, what some specifically look at, then in the same period, we have 67,000 358 fewer employees. So both data are very close and then we can't talk about that part that we still have 55 thousand unemployed in Croatia because these data that speak for these first 4 months that there hasn't been any more employment, but it's practically just about showing certain data and what people simply don't see being registered at the employment office because they don't think it's going to make it easier for them to get to work. They've lost all will and eventually they're not applying, they're looking for a job themselves, so if they get a job, they're gonna get a job and they're gonna get on the record. It is clear that there is this information about which it is also said that we do not have the data of how many people have gone since we entered the European Union outside Croatia. Because it's really a flaw, we really should deal with it and have clear data and then inside that and talk about certain numbers. It is clearly interesting and very interesting that the one that is here today is published when it comes to Eurostat that they talk about the number of employees and take away somewhere and that part of the workers who work on black and hence, the data of 150 thousand workers in Croatia is working on black and their data is then we find more employment than this statistical data that I was talking about, where over a million 560 thousand workers are spoken. Here's the part where I think it's good. Croatian Labourists will support this law in their first reading, it is necessary, but we certainly have to take care of it when it comes to professional qualifications as to how these people are kept in Croatia because if they have been educated here, if they have done their profession clearly, they will go where their better conditions are and we must make an effort as a society to keep them here. Here's their home, and here they'd like to probably work very much rather than in some other countries, maybe even at a lower labour price, and that's the thing that we really need to think about in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108993	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108994	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Tušak, you have rightly pointed out the problem that we are in danger, that indeed young people do not go to the European Union in a greater number, primarily because they do not have adequate working conditions here, not only at pay. And I believe that all in this assembly, independently of their political definition, share the opinion that our youngsters must not become Croatia's largest export product. Over the last three years, we have recorded, especially since we entered the European Union an enormous growth of young people, but those educated with rarely their spouses, wives and little children, who leave Croatia with the idea not as they used to when uneducated people with the idea of staying 10 or 20 years, send money and support their family in Croatia, and then come back and open up some business rather than the idea of their future coming out of Croatia. Of course, it affects our future because they will stay out, their children will be born out there, and our Natalie, who is as disastrous as she is, will be even worse, and I think we just all have to talk about it, you don't hear enough about it. I often get the impression, I sometimes talk about it, I get the impression that those who should hear me mostly immediately and say, so it's not important now, we have much more important problems now and then we rarely argue about some completely irrelevant things from the past, etc., and we don't watch what happens before our eyes and what will significantly affect Croatia's future. That, of course, concerns the medical profession that you mentioned correctly. The fact is that in hospitals today, we have far fewer sisters than doctors and patients have other countries. The fact is that we have fewer doctors, we have 2.9 doctors, and European Union countries have an average of 3.4 doctors per 10,000 inhabitants. So the fact is that these are deficiting occupations and going out, and we're staying here and we don't know clearly...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108995	Time. Zlatko Tušak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108996	Thank you. So, fellow Reiner, I fully agree with you, young people are the future of this country. In one part, I am glad that the ministry's measures are going to the part where individual employers and have certain privileges, employment of young people up to 30 years, is through that part of the tax exemption, which is a good measure. But it's not a good measure in a way because older people over 55, 50 years old when they lose their jobs, they'll never get a job again, they'll be on the labour market, and that's what I warned them about. They'll be there for a while, they'll lose their will, and they won't even apply to the Employment Service anymore, and they'll get lost from these records, and we'll be giving statistics on how much better they are, how we have fewer unemployed, which is not good. I am in favour of measures to help young people, but in a way others must be protected, and that is the question that we simply have to turn to the opening of jobs because leaving young people, starting a family in other countries clearly is not good for Croatia, so the data that tells us about the birth rate and this part of leaving that Croatia will eventually have 3.5 million inhabitants by 2050. That's the data we should be worried about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108997	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108998	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Tušak, I agree with your debate. And I noticed these allegations that my colleague Reiner spoke of, of course, and concerned about the outflows of ours and our doctors and nurses, and in that part, I think everything is said. But I am glad that you have stressed the importance of both nurses and doctors, so they are the pillar of the health system, and of course the guarantee of quality and availability, and in that sense we should certainly think about all these remarks about it. But I want to point out again that there is no way to interfere with the mind of rural areas. I, in this part that already has immense difficulties in functioning, in creating available and quality healthcare and now these ideas, drafts that highlight some other direction really give cause for concern and therefore expect a quality public debate where we could present and put all the comments in this regard on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u108999	Zlatko Tušak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109000	Thank you. Well, colleague Milinkovic, we totally agree. Health care is a very sensitive issue and concerns all the inhabitants of this country and those of young and old and medium age, especially the elderly who are more ill. And clearly, any reform of health care is a very sensitive issue, and within that, we need to have a very high quality public debate. The profession must also be highly consulted on this, and we must, based on the arguments and on the facts, sometimes we would like to have no more resources to do so. But what consequences will be within it and on the health of the citizens and on their treatment, etc. This must all be seen through this part of the public debate. Finally, when will we pass this law that we bring it into the interest of the citizens of this Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109001	Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109002	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Tušak, with most of your debate, I fully agree. What prompted me to replicate to you is when you came up with statistics relating to the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia with data on 2011, the 12th year. In order for the data to be more clear, it would be good to see that number of employees in that time how many workers did not receive their salaries and how many they do not receive with the same data now, regardless of what this Parliament has brought very firm legislation on non-payment of salaries to workers. Still at the job, we did not apply this regulation in reality in this action. I think the results on employees who are now on the record are that they are, to the most extent, getting paid, which is basically, which is normal, but at the time of 2011, somewhere over 80,000 workers were on the employee list, and none of which benefited either the state, the budget or the workers who worked. But I agree with your percentage... I think it would be good that way if we took one statistical piece of data and looked at it unilaterally, it could drag us to the wrong side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's good to inform both the public and everything in which we look at statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109003	Zlatko Tušak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109004	Thank you. My colleague Mandic, I agree that we need to look at all the statistics and the truth is, we had 80,000 workers who didn't receive the pay back then. But we still have to say now that we have 36,000 workers who don't get paid. So in that part there's a reduction in the number of workers, but there's also a decrease in the number of those who generally work much more than this difference in number. And most of all, when we talk about non-payment of salaries, then I have to draw attention to companies that are owned by the Republic of Croatia, so these workers are not paid wages, which is hardly a positive example to private employers. Because what they say, if the company that owns it, the state doesn't pay the wages, so why should I pay the wages? We talked and we introduced the law, the crime of default but we set up that part of the fence if there's an account block or so. Then the employer doesn't have to pay the salary, and we know very easily that it can sometimes be done that one company blocks the other company in a way with fictional accounts and that I don't say what else, so we don't have to pay the workers' wages, which is not good anyway. Workers must be paid for their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109005	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Ljiljana Cvetović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109006	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Pensions Party welcomes the drafting of the Proposal for a Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. In the debate, it will briefly address a number of proposed solutions that we hold to be supplemented or made more clear. In the text of the bill, instead of the word "competence", we suggest using the Croatian word "training". Article 18 provides for the possibility for the competent authority to request the applicant to implement one of the additional measures in the process of recognising an international professional qualification. Period of adjustment up to three years or qualification check. The proposed formulation is not sufficient for some cases where candidates do not meet the conditions as proposed by the law. It is therefore necessary to lay down a provision that, where the competent authority finds that the differences in qualifications are so important that they cannot be compensated either for the verification of skills or for the adjustment period, it will refuse to apply for recognition of the foreign professional qualification. Article 12 of the same article deals with a case where the applicant does not satisfy the qualification test. We are of the view that the candidate should be allowed to take the qualification exam three times in longer time spaces, so we propose the next amendment to paragraph 12. In the event that the applicant is not satisfied with the qualification test, he may apply for repeating the qualification test in the same procedure within 30 days of the day from which he has failed the qualification test. If the candidate does not meet the test within the time limit, he may re-access to the qualification test within 60 days of the day when he has failed the re-test. If the applicant fails to satisfy the qualification test in the third attempt, the competent authority will reject the application for recognition of foreign professional qualifications by means of a solution. It is also necessary to install a provision that the candidate is not satisfied in the third attempt to verify the skills of losing the right to re-application of requests for recognition of foreign professional qualifications. We propose to delete Article 19, paragraph 4, which allows the competent authority to request the opinion of a competent professional organisation, an appropriate educational institution or assistance centre in the procedure of recognition of an external professional qualification. We believe that it is necessary to leave a comparison of the documentation to the competent authority because including competent institutions as proposed in this article raises the responsibility in the event of a candidate’s appeal to a temporary solution which is an integral part and the opinion of the competent educational institution on acquired education and the outcomes of the learning of candidates. Article 20 introduces the possibility of partial access to the regulated profession. It is necessary to define more clearly what is considered a partial approach to a regulated profession. The fact that some professions involve greater responsibility, for example, should certainly be borne in mind. in the field of health care where in order to protect and ensure patient safety, the possibility of partial access to the regulated profession should be considered in general. In Article 86(1), we propose a formulation as referred to in Article 18(3), the competent authority shall compare the documentation on the professional qualifications of candidates. In paragraph 6, we propose the formulation and rules of the supplementary measure as defined for the general recognition system defined in Article 18.12., with the definition of the loss of the right to re-application of applications in case of non-compliance with the third qualification check. We propose the addition of Article 87 for the sake of the fact that the new law is more concrete and clearer, and the old law in some parts is vague and unclear and therefore unfavourable for the candidate. The updated article would read: "The procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications will begin under the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, and in which cases a temporary solution will be adopted, according to the provisions of the law on which they are initiated. The other procedures will continue according to the provisions of the new law." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109007	Replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109008	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Cvetovic, you've made a whole series of concrete proposals, which actually gave me just one idea for something else we haven't talked about today, and maybe it would be necessary. Almost all countries are seeking to know the official language of the country as one of the preconditions for recognition of qualifications. And we should probably take care of that when further editing the process of recognition of professional qualifications, such as the Croatian language and the official language of the EU, especially in some professions such as medical. is knowledge of language one of the fundamentals, must be one of the fundamental conditions of communication. How if you don't know, you can be a top expert, if you don't know the language of the country you work in, I'm afraid you'll find it difficult to communicate with your patients and function normally. Well, here's as clean as one might be to supplement a whole series of your concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109009	Replication response, Ljiljana Cvetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109010	Well, I think that in the recognition of any degree, it's assumed that man should at least be partially familiar with the language. Because without it, he can't perform any duties, but I didn't talk about it in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109011	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109012	Also, counterparts Cvetovic on Croatian language, however. Article 21 of the Law states that the holder of a professional qualification recognised by an international professional qualification must know the Croatian language necessary to carry out a regulated profession and that the competent authority is obliged to ensure that control. So that's legally defined. However, you have proposed in your debate a proposal to replace the word competence with the word "training". They didn't do the same thing. And it's not a good word to replace one word with another. I have checked the Croatian language on the language portal, competence means recognised expertise or the ability of someone to have. Training is a patient form of word to train what it means to make someone capable. There is little finesse in the language and indeed we as original speakers can recognize that difference in Croatian, but I think it was not good because it simply does not work the same way in Croatian language, and competence is just as Croatian word as it is competence. In the context of this law, it is really about competence and not just about training. Because that's exactly the difference between the professional and educational qualifications I've talked about before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109013	On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109014	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Assistant. At first, we would like to point out that the HNS Club will accept the above-mentioned bill. A lot of things have been said, some things we will skip, and we would support the discussion of a colleague from the SDP or SDP club and a colleague, Lugaric. The second thing that I would, or the third thing that we would like to point out is that it seems to us in HNS that this is a very complex one not to say a complicated law. It is not a simple law and it is very important and it is necessary, in reading this law it needs to be really well concentrated in order to be able to get out exactly what it takes to read certain things correctly and to be able to get out of it, so that the citizens of some kind of expert who comes to work in Croatia can know what he needs and not just him, but also those who valorise those qualifications. But all of this in HNS always brings us back somewhere to some start, and that is that the EU is one of the largest and most significant intergeative, i.e. the largest and most significant intergetive political process in mankind's history. But the most significant or most valuable in this process for us is, in our opinion, the main motive and then the consequence of the creation of the EU. The motive was to create lasting peace while it was only a community of coal and steel, and the consequence was the most advanced, the largest, most significant economic and technological and trade society in the world with citizens who enjoy the greatest possible freedoms and live by the highest possible social standards on the globe. The EU's values are, among other things, clear mobility of citizens, simple and without barriers to the business of all business entities, a free market for every entrepreneur of over 550 million people and the highest standards of human and civil rights, human rights and civil freedoms in general. The state was created so that we free, self-aware individuals decided to live in an orderly society and thus created a state. We have transferred some of our personal freedoms to that same country and we are paying it neatly to do certain jobs for us primarily to ensure our safety, and then to help us realise the basic ambitions and development of personal talents. By entering full EU membership for every citizen and citizen of Croatia, the possibilities for realising personal ambitions to unsuspecting proportions have increased. Practically everyone in Croatia can plan life for themselves or for their child within the EU and for their family within the EU, practically dream life from education, to employees, or from imagining their lives to achieving their specialities and realising their personal talents. In this respect, the EU is day-to-day editing and supplementing regulations to make such ambitions as easy and realistic as possible. Today, we are facing one of these rules of law in the EU, which is called the Directive or in the EU, are called Directives or regulations. Since we at the HNS Club usually speak in principle to the public we should certainly repeat a part of what is said, or what is written. This law regulates the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for access and the exercise of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia and the conditions for the free provision of services on the basis of foreign professional qualifications. It is regulated to provide services on a temporary and occasional basis based on foreign professional qualifications, i.e. the right of citizens of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation to provide, on a temporary and occasional basis, their services in the Republic of Croatia without commercial establishment in the Republic of Croatia. A general system of recognition of foreign professional qualifications is being arranged for the purpose of exercising the right to establish professional qualifications holders who wish to have a business establishment in the Republic of Croatia and to carry out a specific regulated profession. The automatic system of recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the purpose of exercising the right to business and the three means of recognition of professional qualifications differ within the automatic system. The minimum conditions of training in the Republic of Croatia for accessing and performing a profession of doctors of medicine, medical specialists, dental medicine doctor, dental medicine doctor and specialist, nurses responsible for the activities of the general physician, midwife, pharmacist of pharmacies, doctor of veterinary medicine and architects are being arranged. This thing about architects one more time later, just one little cartoon. The introduction of a European professional mole is arranged, an important thing. The use of professional names and names acquired after the completion of higher education as well as the conditions of partial access to certain professional activities and the recognition of the traineeship carried out outside the home Member State shall be regulated. Finally, recognition is arranged very important for us, the recognition of foreign professional qualifications acquired in third countries is arranged. The most important newspaper of the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications is the introduction of a European professional card for individual professions. It is an electronic card which will be issued through the Internal Market Information System to professional qualifications holders who wish to exercise their right to work in another EU Member State, and the card will simplify and speed up the overall process of recognising foreign professional qualifications. The establishment of common competence standards and thus common competence frameworks and joint examinations for certain regulated professions in practice will mean a faster recognition of professional qualifications in professions for which common competence standards are established. These are the conclusions drawn from the assessment of the state and effect of this law. I would like to point out one fact of our entry and our presence at EU forums, which is that Germany does not recognise Croatian architects' diplomas. At our initiative, the European Commission has ordered Germany to admit it, and at this point it is the process where Germany is forced to recognise the diplomas of our architects. This is one of the contributions of what it means to sit at the same table in the EU, and it is directly related to the topic we are talking about. Article 5 for the interested public, which is interested, lists specific concepts which, in their interpretation, specify what this law practically refers to. Chapter 3 regulates the general system of recognition of foreign professional qualifications in the exercise of the right to a business creation with a very complex procedure. However, in the law itself, because of the diversity in the way of education in certain countries, the former countries are prescribed very precise rules of the automatic system of recognition of foreign professional qualifications and minimum training conditions for regulated sectoral professions. Finally, Directive 2013/55 of the EU of 2013 amending Directive 2005/36/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications and of EU Regulation No 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the internal market information system has entered into force. This proposal for a law harmonizes our legislation with that directive, which is the obligation of all Member States by 18.1.2016. Therefore, the law allows for the improvement of existing qualifications recognition arrangements, and also puts emphasis on the guarantee of freedom of business creation. Access to the profession allows for further access to the profession as well as to enable domestic citizens to continue to provide and provide minimum conditions for the access and exercise of the profession of medical specialists, nurses responsible for the activities and general care, midwives, masters of pharmacies, doctor of veterinary medicine, architects as well as the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. And in conclusion, the law allows the transposition of the directive into our legal order, which is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia, but there are, in our opinion, certain shortcomings in the law itself that should be removed by second reading. For example. There is no possibility of rejection anywhere in the case of an excessive difference in qualifications, which cannot be removed from the envisaged measures. Or secondly, the law does not care enough about the different degrees of medical nurses' education. But, as we already said at the beginning... to make their work and life ambitions come true throughout its territory and all segments. [[/The speaker reads too fast, he doesn't understand.]] One of the regulations that governs it makes this law possible. With those remarks on possible improvements until the second reading, the HNS club of Liberal Democrats will accept the bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109015	Thank you. We have one replica, the Honorable Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Blažekovic, two small remarks. One thing you said in the last sentence is that the law doesn't care about the level of education. But I have to agree with my colleague, Lugaric, the law speaks of competences. Therefore, the degree of education is one thing, and competence is another and we need to focus on it. However, I would like to, and I need to clarify one other thing so that it does not remain inexplicable, and that is a question of language. Of course, Article 7 mentions the language, but it mentions incredible authority, so it should have knowledge of Croatian language for the purpose of performing a profession in the case of professions that may have consequences for public health and the safety of recipients. You just need to know your language, that's one thing, and that's how you mention it, you need to know your language. We know today that this is quantified and everywhere and in various other laws, it's known exactly, there's an A,B,C, and then one that should have a language degree. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that here, as in many other occasions, we treat our own language very lightly, often we don't insist on it, we rarely give it up easily. And here in this law is a very precise definition of the number of hours that someone must have theoretical and practical skills, and here it's not written at all if he might be C if he could be B, if A knowledge of language etc. And language, language is a fundamental feature of national identity. Therefore, more attention must simply be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109017	On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109018	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Speaking of languages and when we started an informal debate without microphones here, if there were an article 21 that regulates that matter but only by power, it would be said on the surface. So when you go anywhere to Europe and if you want some kind of confirmation of the knowledge of French-English then you have degrees of knowledge, active, passive service, etc. Here in our law, the official act of the Republic of Croatia does not have any graduation of knowledge of Croatian. Even more so, I was called by some construction assistants of our BiH people that they could not work in Croatia without a six-month Croatian language course, that they had to attend Croatian for 6 months and BiH. So you know what I'm saying is that if it is in any other form it's called in Bosnia or Bosniak or whatever, but it's very, very similar and can be very well agreed on in that language in any profession and with people in Croatia. I worked in Prijedor for 15 years as a surgeon, I had the opportunity to have a nurse from Ukraine who was... on the ground in Ukraine so people fell in love and she came to live in Prijedor with him and worked as a nurse in a surgical clinic and then she would go out and ask the patient who was waiting in the waiting room and what about you. And then they said that they understood even so when she said in professional communication, she used to say that the patient had cohabilitated instead of collapsing but well, it was all in the service that we could somehow agree on. When we talk about my paranoia, as one said, with quite a heavy accusation and in fact with an inconclusive voice, therefore with a voice behind which there was no firm basis so that Croatia and this law actually implement a policy that is not in line with the policies of the HDSB and not the Croatian national being. In being back a few years and last year she was very intense about leaving our young educated people abroad. It's not a '65 economic reform. the years when 200 thousand Croats mostly with weaker school supplies went after bread to the so-called. temporary work abroad and has temporarily lasted until they have returned them back to Croatia or Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today, young, educated, and unemployed people leave and those who have a family leave with their families. With families leaving, only individuals left and the family stayed here to say Alexa Shantic, stay here. So they're leaving with the families. In Dublin there is, I have paranoia, but in Dublin there is a club where there are either 1100 people from Osijek, mostly highly educated or with high school supplies and they have a club called "Second in Dublin". So I have paranoia but by 1.7, maybe that paranoia will be with me and less when Germany and some other countries that have had a 2-year moratorium to move in and be able to get a job, a job in Germany, when the 1.7 moratorium falls, when the ban on coming to Germany does so. Only then will you see how much paranoia I have when Slavonia has already relaxed and when she is half of those displaced in Ireland, part of Finland, some in Sweden, some in black working in Germany for 3 months and in a number of other countries. That is why it is a success to praise the prime minister of this government that 55,000 people are less at the employment office. I checked out the employment services, some of them checked out and saw that in the first 3 months of last year, so there was more new employment than in the first 3 months of 2015. On any basis, temporary work, occasional work or indefinitely. But the number of unemployed, pardoned the number of fired from the employment office increased significantly in 2015 in the first 3 months than in the first 3 months 2014. What does that mean? You're interpreting whatever you want, so statistics are interesting science, but the fact and reality is not paranoia that these data are very closely related to human migration. If he stays in Ireland, of course, those three months cannot apply to the employment office and is deleted from the records. As many as they are, the state doesn't care at all, this government doesn't care at all. She doesn't do so-called. a deep analysis or an examination of how many people in Croatia have gone, so let's go for 2014, any year of their authority, not to speak now about the one before the Government when that phenomenon may have been slightly less. But people always, labour mobility always exists. What else does this law bring? It brings to Chapter 8 which regulates recognition, according to counterpart Lugaric, professional qualifications for persons coming from 3 countries. It's like at the airport you have a citizen of the EU and then the other ones. Well, then we went there to the ones where there's a lot of traffic and there's no one here. So here and here. There will be a great crowd for those other citizens from the 3rd countries who will trust me in the lack and because of the departure and forced departure of Croats from Croatia, therefore it is possible for Croats to work in the European Union and it is only a flossula. So this is the success of even this government, it introduced Croatia into the European Union and now it has made it possible for us to become in Germany, Finland, Ireland, etc., so the arrival of those from the 3rd countries will be forced. This is where immigrants are mentioned. Italy is still the main country to which Lampedus and Sicily come, etc., but we can expect some other locations and places in the European Union that will be interesting for those asylum seekers as well. What will happen when we apply such a law? So the 3rd countries, it's not xenophobia, it's reality, the 3rd countries are both the Republic of Moldova and the Transnistria, and you have as many countries as you want in the 3rd century., Albania and I don't know, whatever countries you want along with, of course, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, etc.... What will happen is what happens, as a colleague who spoke before me said, and you didn't call him xenophobe, a colleague from Labourist, what he said and what I said in my first line. Think about it and imagine Croatia 2050 if 3.5 million people like this. There's one song that might be that xenophobic "distribute us" mentions the verse. And now you think a little bit about that song of the century 7. So the law itself speaks of three things that are prescribed. It's her so-called. as the minimum conditions for training with common competence standards and on the EPC or European professional card, as you wish, English or Croatian, which then allows for easier identification and recognition of professional qualifications and employment in any of the Member States of the European Union. Of course, the law itself explained in its articles the possibility of a business creation in the Republic of Croatia, given these three main conditions. It's a minimum, then a common competence standard for professional qualifications, we're just talking about them. But the problem that is now emerging and which is very loud is the protests, these are the dissatisfaction of our nurses who when going abroad this school that was for nurses in Germany or in other European Union countries are experiencing that they have to work as pphlegers, let me use the German word, carer. The translator, therefore, or the nurse’s care really needs to be clearly distanced, and especially regarding the professional competences of our nurses. When we talk about the English word then it's called nursing, so just kind of when it's translated it would be appropriate sisterly, nurse here is nurse medical. However, it is in the very phase of education on healthcare. So we don't have to stick to the strict name, the English name nursing, because it doesn't correspond to the professional training of our nurses and schools for nurses, they say 4 and 5 years later. Doctors and veterinarians, then say to dentists, recipients who also have specific professions, all of this is prescribed here and is quite detailed about it. What is a concern in the Croatian public are constant contradictions, the contradictions between the number of doctors who went abroad, the number of doctors who asked the Medical Chamber to go abroad. So on the one hand we have two opposing sides and the Croatian medical chamber has made it clear and loud that there were 900 requests for the doctor's release by the New Year, and here later it turns out that the executive authority has said that it is much less and is now being handled by various numbers, but for political purposes. In any case, that they all stay and that no one is looking for a Croatian medical chamber printout because of going abroad the doctor is missing. In Croatia, there are some specialities, such as surgery, pediatrics, gynaecology, and others. But if there goes the number the government is talking about, the doctor abroad we will therefore have great problems in providing health care to our citizens. Chapter 8 says that I have already said about the recognition of foreign professional qualifications acquired in third countries. In one of the articles in that chapter, Article 85 refers to competent authorities which recognise these professional qualifications and therefore that the competent authority may allow access to the regulated profession and to the profession under the same conditions applicable to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And what candidates? Those who have acquired professional qualifications in a third country and who have had 3 years of professional experience in a particular profession in the field of a Member State which has recognised a professional qualification acquired in a third country and which is evidenced by a certificate issued in a Member State. It can therefore also be bypassed if any member of any third country has worked in another Member State of the European Union for 3 years then he can get a job in Croatia without any problem. So everything that is prescribed here is in fact very detailed and we have amended the laws in 2009, 2011, and then a little change as said by my colleague Lugarić in 2014 and here we now and through the European Union directive are changing this law with a detailed description of these provisions that are necessary for the recognition of professional qualifications and persons from the European Union, but also very detailed on persons coming from the so-called so-called. third countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109019	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109020	Regardless of the law that bears the mark of the HDSB E club, he will be abstentioned on the issue of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109021	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Domagoj Hajdukovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Dear Mirella Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109022	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of my debate, I would like to stress that I will support this bill in my first reading. However, unlike the debates that have been more focused on me, I would say some principle issues, I will deal with one specific case, given the fact that in December of last year, when I was contacted by a group of dental medical doctors, who had completed dental colleges in the area of the former Yugoslavia, I also asked a written parliamentary question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to which I received my answer. Therefore, in the matter of addressing the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I warned that although these people were recognised abroad by the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which was responsible for nostrifying diplomas acquired abroad until Croatia's entry into the EU. Although they have conducted a traineeship in Croatian health homes, the Ministry of Health makes it impossible for them to pass a state exam explaining that the Agency for Science and Higher Education's solution is no longer recognised because of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, this is because of the new Law on the Recognition of Foreign Higher Educational Qualifications of regulated professions. Therefore, according to the provisions of the law which is still in force, the law of professions that have their chambers must enter into the procedure of nostrification, diplomas carried out by the competent chamber, or the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine. Doctors have entered the procedure of nostrifying a diploma that has lasted for some since Croatia's entry into the EU, which means almost a year and a half. The first test for nostrification was organised only on 10 November 2014 and the entire procedure was paid by about 18000 kuna, and during the nostrification process they were forbidden to work in the profession. Doctors heard before the exams that Hrvoje Pezo, president of the chamber at regional chamber meetings, confirmed that several witnesses said they would not allow dentists from Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro to work in Croatia and that the test would be impossible to pass. Although they did not believe in such rumors, the fact is that no candidate passed a test which is not surprising, since 70 exams need to be prepared for the exam, they say. Each subject is listed by several authors, meaning that some 400 books should be learned for the exam. This is why a whole series of young doctors of dental medicine of Croatian citizens, and at a time when doctors in Croatia are absolutely necessary, work in the profession has been disabled and will have to continue their careers in another country. Unfortunately, neither after the Government's reply to my parliamentary question problem has yet to be solved, it continues to take place. So yesterday I heard from one of those young dentists who the Chamber of Dental Medicine called three months ago and said they were going to get a license, but that they were waiting for confirmation from the Ministry of Health, or that one of the employees of the Ministry of Health should issue a certificate. The dentist was alone with this lady, he communicated several times with her, and he tried to explain that her two sentences on paper were enough to send them to the chamber, and based on that, the chamber would issue licences to at least anyone who passed the expert exam. But she simply didn't want to issue any confirmation because it was reportedly responsible as a chamber three months ago. And nothing moves from a dead end. The dentist is suspected of lack of will, professionalism and motivation and considers it paradoxical that the president of the chamber already mentions Mr. Pezo a very good friend with Minister Varg, to socialise and private, to play tennis. But unfortunately, they can't agree on this problem that the health minister is very well aware of, given the fact that he finally answered my written parliamentary question from the end of last year. They feel that this is completely incomprehensible and that this is how young lives are actually systematically destroyed. And regardless of the fact that the Chamber of Dental Medicine has agreed to give licenses to doctors who passed a state exam at the Ministry of Health in Zagreb will not issue a licence until the competent staff at the Ministry of Health has issued a confirmation that the chamber says it itself is enough for all two sentences. If it's not absurd, I don't know what absurd is, and I think it's extremely important that we talk about these things because the laws can be well written, but we can see that, unfortunately, in practice, very bad things happen, and that, unfortunately, there are young dentists who are not in a position to solve this problem. Here it is, they also warned me, that the situation with the doctor, i.e. with the medical chamber is diametrically opposite, that there is absolutely no problem with them that alone, means the procedure costs some 1000 kuna while here it costs a minimum of between 10 to 18000 kuna, which is an extremely high cost for such a procedure, so here I appeal to everyone to keep an eye on and that it is not enough just to have good and quality laws. We can have good and quality laws, but the question is how they are implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109023	Thank you. The final address of Deputy Minister of Labour and the pension system of the respected Bozidar Štubelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109024	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I want to thank you for your constructive, truly legal discussion. The law is in first reading. I hope that we will fully review all your proposals and in the new proposal, so for a second reading that we will have a better, better and I would say more enforceable law. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109025	I'm closing this agenda. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109026	Proposal for a law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, first reading, P.Z.E., No. 821. The debate on the bill is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most of the votes are 85 and 11 abstentions and nothing against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109027	We're moving on to the next point. This is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Mobility and Programmes of the European Union, Reading Provod, P.Z.E. No. 822. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and you received reports at the session. Do we have a proposing representative to explain the proposal? We don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Martina Banic will speak with respect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109028	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues here is a very short amendment to the Law on the Agency for Mobility and EU programmes, and I will be very brief accordingly. The Agency for Mobility and the EU Programme was established by the Law on the Mobility Agency and the EU Programme as a public institution whose competence is the implementation of the EU programme, the Lifelong Learning Programme and the Youth Programme. This is the agency that was established in 2007, which was one of the conditions of the European Commission that any Member State wishing to participate in Union programmes in the field of education and training must have one such independent national agency. The main work of the Agency is to call public tenders to finance international cooperation and mobility activities for the purpose of learning, informing and consulting potential applicants, preparing tender documentation, checking formal criteria, assessing the quality of the applications received, negotiating and approval of projects, financing them, and then monitoring, consulting and monitoring agreed financial projects. We could say that the role of this agency is really great when we know that it is about programmes from the fields of education, science, youth training and sports as well as research and innovation programmes. So all the programs of this agency directly refer to young people. The basis of the amendment proposal and the addition of the law we are discussing today, and given that the Agency is in charge of implementing and supporting the largest programmes financed by EU funds, is to coordinate with the new EU programmes for the period 2014 to 2020, and that is, the provisions of the existing law with the real situation in the field of education, science, youth training and sports. It's two programs, one is Horizon 2020 and the other is Erasmus plus. Horizon 2020 is a new EU programme for research and innovation aimed at excellence in research and innovation, an increase in industry competitiveness, integration of social and humanistic sciences and the European added value of projects. Erasmus plus this is the EU's biggest programme for education, youth training and sport, the aim of this programme is to strengthen knowledge and skills and employability of European citizens to improve, education and training and work in the field of youth and sports. What is not clear here is why we are only discussing this today and why we are only now doing a change of law when in fact a new generation of these programmes came into force in January 2014 and we are already in May 2015. A few more words about the agency's work. I can tell that the agency is well teamed, the programs are being implemented. Personally, I think it would be better if the agency were even more public. For example, we rarely see any promotional programs that are with the agency. Often we don't know enough about programs. There are more programs than the ones we're discussing right now. It would also be good to get as young as possible to know the opportunities available to them. I would also like to remind you of the presentation we had in the Assembly last week of the opportunity to see by the agency, we could see that there is a small involvement of persons with disabilities in Erasmus Plus programmes and that in this part they are a sub-represented group. It would be good to work workshops, seminars and associations that gather people with disabilities and include them in as many projects as possible. It should certainly work to ensure that the basis of all programmes is equal to that available to all. This isn't just about people with disabilities. On the Education Committee, we pointed out that there is a problem for students who are worse economic and who are not able to participate in exchanges. Students go to exchanges that last several months, it's a great opportunity to learn, it's an opportunity to learn foreign languages, to acquire new competences. But it's not always available to everyone. Such programs are indeed significant. We also had the opportunity to hear that these students are eventually both faster and easier to hire after they have gained some international experience. It should work to address obstacles. Another one of them is the health status of students. Therefore, our national interest is to withdraw all available money and then use it. Which means that we should certainly work on as much training as possible for potential applicants as possible and on the availability of the programmes themselves. Finally, I would like to point out that in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for Mobility and EU programmes, I have a small objection to legal terms. Namely, the term workers is used in terms of public servants. In our legislation, workers are used for the concept of furniture, so manual technical staff is also defined in administrative science and in our Law on civil servants. However, the old version of the Act on the Mobility Agency and the EU programme also calls that head the Agency's workers, but in the text of the law, it still defines that it is co-workers and advisers, and this proposal deletes that item, or amends it. It is clear that a comprehensive interpretation of the law can determine who the term "worker" refers to but it is not a proper termology. I point out that the laws on other agencies in the Republic of Croatia also call employees, and as far as I can see, the most common name is employees in professional services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109029	Thank you. We have a reported replica of Damir Caine.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109030	Well, I, just a little bit, yes, this is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Mobility and Programme Agency in the EU. I don't think it's a disputed work of this agency, it's absolutely all for 5. It is something else, that Croatia has 182 agencies, which are unable to list their names, or the minister of administration who is somehow in charge of them, or the finance minister who provides the salaries, and for me neither the prime minister nor the prime ministers who founded them. I remember an interview by Miroslav Kutle when they asked him at one point how many companies he had and he said about 140 or maybe 160. So when they asked him if he was able to name all those names of those companies, he said if you don't pedal, you'll fall at some point. I personally believe that only those agencies that are able to name the prime minister, the finance minister or the management minister should survive. If they are unable to list, then the question arises whether there is any reason for such a number of employees in those agencies to be burdened by the Republic of Croatia. I've said all about five when it comes to this agency, it's nothing to argue with, but I'm only interested in one piece of information about how many people work in that agency, or would I like to know if someone can tell me how many people are employed in 182 or 184 agencies that exist at the moment in the Republic of Croatia? I am as deeply convinced as this Parliament could function without twenty, thirty or forty MPs and the question is how many of us are here so the state administration could function without 20 or 30% employees and the rich and the county, and cities, and municipalities and utility companies. This is how the whole country's gonna split up. But I also welcome everything for five when it comes to this.../Speaker off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109031	The reply to the replica is respected by Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cain, you could certainly agree that this agency works for five, it is indeed a good agency and the programmes it implements are very important. As far as the number of employees in this agency is concerned, that question would actually be intended for the proposer, but they are not presently available, I don't know why. As for the issues related to other agencies and the number of employees, I think that should be intended for Mr. Bauk's management minister or even better for his boss, Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109033	On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Marija Lugaric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109034	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister of Eight years of functioning of this agency, as well as new European programmes for whose implementation into the Republic of Croatia, the EU Mobility and Programmes Agency, I think that sufficient and good enough reason to change this law. And in that sense, we will support the bill. As it comes to the law in two readings, let me say on behalf of the SDP Club some of our proposals that we believe would contribute to a better text of the law. However, before these individual remarks, only one is actually a principled remark. Mr. Deputy Director of the Agency has this law without transitional and final provisions in all 18 articles, we are now changing them by amending the laws 12. We are changing all those key articles relating to the part-time work of the agency, changing the provisions relating to the management of the agency whether it is provisions, council management and directors, and indeed it would be a much better decision if you decided to make a whole new law. This would also be in line with the nomotechnical rules of the profession because when more than 2/3 of the law is changed and almost 90% of the law is fundamentally amended, it is indeed time for a new law and not for amendments and additions. I ask you to see if there is any possibility of doing so because when we have one text, so change and supplement the users of the agency who are quite satisfied with the work of the agency I think it will significantly complicate the situation in the monitoring of the person they address, who is responsible and so on. Allow me a few concrete remarks per article. Article 4 which amends Article 5, which defines how the Agency's activities are financed in the last subparagraph, is referred to from other sources in accordance with the law. It is previously regulated to finance the agency by means of state budgets, from EU programme and project resources, from trusts, funds, gifts, from contracts with international organisations and from EU funds. If there are other sources which have not already been mentioned, it would be good for them to be listed. I have to admit, it doesn't occur to me what else it might be that it hasn't already been mentioned? Since these so far sub-assemblies include budget funds, and public funds, and trusts, and funds, and donations, that is, any kind of possible funding. It would be good to define it or at least to explain what it is. Article 5 provides for one newspaper in the organisation of the Agency’s work, which is that the Agency may set up branches to bring the activities of the branch closer to the organisation of the Agency’s statutes. I really don't know, and I can't judge whether the agency needs to have or doesn't have a branch, given the number of users it would probably be useful to have branches, but I think it's important for the branch to be written in law. In view of the fact that the Agency's activities are defined by law, the same thing must be defined as regards branches. It is not illegal to write that it is governed by the statute, but I think it would be much better and clearer to regulate it by law. Article 6 but also applies similarly to Article 8 relating to the conditions for members of the Board of Directors and Directors of the Agency, firstly, it is really good that the conditions that a person must satisfy are now prescribed to be elected as a member or member of the Governing Council, we have not had this so far, but if we mention the absence of a conflict of interest, we must define what is a conflict of interest within the meaning of this law. The law and general regulations on conflict of interest define conflict of interest for state officials. None of these persons, therefore, need to be a member of the board of directors or a state official, and I think it would be good to define what this conflict of interest is related to this law in a similar way that they have defined that persons from a particular ministry when it comes to programme and administrative oversight of the work of the Agency cannot be those persons who are in the administrative council. Similarly, one of the obstacles to the appointment is the lack of a judicial verdict to commit a criminal offence that makes it unworthy to carry out its duties. I think that in this law as well as in other regulations, it is necessary to prescribe what are criminal acts that make them unworthy of the conduct of duty. Is this, for example, a serious bodily injury that is a broken leg in a car accident or is it some other kind of crime? In order to reduce the possibility of both manipulation and interpretation, it would be good to prescribe, before interpreting rather than manipulation, what are the offences for which the ruling is an obstacle to the appointment of a member of the Governing Council. For a COSME member, the same as the directors are better defined terms but the same thing is related to conflict of interest. There's one thing we don't like about the club in Article 8, and we'd love to get rid of it from the final bill. It is, in fact, that you have now predicted that the director of the agency should not come from the Agency’s staff if it does not come from the Agency’s staff, after the term of office of the Agency’s director will expire that she will be offered an indefinite employment contract at the Agency’s place of work with the conditions and qualifications that the person satisfies. It is truly unusual that when a person is elected to office, and comes from another institution and the person is aware that he comes to a designated place of employment, a limited term of office, that he remains in the institution in which she acted as manager. I understand one part of the motivation of this article, which is primarily competition in this part of the market where you are fighting for the employees and employees of the agency since people who deal with European funds on some private or commercial labour market of the funds are simply much better paid and we are aware that you find it hard not so many young employees who come into the agency that you learn to work and when they learn to then go to market, so we are aware of these restrictions, but we do not think it is good to apply it to the director in the sense that it remains to work. It is okay that if the person appointed as director comes from the ranks of employees, that the contract of work rests while he acts as director, but for the person who came outside is not an optimal solution to stay in the agency beyond the rules of employment within the public service. With regard to Article 9, one suggestion only, consider the possibility or our proposal that the annual report on the work other than the board of directors, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Youth as a sectoral departmental director or council shall submit an annual report on the work to the relevant committees of the Croatian Assembly of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture only in order to get the representatives to know the work of the agency on the one hand, and on the other hand to address the problems if they exist. Article 12, my colleague Banic said something about the agency's workers, if you leave an article like this 15.formed that professional general work is done by workers I think that article is unnecessary for you. Of course, the people who work are called workers and it's unnecessary to write in law. The idea of this article in the old version which defined what the names of jobs were, therefore, professional associates, professional advisors, senior expert advisors of the idea was that it was prescribed by law. Now you put it in the agency's statutes as much as possible but then this article is completely unnecessary, then you need it in that sense and delete it. I think it was a better version of a still valid law but it's not something that's crucial. In the end, I want to say a few things about the agency itself, but this is really one agency that I think is the least of the least disputed in both the public and the professional public. What comes to us as a representative who... information is a clear satisfaction of the users of the agency with the programmes offered by the Agency, in particular regarding mobility programmes and especially in that part of general education, primarily basic education where primary school staff until the agency and these programmes had almost no opportunity to go to professional training abroad, something better is the situation at the level of higher education, science, etc. The basic education and general high school education and the people who work did not really have any opportunities and this really opened one whole of these programmes open one whole new world to professional people in the field of education. From 2009 to 2013 in these mobility programmes and other programmes, the agencies agreed on a total of 99% of the available funding under the Lifelong Learning Programme, 91% of the contracting of available funds under the Youth Programme, which is indeed European programmes and European money that has almost the best use compared to all other European programmes. And even this new ERAZMUS Plus for 2014 last year, which approved a 251 project, which makes up 98% of the contracting of funds really speaks about the good work of the agency, on the other hand, a good preparation of people for the very application of projects and professional support that people get from agency workers, and thus the agency really justifies its existence. In the end, we support the agency's work. The work so far has really been spotless, we want it to continue. The law I hope you will fix according to these suggestions until the second reading, and then we, with greater satisfaction, will support the law in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109035	On behalf of the HNS club, a respected colleague, Boris Blazekovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Director with an associate. We agree with colleague Lugaric that it was probably due to the amount of changes that might have taken place in the new law. One of the EU's unquestionable and greatest values is the mobility of its citizens. All around 550 million inhabitants of the European Union can move without restrictions across the European Union, can work, live, create across the European Union. Anyone who wants to go inside that big space can go anywhere they want, start a family, start a new or continue a professional career, buy a holiday house, say in Portugal, old Rome, Paris or Zagreb. It is possible to educate or educate its children or to study at any university in the European Union under the same conditions as all other citizens of the European Union. For example, in Stockholm anyone who wants can start their own company, in Vienna, architectural Brussels, and in Brussels ask the European Commission for an incentive to develop or implement a project or programme. This is the European Union. In order to make it easier for Croatian citizens and citizens to achieve one part of the above, the Mobility and Programmes Agency of the European Union was established as early as possible in 2008. The Agency was established as a public institution for the implementation of the European Union programme, a lifelong learning programme and a youth programme in action. A number of other European Union programmes from the competences of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are also assigned to the Agency following the establishment of the following years. In 2014, the agency also became the National Agency for Erasmus+, a new European Union programme in the field of education, youth training and video. Therefore, the Agency's competence was constantly extended to the management of new programmes and it was necessary to comply with the provisions of the Agency's law with the real situation. In view of the possibility and obligation to use the European Union funds, the Agency will, as part of its activities, report projects to other bodies involved in the fields of science and education, which should also be regulated by this law. This law also provides for the implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing the Erasmus+ Union programme, as we have said for the education and education of young people and sports, and repealing all this decision before that date. The exercise of founding rights is transferred from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Ministry of Education and Science, which would allow a faster and more flexible response to the needs of the Agency and would rationalise the use of the resources of the State Administration and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is explicitly possible for the Agency to report the competition of other bodies for the implementation of projects relating to youth education and science. The Agency shall be able to report and implement projects funded by the European Union Structural Funds, aimed at the education, science and youth sector. The funding sources of the Agency are in line with the real situation and, with the state budget, the European Union also states that each year, on the basis of an operational grenade intended for the implementation of the Erasmus+ Agency programme, it provides funds intended to co-finance the material costs of its operations and to ensure the quality of business processes and human potentials. Furthermore, the Agency is the beneficiary of the funds allocated for the implementation of the European Union projects. And now let me read for public reasons for those who do not know that they are about to get the impression of what the agency is doing, so I will read in Article 3, that is, Article 4, which is changing what is being done and what are the activities of the agency. The Agency also says that the Agency is working with institutions and organisations in the active field of education, training of young people, sports and sciences and bodies of the state administration, public institutions and legal and physical persons and in accordance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia and respecting the programming rules regulated by the acts of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union which are governed by the European Union programmes. It shall carry out the tasks relating to the preparation and publication of tenders for certain European Union programmes. It informs and advises on the activities and ways of applying for tenders, collects applications for tenders. Ensures the dissemination of information, promotion and monitoring of all actions and activities supported under the Programme as well as the dissemination of the results of previous programmes. Preparation of instructions and manuals for potential applicants or end-users. He's running a procedure for selecting projects, checking the candidate's legal status. It selects projects and manages the implementation of projects. It ensures the coherence of projects with European and national priorities. It monitors the use of financial resources directed to end-users and coordinates work with institutions in the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. Nice, important job. A large part of this bill is talked about the very formation of the agency that we in the HNS consider extremely important, but certainly less important than all the jobs that the agency has to do for its citizens with its competences and powers. Perhaps it should be pointed out that this bill prescribes an amendment to the Agency's management board system. Instead of representatives of experts from the academic community, the inclusion of representatives of the Agency for Science and Higher Education is prescribed. In addition, members of the Governing Council should not participate in the Agency's programmes to prevent active representatives of individual sectors appointed to the Administrative Council from participating in the programmes. Since higher education and science represent the largest part of the activities of the Agency for Science and Higher Education Agency, it would make a significant contribution. The administrative board shall not have the power to decide on the distribution of programme resources and tender conditions, as the issues mentioned are specified by the acts of the European Commission or inter-state agreements and contracts. Furthermore, a potential shareholder representative and a representative of a sectoral institution during the term of office would not have the right to participate in the Agency's programmes because it would be a conflict of interest. But their institutions would have that right. The amendment of the term of office of members of the Governing Council is prescribed in the same way that, in a way that takes 5 years instead of the previous 4 years and for the sake of ensuring and effective work of the Governing Council and the continuity of management in the event of the end of the Director's term of office. The Director's term of office is four years. Finally, the European Union is, among other things, a waste of knowledge, new technologies of lifelong education. The European Union is a space of chance, a possibility for every citizen, or citizen, to seek his or her happiness in a pool of unsuspecting opportunities, whether in a home country or in any other Member State of the European Union. Our country is obliged through its institutions to allow its citizens access to all information on all the opportunities that our European Union provides. One institution that is obliged to inform Croatian citizens and citizens in the fields of science and education, lifelong education, youth training and sports is the Agency for Mobility and Programmes of the European Union, and it is doing so successfully so far. The HNS Club of Liberal Democrats will accept this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Mobility Agency and the European Union's first-reading programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109037	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representative Rajko Ostojic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry of Science. So as my predecessors have already said, it is an extremely important amendment to the Law on the Mobility Agency and the European Union programmes. Three key words are here: the European Union, the second is mobility as a place of chance and the third is missing but it is understood, which is science. At the very least, it is good to transfer the founding rights from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Ministry of Science in an amendment to the law in Article 2 which will allow for a faster, simpler, standard operating procedure when applying to the competition and second, maximum exploitation of the European Union. So that's the three key words my predecessors spoke of. The European Union, as our room for opportunity, works with us in newspapers and Hungarians and Germans and Italians. Unfortunately or fortunately, our mind goes out sometimes, but it is a key key base of the European Union. It's another science. When you watch you read Croatian scientists, the situation is not very good and I expect this agency, regardless of what it does to the European Union's programmes to help a little. When you look at which institutions are quoted in internationally indexed publications they.... First place is the University of Zagreb, second place is the Ruđer Bošković Institute, third place is my hospital, watch my hospital KBC Zagreb, Rebro in third place, fourth place, fifth place and sixth place are three universities. I don't know exactly the order, Split, Osijek and Rijeka, and it's just not good. It's not good for... the reason that there's even one hospital, KBC, no matter what a huge number of scientists and scientific educations are doing there is in front of three universities and that's something we're just expecting to change in this decade, so by the end of 2020. For this reason, there were few programmes that were applied and approved, such as FP 7, but only 7 or 8. What I think, Mr. Deputy Minister, is something that gives us unsuspecting possibilities, which is smart specialization. S3, that's the key to success. Today ends one deadline as far as I know, for... 2020, for one segment, is today a deadline. So this is an amazing key to the success of withdrawing not only financial resources but brains and contacts because you must have several international scientific institutions that will work with you. So S3 as counterpart Blazekovic said is part of the innovation and of everything that can draw us out, which is Croatian intelligence and Croatian science. In any case, I support the proposal to amend and supplement the law, especially as regards not only Erasmus+ but even more important Horizon 2020 or Horizon 2020, and it is great that you were already at the end of 2013, and at the time, I think that my colleague Jovanovic was still determined by the national contact of the person, so... point which definitely helped to help and to speed up and improve the exploitation of European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109039	Thank you. The final minutes of the debate belong to Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports, respected Rok Andricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs. First, thank all clubs, all individual debates on proposals, suggestions and advice. As you know, this is the first reading, so we will seek all of your remarks, in particular the remarks that have come from the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education and Education, with very concrete proposals, to make amendments between the two readings. What I would like to emphasise, which is probably all of you, has so far also, is that it is a very interesting agency, an agency with only 75 people, which is nevertheless one of the perennial agencies and it would be good for most of our agencies to have results such as the results of the Mobility and Programmes Agency of the European Union. What we expect as a proposer of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports expects this agency to continue its work, especially the expansion of this part of the circle we have now heard in Horizon 2020, as well as the harmonisation with the Regulation establishing Erasmus+. In order not only to be in words, allow me just some figures that will probably give you a good indication of what this agency was doing. Between 2009 and the end of 2013, funding of 2089 projects of more than 29m euros was ensured as part of the programme for lifelong learning and youth programmes, and 25 000 and 124 citizens of the Republic of Croatia participated in international activities aimed at learning and training. I think this figure for a country like Croatia is very important and shows not only the ability and ability to withdraw funds but also the engagement of young people on this mobility. In these amendments and additions, too, other than those of the European Union programme, the Agency will be obliged to work to further strengthen and upgrade its core activities, in particular relying on the European Social Fund, so that they are in the operational programme, particularly effective human potentials for the '14-20. the project envisaged to be implemented by the RES in charge of the Agency. So once again, thank you all very much for your suggestions and comments. In the period between the two readings, we will try to take all of this into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109041	Thank you. I'm closing the agenda. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109042	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the EU Mobility Agency and programmes, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 822. The debate on the draft law is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Mobility and EU programmes is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Voting complete. What's the score? I find that unanimously with 96 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109043	We move on to the next point is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Extra charge for children, first reading, P.Z.BR.801. The legislator is the representative of Mladen Novak. You've received the motion for an act. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You've received reports. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109044	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must finally correct you, unfortunately, the debate is still under way by the Family Committee. And unfortunately, from that debate, I had to come here to defend my bill, since unfortunately, the debate there is not over yet. As you've noticed, this law is very short. It was initiated by the citizens' initiative "Let's Help The Children With Disabilities." And the essence of this law is to remove discrimination that has been introduced and entered into force in 2002 since 1.1.2002, which is why virtually all persons are deliberately talking about children, but about persons, since they turn 27 after 1.1.2002, who have turned 27 lose their right to a child's allowance. So we have two groups of these people, one who turned 27 before 1.1.2002 and have a permanent right to a child's allowance and those who turned 27 after that date and they lose the right to 830 kuna, 831.50 kuna. The word is currently predictable about 1100 people. Why predictable? Because every day when someone turns 27 into that category, they enter this group of people, on the other hand, and that nature does its part, so we probably have those who come out of that category. It would have been something less than 11 million kunas at your level of a year. I think that, in any case, the Republic of Croatia is about people who cannot help themselves, as the chairman of the Legislative Committee has said, it is our obligation to protect human values especially those most threatened. Well, now we have a chance to protect the most vulnerable. I'm sure these people can't rebel for themselves, I can't ask for my right, they must be asked for by someone else. The national audit report for 2013 for those who want to follow it is listed on page 5, and I will purposely quote this in order not to be confused "For 2013 it is the find of a state audit for this ministry, the Resord Ministry, for 2013 the surplus revenue of almost 40 million kuna was shown. The surplus of revenue transferred from the previous period amounts to 32 million kuna and the surplus income available over the next period amounts to more than 72 million kuna." So it was the funds. At a cabinet meeting when discussing this bill, it was said that it was about extending the law. Nothing here is about the extension of the right but the abolition of discrimination, and I also cannot agree with the definition that a certain group that was involved here was turned 27 before 1.1.2002 that they were privileged. Nothing can be privileged by someone who uses their rights under the law. So I'm not talking about privileged people, I'm talking about this other group that's being discriminated against. It is interesting that Minister Opacic also made a statement yesterday if I am not mistaken in Daruvar on my visit to the journalist issue that it is still discrimination. And we also have the opinion of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities sent to the Croatian Parliament and where it stands, 6th May means today, yesterday, which states that the Government is also suggesting that this bill should be followed because it is really about discrimination. It shall mean amendments to Article 12 and 38. This law is not a fruit of one government's unhappiness, the fact is that this problem has lasted since 2002, so we're not blaming either one or the other. The fact is that since 2020 there's been really enough time, enough space to solve this problem. The fact is also that in the 2nd month 2013, the ministry sent a memo stating that they were familiar with this problem and that they would address it as soon as possible. The fact is that the Act on an Inclusive Appendix that would solve this problem was in public debate during 2013. For unknown reasons withdrawn, never released into procedure further. The fact is, too, that today we are discussing the law if it's going to be the case, we can make it right in advance. $11 million for Croatia should in no way be such a problem for discrimination to continue and in some way bless by the authorities. I appeal to all MPs to support this bill because this is about a group that cannot stand up for itself. If you're going to do this, I don't know, but I hope the conscience works. I also have one more thing to say. It's about people with disabilities. Do you know, to appeal to a conscience might be questionable. Do you know, and you probably know that unfortunately from this group of people with disabilities is more than 70% below the poverty line. These people 831.50 kunas a month means a lot. I hope that all these arguments I've made will be enough to make the right decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109045	Thank you. We have one replica, dear colleague Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109046	Dear colleague Novak, you've asked a number of questions about whether we know anything. The question of persons with disabilities in Croatia if I have been wrong since 2003 is trying to resolve one single law, especially when it comes to additions, which would rest on the order and degree of disability. All attempts have failed so far, and the government, in the opinion of your bill, says it is on the 2015 agenda to adopt the law. But it didn't bother to change the previous laws somewhere around 1100 people with disabilities without what was then called a child's allowance. We heard a public argument that it was done and that this bill was not accepted because there was no money. Now I ask the question if in the 2015 agenda the government's intention to solve the new law problem that you pointed to without budget rebalancing how will this problem be solved if money is not secured? So obviously it's not that there's no money, it's just that the line and the logic of depriving certain rights because of the savings in the state budget, which we created a new social injustice, because the people who acquired those rights earlier have been detained, and the people who, after the adoption of these legislative changes, have not fallen out of the system. It is therefore legitimate to ask whether such refusal of your bill is not a violation of the constitutional equality of citizens with the right to social care, assistance and protection of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109047	The replica corresponds to the legislator, the respected Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109048	Thank you very much. At the very session of the Committee on Legislatives, counterparts Lesar said that this was the case and that it is predictable that the law would be passed in the last quarter of this year. The very fact of the last quarter of the election year tells you whether there is any intention at all to pass or not. Now let's be open to the end, put the cards on the table so let's say the truth if the estimates are that we won't win, which is why eventually the law was moved from 60th to 8, precisely for reasons to avoid discussing the law at the time of the election campaign because it certainly doesn't fit the ruling one. Now, there's the possibility of a scenario to keep their promise at the end of the year in the last quarter and to pass such a law because it's for the purpose of an election campaign. There is also the possibility that they will take this obligation by a new law because they are aware that they are losing the election and transferring their obligation to someone else, to some new government. But there's also the possibility that, most likely and true, they simply use it for pre-election purposes and they say look, we're Social Democrats, we're really sensitive, the most vulnerable group none since 2002 when all the other governments were in power didn't protect her. Here we are now protecting her. But that's true then, Prime Minister Milanovic once told me to go with the lowest form of populism. When I asked him what he would do for kids who were hungry at school? I think this is an even lower form and it wasn't the populism that finally turned out to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109049	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected Martina Banic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. For 15 years, the Act on Child Supplement has been in force and has seen more changes and additions during this period. What we are discussing today is the problem that arises when it comes to children with severe health damage who are abolishing the right to a child's allowance after 27 years of life even though they are still unable to live and work on their own. To remind ourselves of the 2000 Law on Child Compensation did not have that limitation until the 27th year, and on January 1, 2002, a new law came into effect that abolishes this right for persons over 27 years of age. The problem we have been discussing for the past 4 years has also been warned by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities in their work reports. In this section, it warns of an increasing number of parents who are addressing the office and indicate that they are placed in an unequal position compared to those parents who have achieved this right by 1.1.2002 and who, according to the controversial article of the Law on Child Compensation, are entitled to an allowance for children and after 27 years of life until the adoption of a special rule on the rights of persons with disabilities. However, the problem is that the said regulation has not been passed, as has not been passed, nor has the Included Supplement Act for which the adoption was prescribed by the end of 2013. In the same way as the Ombudsman warns the citizens' initiative "Let's help the children with disabilities" who say it is discrimination, because the law shares persons with disabilities older than 27 years on those who started receiving children's allowance before 1 January 2002 and those who started receiving them after that date. According to existing data from 1 January 2002 to 31 December 2013, the right to a child's allowance due to the age of 27 lost 785 people. This figure should be added to the number of persons who have achieved this right from 1 January 2002 until today, who lost their right to a child's allowance in 2014 and 2015. It is estimated that there are about 300 of them, which would total about 1,100 people. Each would exercise the right to 831 kuna and 50 lip per month, which is about 10,000 kuna per year per person. Now we have the fact that about 4,000 people with disabilities have the right to pay for their entire lives, and 1100 have no right to do so, and their right has ceased after 27 years of life. I would also like to remind the prosecutor's statement to persons with disabilities who posted in December last year ahead of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities where she said that persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia live on the verge of existence. According to data presented in the Strategy against Poverty and Social Exclusion in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014 to 2020, the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion in 2012 was 32.3% of the population, one of the highest rates in the EU. 15.4% of the population lives in conditions of severe material poverty and cannot meet the basic needs of life, and according to the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the percentage for people with disabilities is greater and is 18% of people with disabilities. That's the defeating data. But it is precisely this data that tells us how important it is for children with severe physical impairment. It is important to realise that human rights are persons with disabilities of special importance for the state and the community whose responsibility is to care for those who need it. There are just over 520,000 people living in Croatia with disabilities, which is a total of 12% of the population. The highest number of people with disabilities, more than 50% of them are working age from 19 to 64, while in the age group of 65 and over is about 40%. And at the end of this brief debate, as last time, I remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the family is under special protection from the state. The allowance for children is part of family support and is intended for child support. The user of the allowance is a parent or other person governed by the law. I also remind myself of the harsh reality in the Republic of Croatia which we should be aware of as much as it tries to conceal, however optimistic and individual ministers and prime ministers are, but the situation in the Republic of Croatia is difficult. Families have a hard time living like everyone else, unfortunately. Therefore, the allowance is very important, especially when we know that because of the difficult life, fewer families are deciding on the family and more families are leaving outside the Republic of Croatia to work and build their family. We know that demographics don't predict a good future and a nation's age proposition. There's more and more families on the beggar stick, and we have to do everything we can to make it easier, to fix it, and we can't make it any harder. Because in this case, unfortunately, families with health problems appear. And the other day on TV, there was another social trade opening. In Croatia, these shops seem to be growing more and more every day, and yet they are actually getting smaller. Unfortunately, there is little and the need for them is great. That's not good at all. That's exactly why the needs shouldn't be abolished. It is our obligation to help the family in the Republic of Croatia constitutionally and humanly, especially in need. I'm sorry this government doesn't have much understanding for the real problems of citizens. It is indisputable that child support is important, and in this crisis especially because many do not work and children's allowance is their only source of income.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109051	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Mladen Novak appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109052	Thank you very much. I reported for an earlier piece in the debate of a distinguished colleague, but now and finally I have to react to this final part. It's not that this government doesn't exist. Unfortunately, since 2002, until today, all governments have been at stake, so we can't say that it's only this current government's fault, but essentially none of the governments so far have found it appropriate to even address this problem. And why did I call first? You mentioned the Attorney General's report on persons with disabilities, and in that report, a real lawyer warns of the lack of the ICC. But it warns of another problem, that there is a possibility that this law will unite all rights and cumulatively reduce. She now warns that the funds could remain the same, increase the number of rights users and practically reduce some. And I repeat the fact that over 70% of those persons are in the poverty category. Now are we going to approach a new solution to say ok. They're poor, so let's share poverty to be a little poorer, but at least they'll be even. By the way, I'm taking this opportunity to say hello to the parents I'm afraid I don't see from here, but they're worse parents. Here they are, hello. Hello to the parents who are just interested in this and ultimately launched this whole initiative. And in the end, I have to warn you of another detail that I didn't mention in the opening part, which is the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. In Article 2(2) of the Law, point 1 is replaced by the following: "direct discrimination is a condition of some of the basics and Article 1 paragraph 1 of this law which is placed or placed or could be put in a more unfavourable position than another person in a comparable situation." So not only is this law that the Constitutional Court is calling him to change that law but even the Law on Discrimination warns us that we are violating, that human rights and ultimately enforce discrimination. And finally, in article 9 of the same law, "Discrimination in all forms is forbidden", and this is very convenient. There's legalized discrimination here, so it's up to us now if we can at least correct that injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109053	Thank you. Dear Rajko Ostojić reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Novak, so first thanks for the law, I thank you for the very well-founded law. you have only one tipfeller in item 2 on page 2 says the first sentence "The law on child compensation has entered into force on 1st of January 2000". It says in 2000, 2002, here's only pure truth for the sake of it. And I thank you for your appeal that this law be not subject to politicization. I thank you for making it very clear that he came into force on 1 January 2002 that one 4.5 prime ministers had passed since then and that unfortunately no one had responded to that. And that's why I would really appeal because your predecessor started politicizing it, that there are things that need not be politicized, especially since the government wrote very clearly, the Prime Minister, that in the annual plan of normative activities will finally come, I finally agree with you and the Law on an inclusive supplement, very clearly. Annual plan of normative activities for 2015. And you're right, there's part of the discrimination, you're right there's discrimination. The discrimination that took place has some maintained their acquired rights, and unfortunately all those others who entered the second group on the 1st of January 2002 did not do so. I am convinced that the Law on an Inclusive Supplement will correct it and therefore I appeal to you now and to you now, although I originally commended you not to copy in terms of negative coping, so... you yourself are this little poor part that will be divided into even less parts. It doesn't make sense. Look at the government's argument, it is very clear how much the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth on page 3 has made possible during this term and how much it has done for all groups of offices, this group remains, and I am convinced without any politicisation that it will be during 2015. Thank you very much, dear colleague Novak, for your law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109055	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109056	Thank you very much. First, I don't think it's tipfeller, really, the law came into force on October 1, 2000, and the changes and additions have been since 1.1.2002, when this let's say the discriminatory part. As far as coping is concerned, I have no intention of coping, but from all appearances so far, the people of the ministry, you want from the minister, you want from her assistants that I better not mention here, given the statements they made, definitely gives the impression that there is no intention of solving that problem, or that, let's be realistic, the last quarter of the last year of the term. Is it realistic that it's a serious intention to solve a problem? And what you mentioned in the government report that says that if I'm not wrong on page 3, which is all numbered, are we going to do an analysis of what's ever been realized. So I'll tell you that you have cases from the 9th month of 2013 that people are waiting for a solution. They are awaiting a solution from 9 months 2013 What do you tell these people? And you have a legal provision where it stands which is the deadline for answers for solutions. We can't take back anything else but what's real, what's real. The arguments we have, we both have them. And I agree with you, let's not politicize, let's not turn around, the fact is that it's been 13 years and that in those 13 years, the government and the prime ministers have really changed and that no one has unfortunately approached this problem. So let's do something now, if we're going to wait for the last quarter and honestly, would you believe that you're on this side to sit down, would you believe in the seriousness of the intention of solving the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109057	Thank you. On behalf of the DC, New Wave and the National Reformist Party, the respected Petar Baranovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109058	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen. About this law, as some previous speakers have said, really with sincere intent and without trance and politicizing because the subject and subject matter of this law is something that is fundamental to all ideologies present in this House. In the basics and social democracy and democracy and liberalism, and even in the conservatives that the name itself says, we can conclude that they are quite conservative in their ideology there is nothing that would be contrary to the intensity that we are human as a society. For 13 years this state and this honorable House have tolerated discrimination if we put aside the weight of that word in the context of the Croatian Constitution, in the context of all the ideologies that I mentioned earlier. Even in the context of the fact that the European Union and Western civilization are based on non-discrimination, if we put that aside but then we must pay attention to the fact that this society has so brutally discriminated for 13 years, which category of citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Those who are experiencing difficult circumstances and the fates of the disabled, threatened in a difficult life situation, those people who live through their lives drama. For 13 years, all prime ministers in these 13 years have ignored the fact that such a legal situation that regulates this area violates the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, violates a certain number of laws and that we have allowed these people to live in these circumstances. As was the case, a colleague as a proposing, so by amending the law of 2000, those who turn 27 under the 2002 law lose the law. Those who have thus far acquired the basis of the articles of the previous law have the right to do so, following these amendments 700 and something until 2013 and now when we add up some estimated number of some 1,000 and 1100 people. Not even one that would be sufficient reason to discuss this in the Croatian Parliament 1,100 people have been placed in a position to be discriminated against. And now we have a situation that the current government that really seems to have put it in the program of its work and policy is trying to show, let's not solve it now, we're going to do it at the end of the year when we pass this law that policy has not been passed for 13 years. Ladies and gentlemen, this disgrace for Croatian society not that it should be solved today, not that it should have been solved yesterday, it should have been solved 13 years ago. The explanation that we will be correcting something of this nature in six or seven months so that it will be the work of the government, the executive authority, and not one of the parliamentary advocates by playing a case that is not in the ruling majority, is simply rude. Regardless of the previous governments and this government, regardless of the parties, regardless of ideologies. That's not an argument. Once passed a law that was to be passed 13 years ago is not an argument that this anomaly in Croatian society is not immediately solved. The other day, as an agent, I made an exception that even in the towers of the Assembly is experienced as a sort of incident when I asked for an individual vote for one amendment because I was interested in seeing who would vote against transparency in the Law on Agricultural Land. So the vast majority of my colleagues and colleagues in this honorable House voted against transparency. So let's talk about corn and soy. This is about people. If I were a colleague of Novak's, if there were business provisions I'd ask for a single vote on this bill to see who would say no. I'd be interested to see who's gonna say "no," so let's just say the male colleagues shave themselves dead in the morning in front of the mirror. Because I don't know anyone in the ministry or the government estimated it would be politically opportune to put in the fridge for another six months. I'd love to, and I'll look into the eyes after I vote on this law to anyone I meet that day. A calm, mild look I'll look everyone in the eye to see who will vote against a law that solves such a question. And as for the necessary funds if they're not possibly in the state reserve, if they're not in some niche of those shrimps at the Ministry of Finance where every minister knows these things have some change stored. Then we in this honorable House can slightly reduce this aviation syndrome, a little less flying around because of our summering citizens of this country and have no particular benefit so by reducing travel costs, a little more modest work focused more on domestic problems that have been sleeping here for 13 years to save some money to ensure that discrimination against the sick and disabled in this country is prevented. The People's Party Reformers' Club, DC and New Wave will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109059	Replica esteemed Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109060	Thank you. Comrade Baranovic, I fully agree with you that this problem should have been solved 13 years ago. It is a sad fact that 13 years when we talk about children who are disabled, when we say that and when they are 27 they need much more care than children, lose certain rights or put them in an unequal position with some who have acquired certain rights. And I think that this House should take great care of it because it's not about any larger financial amount from what we've heard it's about 11 million kunas and 11 million kunas that can be found in the budget, and no one can claim that 11 million kunas to solve this problem is gone. It's just a question of whether he has a will, whether he has a desire to solve this problem. If he hasn't dealt with himself for 13 years now it's still time to get rid of it, without certain... but in the interests of the parents, in the interests of these children. And I totally agree with you and your discussion when you say you should vote individually to see who will be against this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109061	Answer, dear Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109062	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Tušak, I will use the answer to this replica of yours to appeal to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Zoran Milanovic to use his authority and to give the green light to his people in the Croatian Parliament not to lose face because this cannot wait. Not for six months, but we'd be happy to pass the organic law in six months, but this law solves something we should have solved 13 years ago. Today, by discussing at all this and the truth that is the reason for this legislative proposal, I feel uncomfortable as a professional in Croatian politics because this Croatian policy, regardless of the years I have not been an actor, has been responsible for this disgrace. If this bill doesn't pass at the vote, I'm really going to be uncomfortable with the MP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109063	On behalf of the promoter Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109064	Thank you very much. Which is why I called again, because I consulted with the parents who stayed at the board meeting until the end of which I unfortunately couldn't because I had to come to the session. They are informed there by the Deputy Minister that a task force has been formed to draft a new Social Care Act, but it is very interesting that the Ombudsman has no information about it, although it would have to be an integral part of it, the working group. Therefore, such as not to say the arguments that are clear for washing their own consciences and throwing the fog into the public, are saddened at all what comes to them. Just to remind you, a reasonable deadline has been mentioned here. Does anyone more believe in a reasonable period when the Constitutional Court called in 2008 for a period of reasonableness for the adoption of a new regulation, and we are talking about 2002. And I owe my colleague, Ostojić, who is unfortunately not here, Article 110. The social care law says that the solution, the welfare centre, is obliged to make a decision within 15 days of the day of submission of the orderly application. If skill is needed, that deadline is 30 days. Remember I said there were cases even from the 9th month 2013, which is why we are talking about both rights and realisation by the restoring ministry. A colleague of Baranovic mentioned here, who will have the cheek to look himself in the eye and I would like to see what the vote will look like. Just for your information, there were 2-7 votes on the Legislative Committee, so 2 MPs supported this proposal, 7 were against them. Today on the Family Committee the same situation, again the same result 2-7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Proposer of this bill. The HDSSB Club will support this proposal for a law amending the law on child allowance. In fact, we believe that the money needed to enforce this law has as much as you want. It's not that there's no money, it's actually a question of using that money. If we look only at the rents of state institutions, so rents paid by state institutions in private spaces, as much as you want, so there's room for savings. If you look at the prime minister's election consultant getting 300,000 euros or 2 million and 300,000 kuna according to newspaper and media, there is money. If we have the knowledge that the purchase of cars is for more than half a billion kunas only last year, then there's money. If we look at the wealth of the one who is in prison and robbed Croatia and its watches, pictures and all that he has, then even those wild beasts of the former president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, if we put it on some kind of auction, we'd get a pretty large amount of money. If we look at the State Audit report and we see that, instead of 2% of the salaries of people in state services, there are several times more paid and it's illegal and illegal, then there's money. If we take that for every year of this government for the information of ministries, agencies and everyone else paid from 500 to 600 million kuna of new machines, then there's money. It's all there is. It's just how it's spent. These 11 million kunas that are needed annually, so these cars that have been purchased could be covered in 50 years, so for 50 years they could pay people who care, and we all know who it is and the pain and love of parents to take care of children. And what's the difference? So, if someone's disabled, seriously disabled by the age of 27, what happened on his 27th birthday? Did he stop being disabled? What is this way of thinking that led to the abolition of 31.1.2001 of compensation for such children, children under quotes, because they are actually as my colleague Novak said in the degree of children from 5 to 10 years of age and in his 50 years of age they will be so, so how do I tell children? So when it was lifted as we thought back then and those who made that decision. So by the age of 27, he's right, and 20, thank God after he's 27 years old, he's probably not known to stop being disabled, no more disability, he's capable of work. So, totally unsuspectingly passed the law. And instead of correcting that mistake, here it is for 13 years, and the governments are going and the executive government is changing in no way. I think that's how it's gonna be. Dileid low, English translation of the delayed law. It is not the first time that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has listened to our debates in the Assembly and not only debates but also amendments and proposals and what we do not propose here in the parliamentary debate, it acts according to our discussions of some people in opposition but with delay and then attributes it to itself. He can attribute it to whoever he wants, but let the injustice be corrected and not the dilleid delayed, but either immediately or now as in this case what is necessary. We talked and we invested the amendment Czech, Grubisic for a million and a half kuna for hungry children, school children in Croatia. The amendment was rejected, but I must also commend the Minister of Education that he has gathered a task force, that he has sent enquiries to the principals of all primary schools to deliver the number of hungry children in his schools. So something's been going on since the new school year so that no such thing happens. We don't consider it our success as an opposition, let anyone do it just so that it doesn't happen anymore and that the media doesn't write like they do, that the children in the White Manastir, in Baranja, in our Slavonia, have a single meal and that's the one they get at school. Or if they don't get it, they eat one apple or they get nothing at school. So this right here. There's no need to politicize this thing. This thing is simply this legal proposal that has partial and total discrimination. It's partial to those who lost, so turning 27 is 785. But those new ones that are after 2002 disabled children of them are 300. They're in full discrimination, they're in full discrimination. When we spoke and when we even had the Penal Code, we voted here on discrimination, then we said that any discrimination is punishable under the law whether it's faith, sex, even sexual commitment, but also about this matter when we discriminate against disabled persons, and this way I have to tell disabled children. And because of that, if counterpart Novak is going to ask for an individual vote, I agree with that, of course, but the entire HDSSB club will be unanimous on the adoption of this law. Will the government, therefore, and the Parliament majority of the Kukuriku coalition and personally or grouply vote against this law, then in a month, two days will come up with some legal proposal that will be similar to or identical to this. So be it, but let it be as soon as possible, so be it. Don't wait for the election, you don't have to. You can boast in the election campaign that after 13 years you changed the law in May this year. So there's no statute of limitations. Such praises can be a pre-election card both in November and in October or in January as someone says there will be elections. It doesn't matter when it happens. Since time is running out, I thank you for your patience and I repeat once again that the HDSSB club will be for this legislative proposal by Mr Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109066	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109067	Thank you, Vice President. As a matter of fact, almost all of us, if I'm not wrong about what they said before, and I will support with great satisfaction this bill because I believe that it is the obligation of the state to protect the most vulnerable and vulnerable groups in society and it is absolutely unacceptable that, apart from not protecting vulnerable groups in society in this law, this law prevents discrimination between vulnerable groups in society, which is also an extremely important thing. I will not remind us of what the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia tells us, which is that we are not doing the difference between people and that everyone has the right to mean equal protection or equal rights based on certain situations and I find it absolutely unacceptable that all of the governments so far have since 2002 when it was due to move towards the creation of the Included Supplement Act have failed to do so and there is absolutely no justification that this law has not yet been discussed in the Croatian Parliament. I believe that since I assume that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will reject this bill, I believe that it has already rejected this bill in its opinion. I expect that, during at least that week, two weeks at the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the proposal of the Law on Inclusive Supplement will be discussed and that at least the Government of the Republic of Croatia will try to remove a portion of the mark, which, in its negative opinion on this law, is certainly on itself. Since so far, everything has really been said about this, here I am just repeating once more that I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109068	Thank you. Now we still have the closing word, so are we gonna make it to the break or should we leave it in 1500 hours? ... All right, then go ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109069	I'll be brief. I'm just gonna look back at these discussions the last ones were. I am now announcing that I will request an individual statement from every MP on this bill. I have to mention my colleague Baranovic, I'm sorry, Grubisic, was asking about the spending of money available, he mentioned different investments in cars and I don't know what he didn't mention. I'll just mention that today at today's session, the government made a decision to invest 20 million kuna in the project North University, a university which is already, which is also very questionable and disputable but for that is found. And another detail, crediting. Well, everyone knows very well at whose time the law was passed. It doesn't matter who initiated it, those who accepted it, adopted it and brought it, who have enough hands, they attribute it to themselves. Who's the initiator is absolutely irrelevant. The initiator is these people upstairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109070	Thank you. We'll stop working now. I'm setting a break. We will continue at 15.00 hours with item 11 on our agenda, that is this Final Proposal for the Law on the Implementation of the Regulation of Article 10. UN protocol on firearms. Good for everyone! It's 13,19 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109071	We are going to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Extra charge for children, first reading, P.Z. No. 801. I'm listening, dear representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109072	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. As a promoter, I am seeking the basis of Article 255 of the title vote of all MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109073	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will join the vote. Only before I read the conclusion. So we vote individually because electronic voting leaves a permanent trail and can be seen not for one day but for the next 10 years as who voted and more. The Rules of Procedure therefore obliges to vote individually and loudly. Therefore, Proposal for a conclusion: "The draft Act amending the Law on Extra charge for children proposed by Mr Mladen Novotek is not adopted for the reasons set out in the report of the working body and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the secretary of the plenary session to call individual representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109074	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109075	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but we didn't hear the text of the conclusion upstairs. If you could do it one more time, 'cause it really didn't come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109076	Yes, we can. That's for sure because I was talking in the microphone, I don't know how you heard it. Proposal for a conclusion: "The draft Act amending the Law on Extra charge for children proposed by Mladen Novak for the reasons set out in the report of the working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not adopted.". Did you and the public hear Croatia? And it will be written down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109077	Ingrid Antičević Marinović – abstentioned, Ante Babić – v, Vedran Babić – abstention, Branko Bačić, Jakša Balojevic, Martina Banić, Petar Baranovic - v, Milorad Batinić - abstention, Nevenka Bečić, Davor Bernardić, Goran Beus Richembergh – v, Vladimir Bilek – v, Dubravko Bilić – abstentioned, Boris Blažeković – v, Valter Bjemunčić, Josip Božinić, Davor Bozinović, Krešimir Bubalo, Dinko Burić, Dragan Crnogoorac, Ljiljana Cvetović – absten, Nada Čavlović Smiljanec – absten, Igor Čelj, Tomislav Culjak, Martina Dalic, Ada Damjanac, Yeah, here, we'll be back. [[Intruder: It will repeat.]] [[Intruder: Chesek v.]] Igor Češek – v, Tomislav Čuljak, Martina Dalić, Ada Damjanac – abstensive, Luka Denon – abstensive, Igor Dragovan, Ivan Drmić, Josip Djakić, Sašan Djužan, Šimo Đurđević, Dražan Đurović, Ilija Filipović, Gvosten, Srdjan Gjurković – v, Sunčana Glavak – v, Dragutin Glava – absten, Pedja Grbin – abstensive, Boro Grubišić – v, Ivan Grubišić, Mario Habek – absten, Domagoj Hajduković – Suzražan, Tožan, Tožljan, Nežad Hodžić – Mirela Holy, Mile Horvat – absten, Silvan, Silvano Hrelj – Šrjan, Branko Hrjan Hrg, Iližan – Iližan – Iližan, Marijažan, Marijažan Hrg, Marijaž, Marijaž, Marijažvč – Iližvić, Tožjan Žar, Tožjan Žar Žar Žar Žaržanžanžan, Tožanžanžanžanž, Tožan, Tožak, Tožar Žar Žar Žar Žar Žar Žar Žar Žaržar Žar Žar Žar Žar Žar Žar Žaržar Žaržak, Ižaržaržak, Ižar Žar Žaržak, Mr.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109078	Repeat those who have not responded.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109079	Branko Bačić, Jakša Baloević, Martina Banić, Nevenka Bečić, Davor Bernardić, Valter Bolunčić, Josip Božinić, Šimo Božinić, Drasimir Bubalo, Dinko Burić, Dragan Crnogoorac, Tomislav Čuljak, Martina Dalic, Ivan Drmić, Josip Djuljić, Šimo Djurđević, Drazen Juričev, Ilija Filipović, Ivan Grubišić, Damir Kajin, Tomislav Holly, Branko Hrg, Tonko Kerum, Tomislav Klarić, Jadranka Kosor, Borislav Kovačić, Darko Ledinčević, Martina Lović, Merzel, Damir Kajin, Tomislav Mirović, Marjan Šovarić, Marjan Žalić, Željko Klarić, Željko Kharić, Jadranka Šorić, Jadranka, Jadrić, Jadranka Kož
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109080	Let's just get accounting sorted out. Thank you very much. Can I publish? None of the MPs voted for the conclusion. 21 MPs voted against the conclusion, with 68 abstentions. So the conclusion was not accepted. ... Not accepted, not accepted. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The proposal for a conclusion was not accepted. ... Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted the vote today. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We schedule a plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, please hold this session of committees and clubs, on Wednesday 13.05. with a regular item on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the List of Legal Persons of Special State Interest, and then the following two points and so on. Cheers, I'll see you tomorrow!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109081	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Tomislav Ivić. - Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council on the financial rules The UN Protocol on firearms, establishing approval for the export of firearms, measures for the import and transport of firearms, parts and components and ammunition, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.813 A introductory, I apologize, here you go, Deputy Minister. I didn't know it was a start.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109082	I would like to introduce you to the proposal for a Law implementing Regulation 258/2012 of the EU on the implementation of Article 10. UN Protocol on firearms, establishing approval for the export of firearms, measures for the import and export of firearms, parts thereof and components and ammunition. At EU level, that Regulation was adopted on 14 March 2012 precisely on the implementation of that Article against illegal production and trade in firearms, parts thereof, components and ammunition supplementing the UN Convention against Transnationally Organized Crime, establishing authorisation for the export of firearms, measures for the import and transport of firearms, parts thereof, components and ammunition. The Regulation on the EU act is directly applicable to the territory of the Member States and the effective application of the same means the definition of competent authorities and procedures. The purpose of this law, starting from national legislation and practice, shall determine the competent authorities and procedures in order to ensure, within the framework of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, the assumptions for the effective application of the regulation in question and, in that sense, to determine its purpose, jurisdiction, supervision and infringement measures. The adoption of the law in question will have a positive impact on increasing the competitiveness of Croatian companies dealing with the transport of military goods, defence products and non-military killings on the world market, while ensuring a high level of security of the Republic of Croatia, as well as full compliance with the EU acquis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109083	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109084	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister. The HDZ Club will support the final proposal of the Law implementing the Regulation implementing Article 10. UN Protocol on firearms, establishing approval for the export of firearms, measures for the import and export of firearms, parts thereof and components and ammunition. The same is true because this final draft of the legislation is in line with EU legislation. As said by the Deputy Minister at EU level, a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2012 on the implementation of Article 10 has been adopted. UN Protocol against illegal production, trade in firearms, parts thereof, components and ammunition supplementing the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, establishing approval for the export of firearms, measures for the import and export of firearms, parts thereof, components and ammunition. The Regulation as an EU act may be applied directly in the field of Member States and the effective application of the same means the definition of competent authorities and procedures as required by the Articles of the Regulation itself. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The UN Protocol against illegal production and trade in firearms, parts thereof, components and ammunition supplementing the UN Convention referred to above. Therefore, the purpose of this law is, starting with national legislation and practice, to determine the competent authorities and procedures in order to ensure, within the framework of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, assumptions for the effective application of the Regulation. The law stipulates that the competent authority for the implementation of the regulation and of this law is the Ministry of Economy which, when implementing this law, is obliged to cooperate with the authorities of the State Administration responsible for customs oversight, internal affairs, foreign affairs and defence. The task of the Ministry of Economy is, inter alia, to issue, for the purposes of implementing this Regulation, authorisations for the export of firearms, parts thereof, and essential components and ammunition and to notify the competent authorities of the other Member States of the refusal, cancellation, suspension, suspension or partial suspension of the already issued export authorisation. Before issuing an export authorisation with firearms, parts and essential components and ammunition, the Ministry of Economy shall verify that the conditions for export are met. Authorisation to export the issue of the Ministry of Economy after the Commission has received a statement of approval for the export and import of goods of military use and non-military means of killing, the transfer of defence products and the provision of services for military use goods. The commission consists of representatives of defence, home affairs, foreign affairs, customs and the economy ministries. The economy ministry will reject the request to issue an export authorisation after the Commission has been denied. The supervision of the implementation of the obligations under this Act shall be carried out by the Ministry of Economy in cooperation with other bodies participating in the authorisation procedure and other competent authorities. Customs supervision of the implementation of the Regulation shall be carried out by the Ministry of Finance or the Customs Administration of the Republic of Croatia. The final draft laws are also prescribed sanctions for legal and responsible persons precisely with a view to implementing all the necessary measures and to ensure the implementation of this law and regulation of the EU. From the above, and as I said in the introduction of the HDZ Club, it will support the final draft law implementing Article 10. UN Protocol on firearms, establishing approval for the export of firearms, measures for the import and export of firearms, parts thereof and components and ammunition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109085	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Dunja Špoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109086	Thank you, Vice President. Companions of MPs and fellow MPs, Deputy Deputy Minister. In 2013, weapons and military equipment were exported from Croatia for nearly 200 million dollars, mostly newly manufactured weapons and military equipment that meet the most demanding world standards, and evidence of this is export destinations and customers from a series of most developed countries or countries that buy only the best and most expensive products. Thus, about 50% of the value of military exports is placed on the US market where Karlovac's "HS-Product" exported nearly half a million guns in 2013 alone, so 490 thousand different species and caliber. That puts them on the world top of the gun manufacturer. Ludbrska Company "Sestan" in 2013 excluded about 60 thousand helmets in 16 countries, has produced and exported more than 600 thousand helmets in more than 50 countries so far. A certain trend in Croatian military industry's takeoff from 2011 so 2 years later, exports rose almost 90%. The arms market of conventional weapons including the sale of donations and technology transfers between states, international organisations and armed groups and the non-inclusive export of small arms has grown in recent years and amid the recession crisis. At the same time, one person dies every minute in the world because of armed violence and categorically needs control to prevent illegal trade from being delivered to conflict zones and thus encourages deepening, continuing or the emergence of new conflicts and wars. Croatia is aware that anti-trafficking measures are one of the conditions of a safer world. Therefore, the value of imports-exports of military goods is far from negligible. The basic assumption of importing and exporting firearms is certainly order and security. Therefore, the implementation of this EU Parliament regulation is not only a mere acceptance of Croatia's obligations as a member of the EU but also necessarily a modern international arms market, as well as an improvement of security, under UN protocol against illegal production and trade in firearms. The Croatian military industry proved to have something to show in the International Exhibition of Arms and Military Equipment in Split this April. In addition to this law, the Croatian military industry will be more operationally competitive. The SDP Club accepts the final proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109087	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109088	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Leveric, Deputy Minister. The HDSSB club will discuss something different about this matter. In fact, it is quite clear that the arrangement and security of arms trafficking, and at national level, is a normal thing today. Today, the Croatian military industry is also concerned with production as someone said here helmet and pistols and light weapons, including long pipes, has advanced and is one of the export parts of the Croatian total industry. Of course, international agreements and contracts make the export of Croatian products, but here is the news if they are true that we should also fully legally and officially introduce instead of Croatian guns which are or to say self-cress, which are very priced and not only in us but also in the United States of Czech sums. That's what the media says, but I don't know if it's true or not. So here I read today that Croatian police will be equipped with Czech numbers, and we have domestic production. Well, I don't understand why I have to question those who are going to import for these other people's guns or weapons, and we have domestically valued weapons, I don't understand what this is really about, or something that might not be the subject of a debate in the House, but rather of some judicial institutions, not debates in the Parliament, and of course, the Parliament should not be silent about that. What I have reported for the debate hastily because I arrived at the last minute with the application is that Croatia plans to build a warehouse for radioactive waste from Krško and other sources of spent nuclear or radioactive fuel and material at the location of Cerkevac in the Municipality of Dvor on the Union, and that location is 500m from the land border, not the river Unom of BiH and municipalities in the casino-claus area. Why am I saying that? So here we are talking about the EU Parliament's 2012 regulation on illegal arms trade, which, according to the Croatian Parliament's adoption, and we are going to adopt the HDSB for that, should prevent that from happening. Any trade, any theft of stored radioactive substances from Cerkezovec, and I am saying this because given the modern appearance of ISIL and Croatia included according to sources from this Caliphate in Caliphate. So that someone with the right to reason with the right that it is also a Caliphate to steal a few barrels of radioactive waste for the production of potential nuclear weapons or to throw it into the Una River which is the border river between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina that affects the Sava in Jasenovac. It would be enough for the alarm and for the disaster of great proportions. I'm talking about that location of Cerkezovac is 500m from the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Casino-Clausian region. So this is just a contribution to the fact that the stands appear and report the stands in connection with the very location of the storage of radioactive waste, nuclear waste at that location. So for security reasons and this law, the bill of law is an opportunity to talk about it from this pay phone because when there was a vote on that location, and the storage of radioactive waste was one of the few, I think there were only three parliamentary deputies against, and I was one of those three. Mrs. Holly laughs because she was for that location without counting the geostrategic political position of that warehouse of a possible, future, possible warehouse 500 metres from the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. As for this legislative proposal itself, the competent authorities, the competences of those bodies established for the monitoring and implementation of this law, I have absolutely no say against it, and I am talking about that the HDSB Club will be to implement this proposal for a law implementing the European Union Regulation 258 by 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109089	Thank you, too. We have one replica. My colleague Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109090	Thank you, Vice President. Well, dear fellow Grubisic, I really don't know what kind of connection a low and medium radioactive waste dump has to do with this proposal for a law implementing the regulation because this regulation applies to how familiar I am with firearms and that's not exactly firearms in this sense in which the regulation prescribes it. I have to correct what you said, so I did vote in favour of the proposal for a strategy on the management of medium and low radioactive waste, but that document did not define a location for disposal, i.e. a permanent dump, low and medium radioactive waste, but provided three options for the disposal of this waste. One was exports to third countries, one was care for in Slovenia and the third was related to care for Croatia. I believe that the duty of Croatia as a responsible state to have a dump of low and medium radioactive waste because it does not only apply to nuclear waste from Krško, but also to all low and medium radioactive waste produced in technological processes, in health institutions in Croatia. There are thunderbolts, so we should still know what we're talking about when we talk about these topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109091	Thank you. Answer to the replica of his colleague Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109092	My colleagues, Holly, let me tell you that at least I know as much as you do about radioactivity and radioactive substances because I'm a medic, so I also had an object, so I learned about it. About low and medium radioactive waste, you say he can't, that it's not the subject of this debate, of talking about firearms. It can certainly be a firearm made of such substances. I wouldn't want to repeat those things that happened in '45. the years, we know well, it's enriched uranium or highly enriched but you have in the war in the Balkans, so in Serbia some other low bombs have been used, so it's said with a low-end uranium, as it might say. Therefore, low and medium radioactive uranium. So I think we're going to say that you were in favour of taking care of it in Croatia, that there were three solutions. I think most of the debates concerned exactly the warehouse of radioactive waste in the municipality of Dvor, so that's what Cherkezovac was talking about. So he got the impression that you were up for it because you raised your hand for it. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109093	This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109094	Final proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation No. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the UN Protocol on firearms and establishing approval for the export of firearms, measures for the import and export of firearms, parts thereof and components and ammunition, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 813. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law and please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that unanimously with 95 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the proposed conclusion, or that the P.Z.E. law has been passed. No. 813. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109095	We continue with: - Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures; the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 8. Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. You've received the motion for an act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. With us I Deputy Minister of Economy Allen Leveric. Introductory Deputy? You don't want to. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. In my brief discussion, I will not trouble the proposal the government made by name and last name, but I am asked two dilemmas, two questions I would ask if Mr Leveric could answer. The first question is, is the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures a significant, important, important body in terms of system functioning and public procurement, as well as preventing possible points of corruption risk? When she was founded and established, we began from the fact that she had a very large part of it. However, according to the government's behaviour, the commission does not seem to matter at all. Why? On 22 October last year, we discussed the Commission's work report, and then I read from the report that at the end of 2012, there were only 3 members of the Commission of the 9 laws of the prescribed members. So for several months, the commission worked with 3 out of 9 members and the report found that this fact did not affect the quality of the commission's work at all. Then I asked the question on October 22, 2014, how many members of the commission existed on that day, so how many members of the commission had that day. Now, I'm not 100% convinced, but I think Mr. Leveric is saying that you were on behalf of the government in the assembly when it was said and I didn't get an answer from anyone and I claimed that even then the commission was not complete. Then in December of last year, we had a re-election of one already existing member. That was the eighth one again. And only 6 months after considering the report and finding that the 9 commission has dropped to 3, 5, 6, 8 members, the government comes with a proposal to finally elect both the 9th member and the member of the commission. How it is possible that all this time it was not necessary to complete the full composition of the commission or what it is in the process, which conditions must be met for the government to find a sufficient number of candidates to fill in the full composition of the commission. I hope that at last today someone will answer what circumstances have affected that the commission could only work with 3 of the 9 laws of the prescribed members and then 5 and 6 and now 6 months 8 and now comes choice 9. Secondly, under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and Members of the Commission, they fall under the law and are obliged to submit property cards. I believe that since it took the government six months to propose the appointment of the 9th member of the commission to do all the necessary checks and controls and, among other things, asked the candidate whether her property card was all right. If you didn't do this, I suggest you do it before the vote, because yesterday morning in the assembly we realized that the property cards found that the head man of the Personal Data Protection Agency lives in an apartment owned by the MUP and paid rent 303 kuna, and that the second head of HBOR has been credited, we found out today at 3% interest and that today their resolution was proposed at the government meeting. Apparently not because of the solution the agency made, but because of their property cards. I remind you that the agency's decision to download part of the data or ban on public publication has been made on the basis of anonymous phone calls from officials. It was never explained who were there to protest. And now I speak in principle, given that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest states that it applies to all persons appointed or elected by the Croatian Parliament, including members of this Commission, and when proposing other members of the body to which the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest applies. I gently suggest to the Government that, in addition to the CVs and the copy of the documents, you carry out a check on property cards before the appointment, so that you are not in a situation and the need to propose or resolve the people you proposed to choose a few months or a year ago, and the reasons for the resolution could be or should be known to you when proposing their appointments. Such an approach and clearer answers to these questions would show the seriousness of the Government when making a proposal to the Parliament for someone's choice or appointment, especially those covered by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. And finish the next one. If the government had the need today to propose a resolution of two leaders allegedly because of their property cards, then I must conclude that the scale that this government is headed with the prime minister has made me look like a scale that is in an elevator in a building that has 10 floors. Well, that ladder is... on the ground floor when it comes to one staff, on Wednesday on the 5th floor, on Friday on the 10th floor, to keep rising and descending, depending on the daily political needs. And to make sure that, when accepting the Government's proposal, the removal of these dilemmas about property cards must be done before, not after that, not as evidence of the plantation of muscle and morality, but the exact procedure and the verification of all the data needed. Perhaps I admit, after six months, the government was supposed to find a candidate whose property card would be impeccable that after six months it would not be necessary to propose their resolution. I cannot accept that the bodies that are significant in the fight against corruption have not been filled in their composition for years, and that the Government, when proposing elections with one word, does not explain to the Parliament, in any sentence, not once before, which was the problem that the bodies were not filled. And the reasons for this particular proposal, so why does this particular person propose to the Parliament are neither in the signs nor in the indications. It's the only candidate or candidate that's registered, that the government has found or is amongst the more good or excellent selected best proposals. If it is not already written in the government's submission to the President of the Parliament, it would be correct for the ministers and his associates who have the power to present on behalf of the Government of the Parliament the proposal in the opening statement to something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109097	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy. Well actually a colleague of Lesar's made me more or less comfortable now that everything I was going to say was actually important and he said it. We don't have much, and the introduction wasn't to find out, talk, discuss it, about the candidate herself, that is, here's the proposed candidate because we haven't heard anything about it, nor would there be anything in principle and say from this CV in question about this appointment. And indeed, 2014 was debated somewhere here in the second half of the year on this Commission's 2013 report, and it said that most of that mandate was working with three members and that it was all right and they had perfect successes, so many hundreds of thousands or I don't know what solved cases, that it was all ok. But to continue, therefore, the proposal remains to have nine members of the commission plus the whole one, those professional services that continue to exist. And that's definitely where the question opens up, and now here's the government rushed into the process of analysing the necessary and unnecessary agencies, commissions, commissions, the number of people in all of this. But it goes on and on and on thoroughly fills what can still be filled. So if the dilemma was in it or if it all worked out with three members, then maybe it could have been thought out, to argue that this commission also fell to five eventually and to seven. It's not filled until the last hour to be filled in because it's clearly expected that changes in power happen, so let our people sit where they should be sitting and be as many as possible. We do not know in which competition candidate Deskovic was proposed. We do not dispute any professional, or any quality, qualifications and we see that even after completing the school the lady immediately went to some kind of administration and worked in the Office of State Administration. So from 2006 to 2013, she worked at the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures as an expert advisor. In 2014 he goes to Croatia post office of public procurement experts probably in a package with a staff solution when mail and shifts took place, when the shifts in Croatia were made to the post office and all the circus we witnessed. And now, after one year of this successful practice, he returns to the big door as a member of the Committee, or Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. We have nothing to comment on except to find out it's that current. Whether any public selection procedure, public tender has been carried out, whether other young people or professional people are left with the possibility of applying to such jobs, or, as usual, how this government does so for the purpose, picks, looks for a similar person who will satisfy here and formal-professional qualifications. A little practice in this body and this body, and here's probably the most similar in terms of political furniture. Not only does it seem a shame and probably throws certain doubts in a way, because of the way the candidate herself was appointed here, I say I don't know and I don't know the lady but that she passed the procedure, that she was in certain competition, that she came out as the best candidate of all honour. Here's a good one for her, and we all got together to make sure that the choice was the best. But here comes the appointment. There's the data, so you vote out as soon as you vote. But only the finding of the path of staffing, the entanglement continues. I only find that because of the way, not because of the person this time seems to be. As far as the brief comment is concerned, perhaps Mr. Lesar is now not clear to me how this candidate would fill out any conflict of interest document when she's not even appointed. The law says that when it's called that then the cards for conflict of interest are filled. The other thing is whether some other kind of check can or should be. But, of course, I'm quite in agreement with what he said is now going on some kind of shift like in that general chaos, in general madness right now, we wouldn't, we shouldn't publish, we should have taken it off, we shouldn't have taken it off. Personally I don't think you should have downloaded but not because of the decision itself and the agency's solution, it's a state body that has the right to make decisions whether they are correct or not but are solutions. Why, let's say, the Committee of Conflict of Interest didn't informally resolve that these five fields, which are done today by high school students, simply marks it and download it from the Internet. Well, it's in the base in two days. It's a spectacle of all that. Even after that agency solution, this commission could have done this informationally in two days' time in the real estate card databases themselves. Kids, credits I don't know, so today it's quite familiar that it could have been done. Why these two bodies, the whole government was doing this spectacle, and now it's changing for some silly same reasons, is obviously all in the context of how it works and how it's done today. We will, of course, see whether or not we support this proposal until the moment of the vote, precisely for the reasons I have stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109099	Thank you. We have one replica, Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109100	I believe you lost this when you apostrophed my part of the debate in filling the property card. Of course, no one has to fill in before the appointment. I said I believed that the government had checked that it was all right before the motion was made. Because every proposer and you were a minister and you suggested some candidates, I don't know if you've asked each of them if they're okay with your card and your property, or when someone walks into your kidneys, they'll find something for you? Or maybe you didn't? I'd say I've always asked that before. That's what I meant when I was talking about checking. And surrender to the commission after the appointment within the legally prescribed time limit. So did the leaders of the AZOP, they filled out the property card and handed over and the problem of its contents became only when there was a dispute, let's say, their solution to the data ban. Now, whether the commission could have removed that data for eight days by pressing the keys on the keyboard or not, I'm not sure, but let's let it go. But I'm going to ask you this, and what if AZOP's solution had nothing to do with anonymous phone calls but the problem of a state official who is one of the data in the property card, and it's about the last pay paid by a former employer, she didn't fill out. So this solution was to remove it and please that official so that it no longer has to be filled out. What if the time of the future shows that this is actually the reason for the whole dispute these days? So let's not rush, see, wait till the end, maybe we'll find out anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109101	Thank you. Answer? No answer? Well, you've raised your hand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109102	Yeah, I raised my hand. If we don't go into that controversy now, of course I don't know all the reasons, because you're saying it's going to spin yet and there's going to be such or such truths or untruths in the light of day, and let that water flow, as it is. I'm sure about it or at least that's it, I don't know how it was made in information and whether it's a simple copy or whether it's filled in databases with data on the property card but if there's a database then 25 years ago or 30 years ago it could then be solved by a simple software solution to block certain data and not go online or just search. So that was my intervention. And the rest of course are further speculation and it wouldn't be convenient to get involved in it. Let those who cooked it all up now try to eat it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109103	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. I would like to thank Deputy Minister Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109104	Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The debate is closed. I am voting on a motion for a decision to appoint and I am asking you to vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 83 votes for, 14 abstentions, nothing against the proposed decision being made in the text as proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109105	We continue with - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on official controls carried out in accordance with the rules on food, food for animals, animal health and welfare, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 831; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture. You've received reports. With us is Deputy Minister of Agriculture Snježana Spain, introductoryly. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109106	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Official Controls Act implements rules on food and feed for EU animals, and Regulation 882/2004, Commission Decision 2006/677, Commission Decision 2007/363. and Commission Decision 2008/654. EU legislation on food and feed for animals is based on the principle that operators in animal and food business at all stages of production, processing and distribution in facilities under their control are obliged to ensure that food and feed meets the requirements of food and feed regulations relevant to their activities all in order to ensure its health and hygiene. For the purposes of determining whether food and food business operators satisfy all prescribed requirements for food and feed safety, official controls shall be organised and the competent authorities and their tasks relating to the organisation, coordination and implementation of official controls shall be laid down by law. The competent authorities authorised to carry out official controls shall meet a number of operational criteria in order to ensure their impartiality and effectiveness, or must ensure and dispose of a sufficient number of qualified and experienced employees and shall possess appropriate means and equipment to carry out their tasks properly. According to the provisions of the body's law, the departments are responsible for agriculture, veterinary inspection and agricultural inspection and the Ministry of Health, sanitary inspection. In relation to the specific areas referred to in Regulation 882 of 2004 for the implementation of official controls, it is proposed that, with the responsibility of the veterinary inspection and the agricultural inspection, the competent departments of agriculture, the official controls on fishing vessels and landing places are prescribed instead of veterinary inspection. According to the Maritime Fisheries Act, the fishing inspection shall be responsible for the control of landing sites and this proposal of the law, instead of the two veterinary and fishing inspections of landing sites, shall be carried out in the future by only one inspection and the jurisdiction of the customs administration of the Ministry of Finance in the import of consignments of food and food for animals not listed in the list of consignments of food for non-animal origin subject to the veterinary examination and for the documentary and identification checks for the import of food consignments protected by designations of origin and food in organic production. It is also proposed to establish, instead of agricultural inspection, livestock inspections and food quality inspections, a single agricultural inspection to carry out official controls of the prescribed law and specific regulations and at the same time to comply with the agricultural law which entered into force on 18 March 2015 and prescribed the unification of all inspections into one inspection. According to Regulation 178 of 2002, I consider myself to be a food and this proposal provides for the jurisdiction of the agricultural inspection to carry out official controls and strong alcoholic beverages, aromatised wines, aromatised wine-based drinks and aromatised wine-based cocktails. The proposed law also defines more precisely and clearly the provisions relating to official sampling carried out during official controls, provisions on reference and official laboratories which analyse samples taken during official controls and provisions on the registration and approval of food facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109107	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Unless we're starting a club debate. On behalf of HDZ Representative Branko Boxti's Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy, ladies and gentlemen. The basis of EU food and feed legislation rests on the fact that all food and feed business entities are obliged to comply with the requirements of food and feed regulations in all stages of production, processing and distribution. Food and food for animals must be safe and healthy. Union legislation is used by a series of regulations to ensure that this objective is achieved. One of the basic factors that contributes to food safety quality, animal disease prevention and human treatment is animal health and welfare. This bill further harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with Community legislation and all in order to carry out official controls more effectively and economically. In view of the merger of agricultural livestock inspection for the quality of a single agricultural inspection, the provisions of the law are further adapted to the Agriculture Act. A clearer definition of the competence of individual inspections for the implementation of official controls relating to food and feed for animals should, and we sincerely hope to result in better control of the entire system. I believe that there are no agents in this Chamber who would object to me calling it so to supplement the provisions of the Law on official controls of food, animal food and animal health and animal welfare. If we look at this from the perspective of improving our agricultural competitiveness and the conditions of a large EU market, it is precisely the level of respect for the provisions of Regulation 882/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council on official controls and accompanying acts which are linked to it by guaranteeing the quality of Croatian agriculture and its related economic activities. Not so long ago we discussed the aflatoxin affair in milk, we discussed the milk control problems that come from third countries, non-EU countries. The rule on the quality of fresh raw milk provides basic requirements for the quality of milk, methods and sampling for testing the quality of fresh raw milk as well as the conditions for authorising laboratories in which control of fresh raw milk is carried out. The Ministry of Agriculture carried out an analysis of livestock and raw milk on farmed milk cows and in the official results of the analysis carried out was found to be minimal for consumer health and no adverse deviation of the M1 aflatoxin level from the intended concentrations. The statement said that 158 samples were taken by industry means the largest dairy in Croatia, 50 on farms and 11 on imports, meaning border controls. Following were the issuing of orders to suspend the delivery of milk to 11 farms, resulting in the costs incurred by the Ministry of Agriculture. We are coming up with the fact that the Croatian dairy sector is controlled in principle from field to table from animal analysis, and analysis of raw milk on farms to analysis of finished products. What, though, does the final consumer who buys milk on the shelves of a store have? On the one hand, I have a Croatian dairy sector, which according to the minister, is under control, and on the other hand we have imported milk produced in third countries. In the aflatoxin affair in enhanced controls related to imports of milk from trade already packed into our trade policies from third countries, a higher concentration of aflatoxins in milk produced by one of the BiH milkers was established. This is about increased controls that have established a higher level of alphatoxin, but we are working to hear the explanation of Madam Deputys on what are regular ways of controlling the milk already packed into our stores from those third countries. Here's final, in front of the HDZ Club, we'll give our support to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109109	Thank you, too. It's over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109110	Thank you very much. Here I will say something in general to improve official controls for the quality of all food and food for animals, not just milk. So in the last two years, the Ministry of Agriculture has worked intensively to authorise official and reference laboratories authorised to take samples and control of food and food for animals. The biggest step, and this could be seen through the media, was done in the olive area or the control of olive oil where we had last and this year the withdrawal of products that were declared as Extra Virgin Olive Oil, which were not. Significant funds have been invested related to the establishment of a sensory and organoleptic examination panel of olive oil. The same results we had with honey control, so part of the analysis was done in the official laboratories of the Republic of Croatia was invested in the equipment. And about milk, unfortunately or fortunately related to aflatoxins, they were the result of a very bad weather year, so there was a lot of rain and there was an infection in the fields of food that ended in cattle. Very quickly the advisory service went out on the ground, education was made, controls were made with agricultural producers was much done. The Ministry of Agriculture has allocated significant resources, provided livestock food to those economies that have had problems with aflatoxin all with the aim of investing in the same quality through the brand of milk of Croatian farms, so for our end-users the recognizable milk produced on Croatian farms, there is visibility at EU level in order to avoid the sale of such milk outside with significant quantities of aflatoxin. All of this was aimed at the education of our agricultural producers and our industry means dairy. Stronger controls were also introduced by the milkers, so they have their own laboratories and have been strengthened by the Croatian Agricultural Agency and the Reference Laboratory. What I would like to say in the end about milk, and I think I said several times in this House, so the quality of Croatian milk is 96% of the first class in the ransom. Why? Because the rule on the quality of fresh raw milk, which was first passed around 2004 or 2005, when the control of milk began, was not allowed for agricultural holdings to hand over or to milk farmers to buy milk that is not under the first class. For example, data can be found in other Member States, in Spain the purchase of milk is 40%, in Germany the purchase of first class milk is 60%, I stress in Croatia it is 96% what it says about the extremely high quality of milk, but of course about less flexibility related to prices and potential market disturbances that come because it is, of course, much easier to buy less quality milk than if it is almost 100% first-class milk. Of course, it is also a message that food production in Croatia, the production of milk of extremely high quality, which places us on the EU market in a very high place, but consequently generates high costs for farmers, primarily for our dairy producers regarding their financial ability to pay off loans and competitiveness on the dairy market especially in this year when milk quotas have been abolished. But we hope that through and through additional support and Rural Development Programme and a whole series of measures and secured 50 million euros and production-related support, but thanks to both the High House and the consensus on the Agricultural Land Act and the allocation of agricultural land primarily to cattle farmers without a public call, this will affect the reduction of the costs of their production and the increase of competitiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109111	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy, you mentioned the control of olive oil. I assume you're familiar with the problems our olivers have in the Republic of Croatia. All year ago, you've been humming, last year, a spider's eye, an olive fly. I assume you're familiar with the problems in southern Italy with the bacteria that came in the end of the last century, 11 million trees are being destroyed by the threat of moving to this part of Primorje Croatia. Two years ago, the Masses of Omis Pajicus worked privately, self-initiatedly related to the competitions that have been analysed, they took the oils that were in one market, the Public Health Office in Split was doing an analysis of these oils and only one oil was in line with the declaration that was on the label. So you on the market in stores don't have such a large amount of labels that it would be a really big problem. It's on two hands, I dare say. So it's relatively easy to do. And let's make that effort to really keep olive oil in line with what's on the label.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109113	Thank you. The answer to the replica please, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109114	So here is very short, actually in cooperation with the olive oil producers' associations we started 2 years ago in the establishment of a system that would confirm the quality of our but of course also check the quality of those oils on the Croatian market. We had an olive oil withdrawal that was misreported. Regarding the xilla, I can say that the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, together with experts on the ground, took samples in Istria, Dalmatia in cooperation with the olive groves and did not confirm the presence of xilla. Of course, it will be continuously monitored together with the Association of Agricultural Olive Oil Producers and olive growers will be continuously monitored on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109115	Thank you, Deputy Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. We'll be done with work for the day. Tomorrow we will continue with the Proposal for a Household Activity Act. Have a good day. Session interrupted at 15.57 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-07-0.u109116	Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Official Controls implemented in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and welfare, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 831. The debate on the final bill is closed, closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 96 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Controls, which are implemented in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and animal welfare in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
