ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103533	... If you'll excuse me, I would use this opportunity to congratulate the ladies, the esteemed ladies and the female MPs, to congratulate them on International Women's Day, even in advance. [[Specially enabled.]] Dear MPs, during the past period civil protection has experienced the root changes that began in 1994 to transfer it from the local community to the Ministry of Defence, and in 1995 from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of the Interior, and in the end since 2005 since they have been operating in the State Protection and Rescue System. Major accidents and disasters require great strain on regular operating forces, while reacting is particularly complex in situations where regular systems and their capacity cannot meet the needs of this challenge, unfortunately, that happens. This is precisely why a civil protection system is being set up as one specific organisational framework whose action should be taken to save people, material and cultural goods and the environment, using how we have listed all the operational forces, resources, central authorities of the state administration and all the other capacities with which the Government has at its disposal. The adoption of the Civil Protection System Act would solve the existing problem of conflicts between the concepts of protection and rescue and civil protection through the implementation of a comprehensive normative reform of the system and the renaming of the system of protection and rescue into the civil protection system will carry out a meaningful harmonisation and standardisation with the situation in the EU in a way that protection and rescue in major accidents and disasters is defined as a function of the civil protection system. The reform of the existing system of protection and rescue on the basis of a new concept of civil protection systems continues to implement the provisions of the civil protection system, i.e. in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, according to which civil protection is one of the tasks of the self-government local self-government self-government itself by implementing the direct needs of citizens at all levels of the single system, simplifying the procedure with the application of the basic principles of system-building and governing powers at all levels of the system as well as the obligations of the participants of civil protection measures, defining the competence and accountability within the system, the principles of the declaration of major accidents and disasters, the issues of complete, calling, activation and mobilisation of civil protection units and bodies. They also propose major changes in the basis of experience from activities undertaken during floods in the area of the County Fair, May and June 2014 relating to coordination and management for all levels of command or civil protection system in such a way as to create preconditions for avoiding overlapping the competences of the currently established security and rescue headquarters and civil protection command. Under the provisions of this law, the number of command and co-ordination bodies in the civil protection system will be reduced, the powers of all levels of the system of local, regional, state, and, with the adoption of quality normative solutions based on the principle of subsidiarity, solidarity, continuity of action, regulation of the competences and relations between system levels, in particular in the use of operational forces in disasters and major accidents. For the purpose of coordinating the activities of the system at all levels of local, regional and state-owned, one professional operating body shall be established and that is the headquarters of civil protection. For the sake of more effective action of the operational forces on the ground, solutions are also proposed relating to the responsibility of the unit leader of local, regional self-government who are directly responsible and authorised to manage the system in major accidents and disasters. At local level for operational management tasks, a professional person is appointed, while the leaders are still responsible for creating conditions for the operation of the system, coordination, policy, planning, development and financing. It is important to point out that the Civil Protection System is developing on the already existing emergency services capacities, adding competent and prepared capabilities with several levels of legal personality formation, citizens' associations, the citizens themselves, in which the principle of determining so-called. military schedule, military officials on duty in civil protection. This creates assumptions for the inclusion of members of associations already adequately engaged in the protection of the population and constitutes the basis for the completion of civil protection units established on the basis of the need for an assessment of the risks to the area of competence. In order to create conditions for the establishment of a civil protection system for the level of units of local and regional self-government, regional self-governments are proposed to simplify the organisation and response in a way that opens up the possibility of joining several municipalities on the basis of the establishment and financing of bodies for the execution of administrative and other self-government activities of those units in the field of civil protection on the basis of a risk assessment for the area of competence. It should also be pointed out that the units of local, regional (regional) self-government are committed to providing financial resources for the development of civil protection systems, to organise operational forces in accordance with the real need, as everyone will have different needs based on risk assessment. There will be a risk of one danger, elsewhere, in another area, which ultimately needs to result in the need to invest less financial resources in the system, which should be noted that this law prescribes the obligation to finance civil protection without concrete percentages in relation to sources of funding, noting that the needs for the insurance of financial resources stem from the risk assessment for that area. Floods in the County Posavina have shown that existing sources of funding were not sufficient at the time to pay all costs incurred, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to provide additional resources to settle the cost of action in implementing measures and activities to eliminate the consequences. Thus, this law provides for the possibility of setting up an extra-financial fund to pay the costs of the operation of the operational civil protection forces from which funds, which could be transferred from one fiscal year to another for the same purpose at the national and at the level of local, regional (regional) self-government. As participants of the civil protection system, citizens are not subject to financial obligations but as physical staff who, after the call of the competent persons or bodies, would be engaged in the implementation of measures and activities of the civil protection system, would then have the same material and other rights as members of the civil protection unit. Following this proposal, the law regulates the civil protection system in the Republic of Croatia and the conditions for willingness to participate in the provision of humanitarian aid and other countries which, unfortunately, can be exposed to the same risks as we, in line with standards and good practice in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103534	Thank you very much. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103535	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. You've been talking here about conflicts between protection and rescue and civil protection, to be clear, what's now certainly wrong, and it has to be done to make this thing work and to start building a system that is now bureaucratized and practically blocked by this red tape. It is not known who should do what, in the end it has been shown by examples of floods that citizens are better self-organised than the system is organized. I'm interested in you now mentioning here on several occasions local self-government. Is the bill in line and whether it has been considered together, here is concrete with the Association of Cities because most cities will be the ones who will have to isolate the finances and the heads of cities are basically responsible for eventually not giving God some disaster and disaster that will happen. So once they're involved, you're also talking about funding, what the role of funding will be, whether this system will be flowing. You were talking about the inclusion of associations, did you think about this moment being an association, if it's even an association, I think it's something more, it's a fire community that must be the foundation of actually civil protection in the Republic of Croatia. It is the only system that has spread to us throughout Croatia, which is practically in every settlement, especially in rural areas. To be the foundation of it. So what is the role here and how it is in line with the Association of Cities as the basic unit of local self-government that will bear the greatest burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103536	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. You've been talking here about conflicts between protection and rescue and civil protection, to be clear, what's now certainly wrong, and it has to be done to make this thing work and to start building a system that is now bureaucratized and practically blocked by this red tape. It is not known who should do what, in the end it has been shown by examples of floods that citizens are better self-organised than the system is organized. I'm interested in you now mentioning here on several occasions local self-government. Is the bill in line and whether it has been considered together, here is concrete with the Association of Cities because most cities will be the ones who will have to isolate the finances and the heads of cities are basically responsible for eventually not giving God some disaster and disaster that will happen. So once they're involved, you're also talking about funding, what the role of funding will be, whether this system will be flowing. You were talking about the inclusion of associations, did you think about this moment being an association, if it's even an association, I think it's something more, it's a fire community that must be the foundation of actually civil protection in the Republic of Croatia. It is the only system that has spread to us throughout Croatia, which is practically in every settlement, especially in rural areas. To be the foundation of it. So what is the role here and how it is in line with the Association of Cities as the basic unit of local self-government that will bear the greatest burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103537	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, Mr. Tonkovic, you said in your introduction the reason why this law was passed because of the floods that were in the Republic of Croatia last year. I will, in fact, remind you that in 2004, the Croatian Parliament passed the Rescue Act with certain amendments that were made in 2007 and 2010, and in Article 2 of that law, it says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the management and effective functioning of the disaster protection and rescue system. Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying because of those floods that happened and actually there was the state showing how disorganized she was, one day Milanovic went, the second day Vrdoljak went, the third day Milanka Opačić went and in fact there was no idea where the headquarters was, there was no way to function then. Almost seven days later, one was created, one headquarters formed in the County. Let's just remember during the Homeland War we had headquarters that worked perfectly at the time and actually knew all the ways in which it worked under the circumstances that were then. This, the adoption of this law is in fact the fulfillment of certain forms because of those civil protection mechanisms of the European Union, but this law will in practice not solve anything, Mr Hrg spoke to you about it. If you see in this law only that units of local self-government are obliged to organise public shelters in their area I will tell you that in the municipalities here and from which I come we have 68 settlements in these municipalities, and how and how to provide these funds for public shelters. This will not be possible and in fact this law will not be enforceable in practice, and this is another imposition on local self-government units without a thorough analysis with central authority and this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103538	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. ... Did you get that? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103539	Thank you, Vice President. Here, Deputy Minister, we have long discussed the preparation of this Civil Protection Act, we have given as the Croatian Fire Department a series of objections, something has been accepted but a key observation that has not been accepted is that the operational forces of the civil protection system are not included in the Croatian Fire Department, and the forces of the Croatian Red Cross of the Mountain Rescue Service have been put in place which is commendable and normal and what should be, and the fire forces have been put into operation by the fire department. It's even funnier here when you later stated in the following article that the operational force is protecting and saving and firepower, command. I don't think that's acceptable. I don't know how much you've been involved in this final part of the law, but you can't bet that the operational forces of the fire department that enter the forces of civil protection are the fire departments. This can be the fire department and DVD command, all of these are fire departments, the Croatian Fire Department is a roof organisation of Croatian fire departments that is 140 years old, so 140 years old works, all systems have passed in these 140 years, and here are the witnesses here and the mayors on the ground know that this is the strength of Croatian fire department and how the Croatian fire department is formed. The Croatian Fire Department was established from the municipality, the county to the Croatian Fire Community by means of a clear vertical and verdict of the Constitutional Court was ordered to respect the Fire Department Act that firefighters must join that community because it is a force, it is an operational action. So I think that until the second reading, you should think about changing it and putting what we have made as an observation and it's only normal because firefighters are organized through Croatia's fire community, except for the chief fire commander who's in the state administration, but it's also something radical that needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103540	Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103541	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister Tonkovic, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, even in this election campaign that went by, you heard the swearing of community, community, we'll do everything together. The community's getting smaller and smaller. We have abolished everything that could be a union, where we have cherished unity. Remember how it actually happened, maybe we're older people a little sentimental, how it came to be that the community started to end. It's not what we invented, of course I'm left-wing, neoliberal capitalism. Remember where they started, remember the regular army and remember the introduction of a professional private army, which is why it started. Not because... for profit. Many countries introduced by professional armies today are far more unprepared than they used to be, but it's not a topic, so I'm not going to talk about it. But now I'm talking about community. Remember that community of civil protection, and even one action, movement, I don't know what to call it, which we're making fun of today but it's not so funny, it's nothing to surprise us about. Remember what happened in local communities, in municipalities, as far as I know, only contributions were built in Međimurje. Remember all those citizens' meetings in local communities when they really decided, when they came and met and they told me we'd do it and there was no one above who said no, you won't do it. I remember when we drove General Laundromat humanitarian aid to Sunjo, let's just say stop for food, then once we drove the last truck then he said there's no more humanitarian aid. Why, he says it's all professional now, I'm sad about it. Why, well, because someone sold it, you know how much tomatoes, potatoes sold at multiple prices. Everything needs to be stopped where it would be humanitarian, where citizens could self-organize. Why is civil protection the way we knew it before it was abolished? Because of the fear of organized citizens, that's all. Because of the fear that at the lowest levels citizens are not organised. Civil protection has been consciously abolished. I think they will be most pleased with this Mr. Pavle Kalenić, who, if you remember, has not yet passed the Civil Protection Act. Is that a good law? This is one template we can talk about. If civil protection, and this depends again on practice, will be organised as it has been organised these years, then with civil protection we have done nothing. The idea of the need to protect the population in the Republic of Croatia or in the area of today's Croatia, primarily the city of Zagreb, appeared there not last but the last century after a major earthquake in the city of Zagreb, there in the 1880s. In 1932, the city of Zagreb, or headship, decided to build a civil protection school and the school of civil protection worked until '45. the years on the Ksaver road and after that the school was abolished and a new way of civil protection was being built. From 1973 to 1994, civil protection in Croatia developed at local levels within municipalities, or city administration. And that is, the meaning of civil protection logic. Civil protection should involve citizens. Someone had just said that the state system was functioning at the time of a major natural disaster at the time of the flood. Not until after seven days, headquarters was established. I still think that when big elemental disasters like the flood are, as I say, I'll say as an atheist, don't give God an earthquake, of course, that you need to be founded at the state level, you need to set up headquarters not after 7 days. It's not, it's about the government's incompetence, the incompetence of the state's apparatus if something is established after 7 days. I remember at the time of the war, during the alarms in the city of Zagreb, the first night, the first night it started to work, the citizens began to act at the level of local communities. We've been gathering together and then we can talk about a community that's completely gone, because the state has done everything to make anything go away that might seem self-organizing. Of course civil protection isn't self-organizing. Civil protection works well in local, in some local environments. I don't know all the local environments, but I know it works well in Rijeka and I know it works well in the city of Zagreb. I know before how she acted in some municipalities civil protection. Of course everything depends on what civil protection will be about the government, how much it really wants about the government or governments, we're not just talking about one because it's not, this government is on its way out. And it's not just about one government and civil protection that can be a matter of politics. It's supposed to be a matter of real protection for citizens. And if we're going to think about protecting citizens and if we're going to think about being a society we need to act as soon as some elemental accident happens then we're going to realize that this is above the parties, that civil protection is a very big need and that it needs to be decentralised. A little while ago, the deputy minister spoke about how it was transferred earlier from the local community, so we went to the ministry. Logically, why the ministry? One man only needs civil protection, a minister or a Prime Minister. He'll be civil protection. It's not just a matter of decisions. The thing is that society is organized. And if we're going to pursue that, and if we're going to forget the ideological signs that may have once had civil protection, but it had a purpose, a good purpose, it worked well and it was well organized. Let's not ruin what was good. Like we were in '45. Destroyed what was good so we began in the 1990s, after the '94s, after the Homeland War to destroy what was good. It just means we still have obstacles in our heads. The Croatian people, someone has mentioned themselves in replicas before, can organize themselves. The Croatian people are the people who have empathy and it is the Croatian people who will accept the civil protection they once were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103542	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103543	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Members, in your presentation, you pointed out that essentially everything that was worth being together had been destroyed and ceased to exist and that it was seeking professionalization. I agree with you in part and I agree with you in part that there is this strong tendency to see everything professionalized but not entirely. I would like to point out primarily, I must point out as a representative who comes from this eastern part of Zagreb where the strong action of voluntary fire companies in Sesvedi, Dubrava, especially this prigorje part, are people who work absolutely on a volunteer base, on the principle of this very community, and I think that they are one very good example that everything that has been well changed has not been destroyed. And later in the debate, I will advocate that exactly these forces of voluntary firepower are involved as much as possible in this system, to help them both materially and organisationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103544	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103545	Dear counterpart Pandek, I did not speak of fire companies, which fully agree with Mr. Hrg that this is one foundation which is a good foundation and that Croatian fire companies are truly fulfilling their mission. I was talking about civil protection that is not really in Croatia, organised civil protection we know there is no in Croatia. And I wasn't talking about this government or any other government. I was talking about the need. When I talked about professionalization, the goal of professionalising services that were once built on the foundations of community not only in Croatia, above all, and in other countries is a pure profit. All the things that communities could do, and what they did cheaper, and what brought people together, it was abolished. That's a fact. I'm not talking about Croatia now, or the SDP, or the HDZ, or any party, I'm talking about the fact of a global one. And we're going after the team like geese in the fog because we think it's all out there that's fantastic. It's not fantastic. And no one argues that there are organized local units, and thank God that there are, because it is a foundation, but it is one of the great frauds of many governments that have promised, and especially the Kukuriku coalition that has promised decentralisation and we have never been the centralized state as we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103546	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103547	Thank you very much. A fellow Vukšić, civil protection in this material is solely written in a small letter. This means that it does not exist as an organisational form, only as a notion of civil or civil if we translate from Latin protection. Unless civil protection is at the beginning of the sentence, then it's normally written by C in a capital letter. Second, in this material, and you used the word earthquake, yes, and there is a Croatian word earthquake. There is no word of earthquake at all, we have a Croatian word. So I'm surprised if this is '88 material, '89. where I am the proposer of this law writes on a page that is not even marked by the proposal of the Civil Protection System Act, it says that disasters include earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, etc. There's no need to write an earthquake when we've been using the word for 25 years, and we've used it before, but who knew? Third, when you were talking about civil protection in the system of that former one, you know they were even uniforms of civil protection. There were some dark blue uniforms with some shilt cap and so on. Here's what I remember. They were practicing civil protection. When we were doing some kind of civil protection exercise that would include what was involved in the State Department of Protection and Rescue, so firefighters, police, I don't know who everyone didn't, an ambulance, the Emergency Service. No, that's no longer in the Republic of Croatia. That's why this material is the only thing I'd say is the evaluation of the existing state, and so let's call it the civil protection system and let's wear the E tag, so we'll do it as representatives of what you say as a goose in the fog and it'll go away like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103548	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103549	Dear fellow Grubisic, yes, I read the earthquake, so I probably said, "I mean, it doesn't even make sense, the ground shakes when the earthquake is so it can be an earthquake." You said that civil protection is only written in a big letter when it's at the beginning of a sentence. Well, I'm happy when it's written, yesterday I was talking about the illiteracy of many laws, that it's written at the beginning of a sentence because some laws will be written without writing an initial letter in a capital letter because yesterday we saw all the coins the promoter adopts and writes in laws. Yes, the essence of civil protection, the essence of civil protection is not spoken of in this law. In this law, there is no intensity that we are really talking about a community that will be organised, but not only at the moment of the time of the accident, but which will be organised, which will be ready so what you said about civil protection once having exercises. Yeah, we used to practice, and there was some kind of community thing going on in those exercises as funny as today. There was a barbecue.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103550	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103551	Thank you, Vice President. Your esteemed colleague in your debate has brought up a few things I'd like to mention. First of all, not only you but also in previous discussions, it has been said that the government is guilty and it is incompetent because only after seven days has established a flood headquarters in Slavonia. At the same time after that, you said, in my opinion the same important and good thing, that it is correctly emphasized that the basic action of civil protection is at the base of all of us, primarily citizens. And you mentioned examples of good practice in these activities in Croatia. But as part of that, I would point out exactly the example of good practice. So there were floods in Međimurje County four years ago where we didn't wait seven days for someone to come to us from the government and set up a headquarters, we didn't wait for someone to come and ask us what we should do the second day or the same moment was headquarters, the same moment all the operating bodies and forces were on the ground. The mayor and the mayor knew what to do right away. And I think in that part of it, despite the severe tragedies and the great damage we've been operating on, we've managed to do a lot of things. So let's not wait in that part, maybe it's very popular with us that it's all someone's fault at the top but let's do it in part. I mean, as far as Slavonia is concerned, I would really ask where the mayor was first of all, where were the others at the level that they hadn't done what they had done from day one, and especially now was their obligation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103552	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103553	Dear colleague Škvarić did not hear all of you but what I heard I fully agree with you that at the time of the flood there was a good self-organization. But it has nothing to do with civil protection. Civil protection is something else, civil protection needs to act on a continuous basis. So we need to assume that at some point in time, civil protection is starting to work. Today, civil protection under quotes that are organized does not depend on how good the mayors are, how good the mayors and mayors are, how well they will organise and people are left to themselves to self-organize. And that's visible. Of course, when it's a flood, when there's any other weather disaster that people will defend their own and protect themselves. So what do you need now? It's supposed to be organized, to create assumptions that it's known when there's a time-disaster who, at what time he's working. And it shouldn't even be professional, people will be very happy to do it themselves. But 25 years of interpreting that nothing should be bad, that nothing should be voluntary, that nothing can be done together, that nonsense is just... etc. A little bit left a mark and we became selfish. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We won't be able to put out the fires on the Internet, we won't be able to do dams, we're closing ourselves up, we're infatuated because this society has become inhumane. And they're most effective when phone calls are and when we're really helping people who need them, and it would be much better, it would be much better if we were organized society and that those actions weren't necessary. Because it means that money exists, we just don't know how to organize.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103554	Ante Sanader replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103555	Thank you very much. Here's an esteemed colleague, I agree with your debate, she's constructive and I see that you have good intentions, and I agree and it would not be good to politicize this thing because this is an important thing for the state, an important thing for all the services that are covered by these. But I just have to tell you for a little while because you're probably not familiar with it, there are fantastic operational services in the Republic, that and I know you know and I don't doubt it, but the hard words when you say anything doesn't work, I don't know that you said something like that in terms of nothing, nothing works. We operate perfectly, we had a Croatian fire department that has 60,000 operational firefighters, which has 2,000 voluntary fire companies, which has 60 professional fire departments, 35 units in the economy. We have the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, which is well organized. He had a Croatian red cross that was also at all events. Now you're looking at the grades, some of them are spinning their heads or not spinning, according to the grades of the relevant ones, but that's what you're going to say in your discussions. I say we have excellent organized services. We need just one roof system like this. We didn't have civil protection. So he said the deputy minister since 2004 was founded protection and rescue. And through the system of protection and rescue, what is now regulated through civil protection has been regulated. Our problem is that we don't have a good system when there's a great tragedy of coordination and you only saw it when it came to the deputy, this minister, or vice president in Gunjo, he has the power to decide, and when you put me, you who don't have a direct link with the prime minister, with the money, and you can't make decisions, you can make decisions but no one can hear them. So we need coordination. And that's why we need this system, and that's why we need someone who's going to be in charge and that he has power at that critical moment of decision. And we in this service have excellent and only this law therefore needs to be sharpened to make these moments crucial, when the crucial moments for these services to act in an organized manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103556	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103557	Dear fellow Sanader, when I was talking about civil protection. I just told you about the fire departments. Of course, the Mountain Rescue Service, which is valuable and excellent. I'm telling you about the civil protection I know. I remember in the '60s when there was a flood in Međimurje we didn't see a minister, you know what it meant to get somewhere, or the secretaries as they were then called, the secretariat I don't know. But it was organized, it shouldn't have waited for anyone on Sunday to defend until the head of the Chakovec municipality arrived. It was known exactly when the flood was who was doing what. Today you don't know, you can't wait for the Mountain Rescue Service because it's too small to settle all needs. As it were, the people self-organized when there was a flood. Well, you don't need to self-organize, there's got to be a system where you know who does what. We systematically destroyed everything that could have been common, and only politically speaking about community, the community is not built behind a political speaker and we say now there will be unity. And then what's to be done? Then the president goes away and that community destroys by one stroke of feathers or one visit. We're just strong in words, but we're not very much in deeds, and that's him, it used to work more. I'm talking about that system where the individual's voice, the voice of the individual, was far more important than it is today, in that black darkness because people were making decisions, because they were meeting at the level of the local community and they were deciding something. My place was built all under the agreement of the citizens of that place, everything was built out of gas, water, embankment, we built it all up with our own, and we paid for it ourselves. It's forbidden today. Why? So not to get together, but three citizens, four are a little more, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103558	Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103559	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Vuksic, I believe that what you said in your debate, and I literally wrote down, the community is gone, you didn't really mean the community in the people because the people show everyday unity, he showed even at the time of the flood, the incredible people I organized and showed the community, and that's how it is in every other occasion when there's trouble, or when there's trouble and when anyone asks for help. And we have also witnessed in recent days, if some media performs a story, here in the vicinity of Sisko in Komarev's father and son, not likely exactly the people thanks to the community and that sense of community reacted. But you probably thought about institutional unity and that's something that's the problem. So, we have excellent institutions, excellent organizations that were spoken of in this law, but in case of trouble, we lack coordination and we lack the one who is authorized to decide. That's what it was about. The decision, someone has to make a decision at any time. Decisions are not easy to make. It has proved many times that we are quite lax in making decisions and are reluctant to make institutional decisions. Therefore, this is the case, and this should be defined to the end as it should, since this civil protection fund has been mentioned here, but it is said that it can therefore be established for aid, etc. Which means it's a definition that can mean nothing, it can be and it doesn't have to be. So we should make a deal because this is the law in the first reading, if we're really going to go after a fund to be set up. I personally think it would be a good decision to show that unity again. Of course he's not in politics, he won't be there, it's an illusion. However, the system of command, coordination is something we expect from this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103560	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103561	Dear fellow Kosor, yes, you understood what I was about to say. The community was trying to break, of course there was a need, it was seen during these floods last year, a tragedy, that the people wanted to help others and themselves. However, we tried every form of organized assistance based on society to justify it. That's the problem. Yes, we spoke at the highest level, so anyway, if we know what role the local communities once played, the municipalities they had and who have today that's a big difference. And that at that time when everything was built in my community there were no professionals or there was one professional, I remember he was a parent. Today there are a lot of professionals, another way is to function but a good part of the salary goes right to the clerks. I'm talking about that, about that fundamental, we don't need everything to be, we need to make frameworks and we need to cherish this, this isn't even an institution thing, it's a matter of will to try, to reunite people. We're up, this is one principled thing and I think civil protection, again I'm not talking about fire, rescue services, etc., I'm talking about an organized society that was last organized during the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103562	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourist-Stranka Rada, colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103563	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, my respect. Here I'm going to go first with one commendation, after a long, long time we've experienced that one law does not go into emergency procedure but in regular procedure and it's really for every commendation. And that reads the intention of really, even though the public debate was real and it was made possible for everyone, everyone interested to participate and contribute, it is good to go like this in the process of at least two readings. However, I know this does not affect the very text of the law, but the assessment of the situation lists a large number of floods and damages from water spilling along the Sava, Drava, Mura and Danube, the region of Karlovac County and a large number of floods. I must admit, I was distracted that you hadn't heard of a flood in Sisak-Moslavina County, which you haven't heard of water, rivers Kupu, Clay, Odra, Una. What you didn't hear about the floods in all the suburban, almost all the suburban settlements of Sisak, Petrinja, the Glina was at one point cut off from the world. Croatia's Kostanica, Letavanic, who even sang even though the prime minister said at that time that some would have to deal with it and be decommissioned from these settlements because they were built, past all plans were built too close to the water. A clean reminder of the work, Letovanovic is too long to be in any new plans. When I read this part of the law, this bill, the bill of law of automation, as well as the good part of my predecessors, appeared to think of comparisons with the former civil protection system and what we have today because I'm not so sure that we can call this in the right sense of the word system, this is something that tries to be a system. Do I, if I'm some kind of nostalgic if I say I remember the time when civil protection had her, if I'm right, she had her own base in the military bond register. You today said in the opening statement that, to some extent, the basics are the fire communities, i.e. fire companies and other associations. Well, that's drastically narrowed down. If it wasn't possible, you might conclude that this should be extended, perhaps a list of voters who are often varying, and then it's very difficult to take it as a basis for civil protection. I don't know how else to say it. In the opening part, you said but also said in this material that civil protection must be continued and not a campaign process on the principles of subsidiarity and solidarity and continuity of action. Well, in all these previous discussions, there has been this very amount of doubt about how much more solidarity there is among citizens than in those extreme cases we unfortunately had over the last year, but lately more and more often, we have witnessed it. But when you're looking at that solidarity, I can't help but think that it's a place that some have been very, very perfiduously exploited. If there's a civil protection system or this so far as we've called for rescue, protection and rescue. We had an example of a case that was let's say a national disaster related to a flood in Slavonia. And then what's going on, all three national televisions, all the media, everyone in Croatia is shaving, buying water, sending these people down. Croatia is otherwise known as a country with large water supplies. Was the problem with drinking water trucks and delivering to the population? And what were we doing? We made profits to individuals. People across Croatia bought for the best purposes, bought and raised traffic for privates. Where's the solidarity here? Solidarity to the coma, to the one who has. That's where I think he's absolutely scheduled a civil protection system. Then let's just say that my colleague Sanader mentioned the Red Cross. What happened to the Red Cross I even ran into one text that I can't claim is correct and that the data here is true, but that Red Cross didn't even have his phone number but had a phone number that was registered to a private person. So is that even normal, is that someone controlling it? So the state gave up VAT in that case, gave up everything and what was a little late for every commendation, it was supposed to react far more promptly, but then there was one such failure to collect income from a private person on a tragedy. It turns out that some respond that the tragedy is as high as possible because then the solidarity of citizens throughout Croatia will be expressed and will fill its income. I think it's the same part of the system that civil protection should take care of. We used to have a civil protection system if you remember, and there's a lot of you here looking at it that must remember it, that we've had exercises so let's say the kids were practicing evacuation from the factories, we don't have a factory today, so there's no need. In general, all citizens were one way or another covered by this. Today I don't know that there's this other than the fire community that's for every commendation but at least, my experiences are like that but I have to point out that this fire department, or DVDs that my colleague Sanader mentioned here, are mostly bound to smaller environments and rural environments. And these 2,000, if I'm not mistaken, you mentioned 2,000 DVDs, are mostly DVDs that gather the population and are the basis of some community in these small environments, smaller environments. And I'm afraid that the system in the big cities or in the biggest city of Zagreb, no matter what I admit and respect all of this, sometimes Mr. Pavle Kalinic exaggerated in some of his statements with orders of tanks, chariots and I don't know what didn't get into those discussions, but the system of civil protection is the way it should work, I'm afraid it's not even elaborated. On the other hand, the question of costs, which should be implemented, whether it is educated, who will conduct education, where, when and at the end, the means should be provided, on the basis of real needs, local self-government units should be provided, and based on risk assessment. And then we get in that situation that the biggest risk is with those who are the poorest and they need to secure the funds. And there's no other plan, it's said there's no percentage, there's no limit, but don't count on state aid. Since we know the changes we haven't long entered into the financing of local self-government, this is really one such strange blow, I'm not going to say that this is thought out, that it's made insidious or I don't know what it is, but I just have the impression that in the absence of a better quality solution one solution has been made, it's reached for one solution that could be very dangerous, and that's the responsibility of the local self-government unit, based on an assessment, it has to determine the means and, as a rule, they're always the weakest, most vulnerable. I don't know if this was exactly the goal or if it was quite the reach to let's just say what kind of a solution to suggest something. And since I've just mentioned funding, I have to ask another question that this is really a question because I don't get it. Let's say we have these funding problems, and on the other hand we're witnessing that, I don't know if there's any other country that's open to tourism like we are, that every year we have enormous costs primarily of GSS to rescue any other adventurers who are in Japanese would have gone preferably to the Himalayas but we don't have the Himalayas and go to Velebit. And that's just fine, I mean that's what a man walked around with two other kids so he got stuck there somewhere and that cost is borne anyway by a sub-financed GSS and all the other services that need to be dealt with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103564	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103565	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, I could talk to you here for a long, long time now, but I don't have that kind of time, so I'm just gonna look back on some things. So you said that this is trying, that this law is actually trying to be a system and that's exactly what's not clear enough so it won't become a system. And you were right when you said there was a civil protection system and that those plans were still standing somewhere in the attics of the then office where civil protection worked. Maybe it would be nice to take a little look at it, so maybe take a little experience from the outside and try to tie all of this into the system. But what's most important is what I want to add a little bit more about here and to point out what's going on. You mentioned the Red Cross. And I'm sorry that such a hack threw herself at the Red Cross humanitarian organization. If there are any problems, if there are any gaps, I really don't know if we need to destroy the system now, should we all go after the Red Cross as a humanitarian organization and go destroy it. So let's do a little order or a little bit more order, but we don't need to Satanize it right now because that's not true at all. Individual cases are quite different, and practice shows that there are much better examples, good examples than bad examples. DVDs, that they're gathering people. There are therefore a number of members in DVDs who can no longer put out the fire but are organized and educated and trained. It is a finished system that a fellow Sanader, a ready-made system that can build a complete system of civil protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103566	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103567	Thank you very much. Ma colleague Hrg, I deliberately said the intention is good and the goal is quite justified. But I wasn't, I was pretty careful not to turn out to be the bickering inter-party, common interest, common goal, and last intention would be now I can't suggest just, criticise just because the proposal is of some other political option. That's why I might not have been precise enough. And as for the Red Cross, I didn't say first that someone should be Satanized, that they needed someone. System control needs to be introduced. And we generally lack this system control in all segments of society. But that's why I'm gonna keep things quiet. So remember those 50 million kunas that were waiting. What was waiting for? The disorganization that we agree on within ourselves. It's part of the system. But it's part of the system. But that Red Cross is part of that same system and I don't think it works very well. After all, and the local experience I have with the Red Cross is better off not talking to them, because there really are all kinds of them starting with having paper that they delivered something to someone on the ground. You visit these people they don't know about them, and I believe these Red Cross people are hard to find those houses that they've led to work there and help.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103568	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103569	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my esteemed colleague Novak, you've been talking about civilian protection exercises and memories of those times. Exactly the problem of former civil protection was that we had people on paper and that in cities, municipalities were placed with all kinds of civil protection units that people were putting on, and maybe they didn't even know they were in those units. Or if they even knew, so you say we had some exercises, and then those people might even have come. But when it happened, there was no event. That's why there's a good proposal here, and I think the new law's intensities to rely solely on existing powers and to make these forces the heart of the civil protection system, meaning those that act regularly, the emergency services that need to be complemented only by services that don't exist. I don't know, if there's no radiation-biological protection service, then there's a town or a community of that kind of service. And that this concept of civil protection is based precisely on the existing fast, quality services, to be the bearers of civil protection, and to be filled only with what is most needed of what is not. It is a guarantee that this law will succeed, that this system will succeed. And I'd like to rephrase this to you briefly about tourism. It is true what you said and absolutely works and illogically, because some tourist walks with Japanese women upstairs and then this Mountain Service, resources, money is spent, fire or mountain rescue services. But we're a tourist country and it wouldn't be a good idea to get out of here, you know, if you dare come here. So the adventurers come and they pay. We welcome every tourist. If he even makes some reckless move is not a reason, we must organize, we must have quality service. But we need to find a way to fund the Mountain Rescue Service quality, that these people have safe means, and that's part of their job. And let's not send messages from here, you tourists, don't come by any chance who are adventurers and you'll go upstairs and do something. Let them come, and we'll save them, and we'll find ways to charge for something.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103570	Thank you. Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103571	Well, I'll take the order that you've set out to do. There were people on paper, but you're doing exercises, they're not being carried out by those on paper. They were being carried out by someone, so something was going on. I'm not saying that it was ideal, that it was the best, but I just remind myself of this kind of experience, and after all, the other day there was a question on one of the TVs about what you're going to do in case of an earthquake, they asked random citizens. You know what the most common answer was? I don't know. But that's, see the inevitable that we have what we have. Now let's get something going, so I don't know how to educate citizens, something to do. They have experts, after all, and I think of you as one of those, who need to do something to change the situation. When you mentioned adventurers. I didn't say I should know them now. I don't know a big sign on the entrance to Croatia. Not that, but the fact is maybe that's where the prevention system should work. If someone sees, after all, there are these paths that lead up so that I don't know how to warn people, look, you can't just go to Velebit like that. Just like you can't even enter a church dressed so inappropriately, you can't even go up there because you're going to have some consequences for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103572	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103573	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, colleague Novak, you encouraged me to argue when you were talking about drinking water, and you mentioned an organization through the Protection and Rescue Act. And you are a participant of the Homeland War and you know very well that the Croatian state at the time, for example, wartime, organized and accepted hundreds of thousands of refugees, organized schools, reception centres for people, animals, hospitals, health care, and it worked almost impeccably. There have been floods in Eastern Slavonia, and it has actually been seen to work or not to operate the disorganized state that you were talking about. So you mentioned drinking water, for a reason, but remember how solid they were citizens and were actually bringing from their surplus actually brought or cut off from their home budget groceries in front of the Arena Center in Zagreb, they put it on the stairs where, of course, for a day or two no one could take over and, of course, those foods failed. That's what we're talking about. So let’s say that today’s law or the bill’s proposal for this law is good that in the first reading, what we are going to propose during this time can be combined in this law. It is also good to say that the Ombudsman has also been involved here in the debate on this law, and she said that it is particularly important to take care of local and regional and regional self-government units whose budget cannot cover the necessary needs of the civil protection system in order to meet its purpose, which is to protect and save vulnerable people, material, cultural goods and the environment. It is known that not all areas in Croatia are equally economically and economically developed, so we have areas of special state care that need to be further cared for but have not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103574	Time. Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103575	Thank you very much. Well, you started off with drinking water, and the fact is that you realized that from that example that was these floods in Eastern Slavonia that you saw the disorganization of the state. But remember yesterday's debate, the agricultural law debate. How well this works for the state, how well it's put together, two years has been given to the Minister to bring in a regulation that will allow food to be donated for two years! Well, that's the elemental thing, I don't want to solve the problem, not that we, I don't know what, leave it for some better future time. Or at the end of the day, maybe it leaves you with the way things are. But the drinking water problem that was happening then, remember what it looked like. We've had constant calls in that area missing diapers, people buying diapers, sending down. There's no drinking water, buy drinking water and send it down. And the Croatian state, I don't know if it produces or doesn't produce diapers, but there is a safe supply of drinking water, there must be trucks for delivery in those areas, and at that point, fire trucks that can be used for that purpose certainly have. But why is that missing? I don't know, maybe it was someone's interest, maybe.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103576	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103577	Thank you very much. Col. Novak, you have cited examples of tourists going astray and inappropriately dressed and dressed and unprepared going to St. Vision on Brač, 700 meters high, then on St. Juru na Biokov is even climbing the holy hill on Velebit, etc., everywhere they walk and you said that the problem charged by the State Office for Protection and Rescue and the Mountain Rescue Service of Croatia. But I wouldn't represent this problem that materially, so at the time of the Brod Hospital war, we treated 8.5,000 wounded, of which 3,000 are nationals of other states. There were many of them from BiH, and even from Serbia, prisoners were lying with us from Leskovec. The account has never been laid out by Serbia or Bosnia or anyone, but it's all settled. But what you said about the rivers. So I wouldn't even define these 4, 5 rivers but here's a look there's no Neretva and it was in Metkovic's flood, there's no Orljava in the Pleternica was a flood at the same time as elsewhere. So you might leave out the names of the rivers so that they are. And in the end, the Red Cross as sugar is who took the number of providers, so I got the information, it's the provider who gave them the number, right? We know that the numbers that start with 6 are the numbers that if you turn it around, you'll get a paper bill, right? It is indeed a shame that the teleoperators, if in this debate we therefore express a really good will towards the Red Cross and indeed, no one has criticized the Red Cross, if he can't, or the teleoperators, and there are as many in Croatia as five, six, I can't find that the Red Cross has a permanent number in the event of a flood, which is only activated in the event of any elemental accident, then it's unfortunate. But he has to rent the number from the provider. That's a shame. And I don't think it's the Red Cross responsibility for that money, but it's the responsibility of not having his own number as he has in Serbia, in Slovenia or anywhere else. The red cross has its number, and the teleopers should make sure it's free.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103578	Time. A young Novak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103579	Thank you very much. When I talked about those tourists, I didn't allude to the fact that they needed to be charged, but that there was some kind of prevention to be done, is the cost that comes out of it at least quite great to me as a layman. I don't know, I think three days of a helicopter if it's flying up there, it's definitely costing some kind of a cost. Those people who are there, I was just thinking about it in a preemptive sense. Can it be prevented or at least reduced to a small measure? As far as the river is concerned, since some of them are listed as a local patriot, I have every right to get those out of my midst. And I don't think anyone can deny the case, say, if the City of Clay was cut off from the world for three days, not to mention it. And on the other hand, we're talking about the carlovack County that I'm not reducing their problems or I don't know any others. The fact is, if it is already, I agree with you, if we're already talking about this problem, you didn't have to mention anyone at all, then everyone would be involved in that story. The permanent number of the Red Cross, it's not a teleoperator problem, it's the Red Cross, it's their obligation. But the distribution of money isn't, it has nothing to do with that number. It's a fail-safe system again, and I'm not just blaming the Red Cross, I'm not blaming anyone, but I need to point out that, now I don't need to look for the guilty and hang Pedro. But we should, this is good or frankly, this is a bad experience that we need to learn from. And it's a shame that 50, 60 million kunas happen in the end it's a good material for which some insinuations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103580	Thank you. Cresimir Bubalo Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103581	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, you said there were no civilian protection exercises, so in some areas there are, depending on how responsible the environment is or isn't. But what is much more important is whether some environments have made risk assessments and have not. But what is evident is that the units of local and regional administration cut the budget this year by 2 billion kuna by changing income tax. But the most important thing in the law would be to write who does what and who pays what plans in the units of local administration and responsibility if someone does not execute them, but we all witnessed the flood in Slavonia, we remember well the statement and the prime minister that someone will have to bear responsibility for Slavonia and Baranja, but that has not happened until today. It seems that no one was responsible for it, it seems that nothing happened in Slavonia and Baranja, and even when we see that 50% of the people did not return to their homes, then we wonder if this general state is functioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103582	A young Novak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103583	My colleague, you've actually made a little bit of a fuss, but with all that you've said, I said in my debate. Okay, you had to, you had to concentrate on a shorter time, but budget cuts, that's what I was saying. It's not long we've come up with such regulations that have reduced the budgets of the local self-government unit and now we're practically imposing some new obligations on them. You said well, I think that in response to the replica, I have also mentioned, control of systems and responsibilities, and at the end of the day and the functioning of the state is clearly through this, ma and the local self-government unit if there is no responsibility, if no one for anything, the best ones are those laws in which it is bound but there are no criminal provisions. And who do you think's gonna do it? So why would you, because you might if something, you practically don't have to. It's like an advisory referendum, but it's not binding on anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103584	Nikola Vuljanic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103585	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Novak, you were talking about civil protection in the context of solidarity, I think you missed the whole balloon. In fact, solidarity is not, solidarity is in complete dissatisfaction with the fundamental principles of society in which we live. This society is Darwinist and the existence of Maserati in Split is directly linked to 50 people in containers. That relationship isn't circumstantial, it's perfectly direct. The principle of humanity is individualized and existing. The people are ready, we're all citizens, we're ready to help individually. There is no framework, civil protection should be one of those frameworks where this willingness to be human, to help whoever needs help, who's in trouble is institutionalized. But there are no specifics in this law. Why? Well, because in the end, it says there's no cost to the state, and if there's no cost, there's no move, there's nothing. Responsibilities are transferred to a local self-government that already has money and now it doesn't have it is clear to every living one. Therefore, nothing will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103586	A young Novak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103587	My colleague Vuljanić, on that first part, I have nothing to say. You said that I missed the whole balloon if I wasn't wrong, but I didn't miss the whole balloon, but the point of the story is that we're talking about this law that's supposed to secure one part of the state's functioning. Unfortunately, no law can solve that unless people do. The law can be ideal in anything if people don't implement it and now if there are no criminal provisions for non-implementation, then normally there's no effect. But as for this part of you that you mentioned about solidarity, unfortunately, it shows how modernized society is with us, people reach out to those easier solutions. He's not the problem, call number 060 that, that, that and you donated six kunas and something, the state is giving up VAT in this case. And on the other hand, you've got 30 kilometers away from you or 20 kilometers away from you, and there's no people who have already fallen off their feet from fatigue, but where to go, which is where it is, look, it's already something that, I don't say, dirty, this is cleaner to me like this. And that's what washes people's consciences. I mean no matter how much you should be here right now, not to say politely talk to that part and get to people, it's good that you're human, it's good, but the other part is missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103588	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103589	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Novak, you were talking about fire communities and how it works in smaller places where we have voluntary fire companies, how in larger cities, we have public fire departments and how it's funded. I don't know if you know that the state in its budget assigns 80,000 kuna per fire department per year to some as many as 157,000 kuna per year. I wonder what it would be like for a teacher in one place to have twice as much pay as a teacher in another place. And therefore, since everything else falls on the local self-government unit, there are cities and municipalities that have public fire departments and don't have to single out lipes and there are those who have to make their firefighters have minimum wages and equipment to single out, for example. The city of water that has only 16 professional firefighters, we know that it is a minimum, 4x4 has to stand out over a million kunas in order for the public fire department to function normally that we have to commit to the assessment of fire protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103590	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103591	I didn't know about this information, and I thank you for informing me. But you have now mentioned the city of Vodice, and in general the cities and municipalities that God has given, so they have the opportunity to make money at sea through tourism and look at the comparison of the budget of cities and municipalities in the Adriatic and cities and municipalities, you want to go to Slavonia, you want to go to Banovina, you want to go to Moslavina, you will, wherever you want inland. And now what you said about parity, what do you think if teachers got different salaries? What do I think? I mean what I think in general about this system that's wrong. And unfortunately, the real, moral, human values are simply pushed into another plan. Now it's become the only value of how much money you have, the kind of political option you have for the best man. That's the sad part. And then talk about solidarity and humanity hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103592	Stjepan Mlinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103593	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Novak, I have no intention of criticizing, of course, everything is welcome, and if the profession says that the policy at national level needs to strengthen these powers of intervention and in some way equip and, well, here you go, welcome but at a local level where I have the best view of the terrain, here's what I have to say. And in that sense, the inevitable firefighters you were talking about and we're proud, I'm coming, thank God from one of the most fire-fighting counties in Nice Ours and in my community I have a fire that's very high-level. And each unit of local self-government according to its capabilities, of course, is funding, equipment and has been made express efforts. And it's shown in these last floods how much power it is, how much it is, and there's no words, no objections. But only when we're talking about those finances, now we have to say the same little bit about those finances that my colleague Juričev-Martinchev used to say. Now, according to this change in income tax base, those funds around 60% are downgraded by public fire departments. You know if we're gonna talk about the funds. Now, here he says, now we'd start these, as units let's say at local level. So who? So it's going to be these people again, they're the same people who overlap, who know the job, who are educated, who are ready for education. Every day, they learn every year, it's amazing how young they gather, train them, their psychophysical powers, solidarity, everything develops. So where to, what to? For what? No need? This is how it turns out to be now, you see, we're going to give you a good recipe now, that because we have a good recipe, and you just fine-sure the funds, put it all together, secure the funds, the money, and then let it work. Don't help us and don't spoil what isn't, don't fix what's not broken. Here's my thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103594	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103595	Thank you very much. You said you wouldn't criticise it. It's not your intention. Anyway, I'm glad someone's criticizing, pointing to, I don't know, maybe my ignorance or uninformedness to guide me into some things. And you and I have mentioned funding, the new obligations of the local self-government unit, and on the other hand, there is no long-term suspension of financial resources, or drastic reduction. It's not an extermination. It's a drastic reduction. And now you're saying don't help me. We need to be aware that the system, I trust the experts, here's what I think is one of the people who's certainly more focused on this problem than I do, but when he says, there's an expert on this side too, so it doesn't turn out to be something cheerleading, but when people say that the system is not as good as it is right now, that it needs to be done, that it needs to be done, okay, I welcome it then that the ministry has given it its best efforts. And finally, I said right at the beginning that the very fact that it goes into two readings is already a positive shift in relation to the practice so far and obviously needs to look for a better solution, you need to find a way to make the system, ideally no, but to work as well as possible. I'm afraid this is a good intention but there's still some visitation in the air. You have an obligation, you need a risk assessment to make, you need to organize and determine the means to do so. How am I supposed to figure out how much I'm going to separate when I don't have one? It's the biggest problem, how do I plan to separate funds that aren't available, and the risk assessment tells me something's gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103596	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103597	Thank you. Dear colleague, I would refer to your allegations or remarks about how certain obligations from this system are now being transferred to local self-government units. Well, that seems like a very logical solution to me. Well, of course, no one from Zagreb will come to a smaller place, and when it happens, some of the people who are there on the ground, who must be able to react there and have the best knowledge to work things out. The second thing is of course that certain units of local self-government may not be able to clean their rooms, let alone what else. There might be some system of subsidiarity that we lack but it's already another story about local self-government, like in Germany where the local self-government unit can't do anything... says we can't do it and shifts it further. It could be one of the solutions, and the problem of funding again... another pair of sleeves. But I'm saying the problem is the unit of local self-government that some don't really make sense of existence, regardless of the funding that is simply too small and can't do the simplest tasks, let alone these complex ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103598	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103599	Buddy, I think it's a little inappropriate to connect the cleaning of rooms and the inability of someone to arrange the cleaning of rooms with this problem that we have here. We have a situation here that the local self-government unit is imposing some additional obligations, and at the same time we've cut her funding. Not at the same time, a few months earlier. That's what I'm pointing out not only but everyone who's been involved in the debate so far, everyone points to this particular problem. It's no problem to determine if we all think it's something good, but now that one and that one should be determined. It should be determined who has to do it, who's the responsible person, but absurd is if I give you the assignment now run 100 meters faster than Ben Johnson. How, when I know it's impossible. And so this, look, they gave local self-government units some assignments and every day not only with this law, but every day something new is happening, some commitment is being made, and at the same time the funds are getting smaller. The example you cited in Germany, so you know what would happen? This is where 551 units of local self-government would all say we can't do it, let's do it you. It's just impossible. And finally, what you said finally, some units of local self-government really don't make sense of existence. Let me ask you, aren't you from the Kukuriku Coalition? You've been in power for three years? What did you do about it? So what do you think the local self-government unit is going to end itself? Three years and you're a little more in power, you've had a chance, after all, if you need to be reminded of Plan 21, of the government's programme from the beginning. You just won the election, one of the items. What have you done in these three and something more years? Did you, as an individual within your party, raise that question?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103600	Thank you very much. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103601	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, here's a nice meeting with you again, especially on the subject of the Civil Protection System Act, which is actually not really a system law, it's some attempt to introduce one system into this system of protection and rescue and determining certain competences that belong to a particular segment of the so-called. Civil protection which, again, is written in a small letter rather than large because it is not an institutionalized name with a capital letter such as other institutions and institutions that are in the civil protection system. At first, as I noticed in the replica, you must have a direct translation of the English language, the earthquake, the earthquake, and clearly it was an earthquake and there would be no confusion in writing and a Croatian earthquake instead of an earthquake. Or it was thought that when it comes to volcanic eruptions, it then refers to an earthquake in our environment, not just in Croatia. In Croatia when we write then we can say earthquake, which is probably why it is an extended term and translation from English. The system of civil protection with a set, the civil protection system was also discussed by several MPs. A colleague Vuksic remembers those exercises, and then atomic shelters that were necessarily built in settlements at the time. And now we don't even know what we're going to do with them, but now there are some people who use a little needle and syringe, etc. serve for, often as garbage waste etc. It does happen in some cities and in some of our environments. Of 127 municipalities and cities in Slavonia 117 belong to the first and second categories of undeveloped by index, according to the development index published by the Ministry of Regional Development, so 117 municipalities in Slavonia and Baranja since 127. Of those ten who are not underdeveloped, there's only one municipality, and that's Chepin. So there are other cities in Slavonia of the nine others. But there are also cities that belong to the so-called. Undeveloped parts of Croatia by degree or by index of development or underdevelopment in fact. So, a public fire unit in Brod-Posavina County has two units. One's in the boat, the other's in Gradišca. It is a county that has 30,000 inhabitants of Brod-Posaviska from Krapina-Zagorska County. Let's have whoever's from that county say how many public-fire units they're funding, so they're financed from the state budget, first of all, there's public-fire units in Krapina-Zagorska County. It's not one. There's six of them. So, a county smaller than Brod-Posavina has three times as many public-fire units. I know which, I can also list to you which are from Krapina, Zabok, Oroslavlja, Klanjca and I don't know either. They're public, not DVDs, but public-fire units, that's the difference. Although in this continental part of the Republic of Croatia the fire department has a long, long, and to say a rich tradition I think here in this material, so the weight, the big weight, the main weight right on the fire departments because of it. Or look, when it comes to any elemental accident or any other one that intervenes, it's a fire unit. Make sure there's a car accident. Who's pulling out of a crashed car and who's taking that weed machine into their hands? Fire department. If it's a flood and a water pump from the basement, etc. Who's working? Fire department. Who's putting out the fire? Fire department. Don't give God an earthquake and an accident in the event of an inoculation or anything, who's doing it? Fire department. We had the State Office for Rescue, Protection and Rescue before the flood. And of course there was already a flood in Cvelferija, first of all, but you must know that the floods were in other parts of Croatia, as counterpart Novak said. Two years ago Metkovic was flooded, so here is Mr Lucic. Twice this year, the Eagles were blue in the Pleternica and surrounding villages. No one mentions the Orly. I won't be exclusive or a local patriot to mention every village that's been flooded and these four, five rivers that are. But the possibility that even an ordinary wrinkler can do as much damage as any big river in certain areas. So when I came to Raj's village to take humanitarian aid guided by humanity and solidarity, then they told me that domestic people and firefighters, domestic, voluntary fire company, members of Croatian water experts about whether to break under a bridge in Raj's village one pass to get the water that came by shooting the embankment. Apparently by shooting, and who knows what happened. Yeah, he snapped, but the way he snapped, that's another question. This is what my colleague Bubalo wanted to mention that there are no responsible in Croatian waters or anything. So, to break one under the road one canal that would lead to the forest, the Spachvan forest that water. Croatian waters also did not allow for farmers to enter the waterway alone at night under one bridge on the road towards Gunja and the water started to flow towards the Spačvan forest and thus the waterway of Sava in Gunja, which is the whole of it, began to shrink. So it went better. So, that one ha will not say intricacy, one disorganization that commands, who is responsible, why is responsible, how will there be many questions. How they will be educated, so people in the civil protection system, who pays for it, when and where it will be and where that education will be conducted. That's one thing. Finally, who is responsible for education and who will provide funds for education in this situation when we have here, let us take Slavonia and Baranja, Srijem for example when 117 municipalities are in that group of undeveloped municipalities of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, who will conduct and do a risk assessment for each municipality? Will he hire an agency or someone professional to pay for his program to make a risk assessment for that municipality? So who's going to make plans about it, who's going to pay them? These are the questions we should settle here today. Okay, we've got another reading. But I must say that when we talk about the principles of civil protection in Article 6 it reads "in the principle of subsidiarity of decision and civil protection measures are primarily made and implemented by engaging all available own capacities of local and regional (regional) self-government that is affected by a great accident and disaster". So, first units of local self-government and regional self-government, then the rest. Which, in the situation as it is today in the Republic of Croatia, above all economically and financially, is very difficult to achieve. Or we're in a feudal age, so we split into 550 feuds, 550 municipalities and cities, and every feud and feudal figure leads its own policy, assessment, writes its plans on a civil protection system, risk assessment, etc. Furthermore, in Article 7 of this same law, so when we talk about measures and activities in the civil protection system to say so, the following participants, measures and activities are carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and then the central authorities of the state administration and immediately thereafter says "units of local and regional self-government". And what's more interesting, after that it says "the operational forces of the civil protection system". What are the operational forces of the civil protection system? Can the forces of the civil protection system be defined? So, who's that? Two points and say that one, that one, and that one. These are the forces of the civil protection system. So please, here's for another reading to count the forces of the civil protection system. Here in this material we have no mention of any environmental disasters that are of particular importance to human health and that may occur in the Republic of Croatia given some factors. Let's just remember, far is India and Bhopal, let's remember when 35 thousand people died from the leak from the CARBID factory in Bhopal, India, 35 thousand people died in one night when at night around 22, 23,00 hours began to drain the toxic gas from that factory. Do we have a chemical industry that could cause a similar disaster? Or do we already have it today? I'm talking about DINA petrochemicals in Krk, I'm talking about a refinery in a Bosnian ship, and I'm talking about a series of others, we have a number of other chemical factories to shorten that can cause such a disaster. Do they come in, therefore, with plans in the event of possible excesses? So we have NE Krško, 15, 20 km of the airport line from Zagreb has 30 km. Sava is always warmer in Zagreb because of the release from the hot water reactor than in Slavonski Brod. When Sava's headed for the boat. So in Zagreb she is therefore in the water of the Sava River she is warmer by several degrees than in Slavonski Brod. It's precisely the Krško nuclear power plant. That's what we all keep quiet about, and that's what we all know. So, and these possible ecological disasters should be taken into consideration when drawing up the plan so that Mr. Pavle Kalinic, whom we have mentioned many times today, who writes to us all one real Don Quijote I would say to us this kind of civil protection that informs us and constantly encourages us to do this law which the ministry did not say not to use but because of the flood in Cvelferia so in Slavonia, since he bears the label E those two elements were one trigger that would contribute to the writing of such a law. Is this Civil Protection System Act an institutionalization of community? Well, I think that the Croatian people have shown a lot of times so far, starting with the Homeland War, and then here are these last year's floods in Cvelferia and all the other hardships of one individual but also community, one humanity, one solidarity. To shape it and claim that there will be institutionalization that I think is so pretentious that this law could achieve it. It is much more important if this law would achieve this to determine me to say hierarchy and subordination. So, organization, coordination, command. We were in Slavonski Brod again, stating that my city is the largest war hospital in the Republic of Croatia. We've received 8.5 thousand wounded within eight months, in '91. A year. From March 8, when the bombing of the ship began until the fall of the Bosnian ship even on October 18th, there were no 8 months, 8.5 thousand wounded. If we didn't have a boss who was then let's say at the height and abilities and organizations and knowledge I believe that the number of those who came to the Ship's Hospital as wounded, so the number of dead and wounded and those who actually stayed would be far greater. This is how it was, and here it is, and I'm talking. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] Okay, there's a replica, so I'll answer it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103602	Maria Ilic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103603	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd say a respected colleague, Besic, is usually difficult to replicate, but I have to tell you because you've caught on one topic I think is banal in this case, and that's your name and interpretation of earthquakes and earthquakes. In fact, loud and clear, and we've learned this before in elementary schools that the earthquake is the release of kinetic energy in celestial bodies. Since this is an earthquake on the globe, on Earth, on planet Earth and as far as I know in Croatia we haven't changed that term, then I think it's an earthquake. We have a variety of earthquakes, as well as a concussion, but I'm not going into diagnosis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103604	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103605	Yeah, yeah, I'll answer it now. So, by you Earth is not a heavenly body? I don't know what you're talking about. So Earth is a heavenly body. ... Yeah, but you said that's why it's called an earthquake, and then what's it like in the sun, a sunquake? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And how's Mars, the Mars earthquake? Well, it has nothing to do with the name of planet Earth, absolutely. The word "quake" was in Croatian for exactly what you said, and I'm not even going to repeat that word. And there's no need, I guess that's what the 85th word earthquake was written, so it couldn't be replaced, or the English translation was used as I said in my presentation. So ask the linguists a little, ask those at the Croatian Language Institute, and you will see what your earthquake is called. If you'd gone to another neighboring country or two of them, then three would have seen an earthquake say there, but we use an earthquake. And as for the concussion, so there's a lapus, a lapus cerebra, so the brain error, and there's also, there's no such thing as that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103606	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103607	Now we've solved the issue of earthquakes and earthquakes. My colleague Grubisic, you said that there was a system for the civil protection system before, and that in principle today there are problems with shelters that are known to stand in what work. And that from your debate I could understand that it could actually be said that in Croatia we are not able to organise such a system right now. A few years ago, I went to a friendly city in Italy with the commander of the public fire department and the commander of the fire department of my town of Križevci for a civil protection exercise. The Italians are known to have an excellently developed civil protection system. And when we looked at that exercise, then he commented like this, says boss, we can solve everything except helicopters, we don't have a helicopter, we've got everything else in a couple of days, we organize it, and that's how we do the exercise. But the law doesn't allow it, there's a problem. So what's wrong with this law in the bill of this law is that there's obviously no real analysis of the state and possibilities of all the existing systems and entities that we've had. To do this so thoroughly I am convinced that the law could give what you said, that command system and everything else. But you also mentioned the central ones, in fact, you mentioned the state administration for protection and rescue. This is where the Central Authority of the Civil Protection Authority is mentioned. Which is the central body, I don't know, is you've managed to figure it out, is maybe we'll end up in a bureaucratic machine, civil protection ends up in the bureaucratic device of the National Protection and Rescue Authority that the boss will do so and we'll increase red tape and reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103608	Thank you. Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103609	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrg, you've noticed well from my debate that we're actually talking about civil protection and some kind of center, and I don't know who the center is, what is the center of the civil protection service? And I've also listed what you haven't said yet in the replica, so it says the operational forces of the civil protection system, so what are the operational forces of the civil protection system if you're a civil protection system in a small letter and if that civil protection isn't institutionally nationalised as it says, so it's not an institution, so it's not like it used to be a CZTO, so it's known what it is. Now it's gone and we're writing civil protection with a little letter that's kind of a concept of civil protection that we're trying to clarify with this law and everything else. And as for atomic shelters, here's even a rock group seemed to have a very popular name for me at the time of the atomic shelter. It would be good to list these atomic shelters, so they were called, which exist in the Republic of Croatia, and if we're already introducing a civil protection system to see what with these shelters that were meant for us not to let God know for what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103610	Marian Skvaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103611	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, that you have shown yourself in the end that you have had a great deal of discussion about this law, so it is very difficult to give in this work some more concrete things to your presentation. But yet you were in one thing concrete, which is if I followed well, you said about the public fire departments as many as there are, which are their actions, that in Krapina-Zagorska there are 6. According to the records, I think there are three of them. I saw it on the Internet. And what I certainly know is that in Varazdin County, which has 180 thousand inhabitants, there is one fire unit, in Međimurje County, which has 120 thousand inhabitants, there is one fire unit. In all, there are 65 of them in Croatia and 2331 of them are firefighters. And it seems to me that through this public fire department, we wanted to do more to make them not professional units than more social institutions to take care of at least 16 employees minimally and then the question, we go back to it and who pays all together, what is efficiency and how it is. If northern Croatia has nearly 300 thousand inhabitants of three to four public fire departments, Istria has them practically every city, Dalmatia also. Then we can say that we really spend resources on things that we don't need at some point in time in terms of being efficient but the operationality that we have in the north of Croatia that without public fire departments with good and quality, efficient, voluntary fire companies can achieve much more than paying someone. I think we should take good care of the efficiency of the means and then the resources for civil protection and the smaller municipalities and cities that are now said to be unable to finance such an activity would be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103612	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103613	I didn't speak to my colleague by heart when I said about Krapina-Zagorje County 3 years ago, which I had, which I received from a public-fired, public-fired unit representative in Slavonski Brod when there was no public-firehouse on our county in Gradišca but only in Brod. Later on, I'm just an example of yours, whether it's yours or I don't know whose, uh, Krapina-Zagorian County that had a public fire department of Krapina, so Zabok, so Oroslavlje, so I don't know who else, come on, I think it was about 6 public-firers. I don't know, but I know that by looking at your policy towards public-fired units that are good, let people, let 16 people so let them have, let them get busy, we also insisted on a unit in New Town, so in our county. And about some differences in funding, so let's look at it, and you and I noticed, for example, the Zadar Public Fire Department, etc. So also that you from Krapina-Zagorska and Varazdinska and we from Brodo-Posaviska are going to help in the summer months to help out, and that's good and that's solidarity. And it's a kind of community in Croatia. And let them help each other. Let's all help each other together.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103614	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103615	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, you've talked a lot about fire and I think he deserves it and you said that in this continental northwest part of Beautiful, ours has a long tradition, which is true. It is the way of life, it is the bearer of life in those parts, and it really needs to be appreciated and impressed with how much these people will and bring together young people and educate them and it is something immeasurable, immeasurable contribution to the local environment and should be treated with respect. And, of course, in the part where they showed in practice their operationality and that they were also in floods or fires in all circumstances, they simply found themselves. But somehow they get the impression that they were neglected here in the making of this law. And even here's an example and they're doing it on one of their team of fire commanders, they even said that a colleague who was appointed to the task force on the left, the high fire chief wasn't invited to make it, I don't think that's one piece of information that can't possibly be done, that kind of thing can't happen. But we don't have to talk about our environment here much right now. In many neighbouring countries, however, firefighters are the main operational force in civil protection affairs. They're the main operational force. And now, there's all sorts of ideas that would be most meaningful to equip and educate them, they're ready for it. They are ready, they are very ready for it and they can take it with quality and responsibility and continue to work. And that's why since they're being said and we're aware that this is the first reading I'm holding that for the second reading we should certainly respect the opinion of the firefighters because they really have something to say in that part and they said and showed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103616	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103617	Thank you very much. We agree with our colleague that the fire department is a good foundation and a good basis for development and for the basis of the civil protection system. I have cited only some examples starting with floods, fires, car accidents, and to those bizarre ones when a cat is taken off some high roof and no one can do it except the firemen. Namely, in our villages and of course you belong to the continental part of Croatia, fire and football clubs are the cornerstone of social life in the village today, it is known. Here you are, and I invite you to come to Jaruge, on August 23rd after the holiday of the sea, for 60 years of fire, DVD Jaruga. Thank you very much. ... Yes, yes, the Djakovci are playing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103618	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103619	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Grubisic is nice when you speak so nicely of firefighters, I will put you as an honorary member of the firemen and you, but well and many... We'll find a helmet for you, and everyone else normal who talks nice about the firemen here, but here's what would be nice just so there's no misunderstandings. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Public fire departments in Krapina-Zagorje County do not have them 6, it is a county unit built and has facilities in several places. And then it's treated like now, they're not on their own, so they have outposts per couple of places and that's one unit, but it's county level. And that's why, let me get this straight. Secondly, public fire departments, the bad word is said here by someone I don't know, like social institutions. These are not any social institutions, the public fire departments are professional, trained and certainly fit their tasks and every kuna invested there is justified. However, there is no justification for anything else, what we have been talking about for 10 years and more,... We're practically fighting for the decentralisation of the system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's not good that I don't know a big city, here's an example of Zagreb, there are 350 firefighters who are paid by the state, the city that is the richest in Croatia. At the same time, some small town or some island, Hvar Island, the island I don't know of Krk, doesn't have any professional firefighters, or there isn't one firefighter the state pays for. If there's anyone paying him local self-government. And that's what you wanted to say here, and it probably means something that we've been trying to decentralize the system for 15 years in such a way that according to the criteria of the number of inhabitants of the area, the resources for each city, the municipality, or the area, are determined to have these resources. Because we have a city with 45,000 residents who have 10 firefighters who pay the city, and the state doesn't give a single kuna. So these are the illogicalities in the system that we have to do. And what you've been saying about aid is certainly we're proud that the fire department today works in a way that, at the call of the commander-in-chief, units can be transferred from both continents and coastal areas anywhere to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That's the power and unity of that fire system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103620	Thank you very much. Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103621	Thank you very much. Comrade Sanader, of course you and I are proud that firefighters thus express their solidarity and mutual concern for the situations that may follow, which they should and may resolve. And about someone mentioning here, I think my colleague Skuric mentioned that there's every town to have a unit so that the state will pay by 16 is minimum, then the state pays for it. It's really a bit of a social intention, but it's a little bit like how you've rated yourself a bit of a corrupt intent.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103622	Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103623	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, in part of your debate, you mentioned a few things, I don't know if you haven't read it or if you haven't seen that there are no operational civil protection forces listed here. It's clearly defined, but it's not defined and where it's from. So it's the right and ability of a local self-government unit to determine the operational force itself. What you would say from your own experience, given that I was the head of security and rescue headquarters, that the local self-government unit is interested in the efficiency and operationality of civil protection. Civil protection has changed its main responsibility throughout history. This law needs to be passed by civil protection, but civil protection to function. What I've seen from my experience is that before we've determined the exact number according to the threat assessments, it's also the duty of the unit of local self-government to do, that this unit must be functional. It'll be functional if we have educated quality people who were in the system. Of our 80 operational firefighters, everyone in operations has no need. Of those according to our place of residence, we have placed three persons as an operational force of civil protection. The issue and accommodation of civil protection equipment is further raised. Since local self-government units are directly linked to firefighters, it is the easiest to put on fire. The unit of local self-government is intended to have the best and most effective way, so I say this law should be welcomed because civil protection has its own partial work, especially that in all assessments and according to NATO's standards civil protection in all disasters is an irreplaceable factor. We have the most organized and best part of the fire department. And why is what we already have no use for further?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103624	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103625	Thank you very much. Comrade Mandić, you are well and I am in my debate, and you have only further strengthened the impression that fire is the foundation, I have said the foundation and the foundation can freely say civil protection. You were talking about the storage of civilian protection equipment and you said it was best to have it at any DVD, either with a public fire department, which is fine by me. You were still talking about education. I also mentioned in my discussion education, but I asked where, when, who educates and who pays for education. That's what we'd like to know, so specifically, and of course we'd really like to know then and the names, so let's say that the mayor of the community is, say, chief of staff, then we know who he is, and we know at which point is who That's right. [[Intruder: It's all known according to the estimates.]] So, to make this concrete, and in law, it might be good, so I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103626	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103627	Thank you very much. Namely, a colleague, Grubisic, explained the views of the HDSSB club well, but the question remains who pays, who pays for the damages, who pays for the disasters, and especially in the law there is no visible responsibility. Since 19 February 2015, we also see the response of the Ombudsman, the state of human rights and the context of the flood disaster in Vukovar-Srijem County and the opinion of the Government on 11 pages. And then you can see from that belief that after the flood in Slavonia, people in Slavonia paid for it, but they didn't come home. So when we look at houses, when we look at agricultural areas, when we look at the stock fund, then we see these scales of disasters are really huge and we see that no one was responsible for them. And even the other night when we were in Gunya talking to people and talking about human fates, we see that little has been done, it's half done, somewhere else is expected. But what HDSSB's club is definitely looking for, and that's responsibility. The prime minister said he would call those responsible, but until today, there is no responsibility and it turns out that the prime minister forgot that after the damage he must be responsible, and I wonder who will be responsible if the same thing happens again in Slavonia and Baranja. Therefore, responsibility is important but also the return of people to their homes, their homes, people who have suffered most in these years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103628	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103629	My colleague Bubalo, therefore, is not just about Prime Minister Milanovic saying he is consistent, and what we very rarely can argue, so that his consistency begins here and we can begin with this to determine responsibility for the floods. The rash that broke is owned by Croatian waters. Therefore, it should have started here. Nothing has happened, nor has it been known, nor has there been reports, nor has the Croatian Parliament heard a report on why there was a disaster in Cvelferia and throughout Slavonia. We know where the flood was, that's one thing. When he spoke about the need to help the EU, so from the EU Solidarity Fund, then he said we don't need it, we will do it ourselves. Well, he's responsible when he said he could do it alone, and here we know what happens after a year of flood. Nothing! So nothing's the way it was. And from the EU Solidarity Fund, Serbia received 60m euros, Croatia 9, and Bosnia and Herzegovina received 12m euros. And that's the responsibility of our government which perhaps, but I believe it didn't show and didn't understand the extent of the damage in Slavonia and Baranja caused by the floods. And of course, Serbia has shown damage in Serbia and received 60m euros and Croatia 9. As they have shown, and in the Government it is on Croatian waters and on all other institutions of the state to show damage in Croatia. He first told us we do not need to ask for EU assistance as if it were psychic Milan. And that's how it was, actually, and that's how it happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103630	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103631	Thank you, dear colleague Grubisic. You wondered who was paying, where was being done, who educated all these operational forces of civil protection and civil protection systems and you well noticed that it was not a well-defined area of education for this law which is necessary and which is good to go in two readings. This solution to education is due to an insufficient understanding of the education system, lack of understanding of the importance and model of education, and the most insufficient understanding of the educational process. Namely, for the purposes of the civil protection system now, the education of participants is carried out, says the programmes are adopted by the Head of the State Civil Protection Administration. It's just inadmissible. Well, you know who approves educational programs, who betrays pass-bys. What we're going to educate on the programs without permission. Well, that's exactly on the trail of current solutions. And now the State Administration for Civil Protection and Rescue is illegally conducting education of some of its participants, issuing diplomas, retraining for purposes, and there's no permit for it. By this law already Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service, which is a world example of training, now a leader, director, will set a program for them when they are already doing so according to the world's highest standards. It's inadmissible for such solutions to be done. Where's the head's competence to bring in a formal education program? I can't believe someone could fall for this kind of solution. Something he doesn't understand will formally bring in a programme to educate all participants for the needs of civil protection instead of experts developing a programme without the ministry Approves acquittals and writes what qualifications it acquires in such transactions. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103632	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103633	Thank you very much. A fellow Maric, so they will pay for an adviser or some kind of external service that will collect a fee to make them an education programme. It's common with us, it's nothing unusual. Well, we also know about the master's plan for the hospital 200 thousand euros that we paid. We don't know about our hospitals, better the French know about our hospitals than we do ourselves. And so a series, for tourism, the Ministry of Tourism, also others write to them strategy, development, program, etc. and four, five million kunas someone and there outside the flaw and he doesn't care, fee. And so it's actually setting up a job for someone who's in good relations with those in charge in the state. And when you talk about the problem between Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service and the State Office to save this problem of smoldering, as well as the fire department that we also had the problem of including it in the DZS and for years it has been silent, silent. And one day we're gonna have to deal with it all together. Whether this law will not see any changes in order to specify things and relations between the fire department, between the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service and the DUZS as it is already called, so we stay at this zero zero, unsettled all together. There. And something else when we talk about education. Well, you see, every time I walk past a fire extinguisher, I remember at the hospital in '94, we had a five-year training on the use of fire extinguishers conducted by a public fire department called Slavonski Brod. And then I always read to pull the fuse, take the hose, press the handle. And I've been saying it like that all the time since I knew it. But thank God I didn't get a chance to apply that. Maybe Milosevic would know better than I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103634	This shouldn't have happened in the end. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, Vice-President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103635	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club will support this bill in its first reading. I will try in short lines to raise certain doubts, certain dilemmas and our reflections regarding certain articles of the bill, and what we consider important, and this is also the very text of the opening section that the civil protection system needs to be developed as a special part of the national security system. That thinking, or definition, results in how much we believe this is an extremely important law and therefore we support its adoption. Because the existing regulation was not clear enough, and ultimately there were more possibilities for certain failures than there will be in this part. It is good that the law goes into two readings, the more the discussions could show from previous discussions, I believe that both the proposer and the designer will also serve for certain adjustments. What we consider to be extremely important, namely this law and those provisions of the law will only be applied when certain incidents, accidents, disasters, etc. happen. So it'll all work immaculately if everything works out. Unfortunately, both from experience and in these 25 years of our country and before, we see that when such an accident or disaster occurs that this system is not the happiest solution, that is, a series of gaps and shortcomings have also been shown. I therefore believe that, since this proposal of the law has also introduced certain European experiences of certain Member States that have more experience of the negative in that part so that our law can be improved by second reading, complemented, and ultimately when we will have to use it in order to express myself to be functional. What I apologize for not having continuity is simply too short a time, but here I am going to go because from the very opening part of the reading means implementing the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia according to which civil protection is one of the jobs of the self-government, which only speaks and is seen from a series of articles of the text of the law that most of the work, responsibilities and obligations occur precisely at the level of local self-government. What is further is our proposal, our thinking when it comes to Chapter 3 evaluations and sources of the necessary means is little to admit the vaguely defined and self-financing and thinking of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party in order to perhaps the same as for the fire department as for the Red Cross and for the operational part of the civil protection system, and everything that arises from that may need to be defined by a certain percentage whether this level is as for the Red Cross, less, more than that? But here's one of our thoughts, hopefully Deputy Minister, that you've heard what I've said. The proposal is to finance the protection and rescue system in a manner such as the Red Cross, with a certain percentage of the budget and units of local, regional and national levels. There's been a possibility of funding from one particular fund in view of us at the HNS for the importance of this law, which is part of the national security system, don't take me wrong, but setting up a fund gives me a little bit of it I won't tell you unseriously, but I don't think this proposal reflects the very intensity of the whole law. Our proposal is here I go specifically to determine a certain percentage from which the system of protection and rescue will be financed. What I'd like to try, and in part I've already said, I'm going to try to be, I'm going to concentrate mostly on what we think is one of the biggest part of the work of the civil protection system in the operational section being carried out at the level of local self-government, the threat plan, the threat assessment and the risk assessment of major accidents. In fact, these are documents that should in some ways define whether this part that we have proposed is going to be set aside for a civil protection system in a certain percentage depends or will vary from local self-government to local self-government. Depending on the assessment of the hazard, i.e. the assessment of the risk of major accidents. So when it comes to Article 15, the annual plan and analysis of the situation, the development plan of the civil protection system with financial effects for a 3-year period, is considered and adopted in the budgetary process, and the guidelines are considered and adopted for every 4 years. Is the risk assessment of disasters a special document or is the risk assessment an integral part of the annual plan? Is the risk assessment also including a risk assessment plan that will give basic elements whether the percentage that would be set out under our proposal for a civil protection system is sufficient, whether or not a particular JLS is sufficient? And I would certainly suggest that there be respect and income at the level of local self-government and that the state has certain budgetary resources in the case of larger-scale incidents that absolutely in the law create an assumption that it can be more quality and directly involved in the financing of disaster prevention and the consequences of disaster. Furthermore, what is also our thinking, it may seem strange to you that as head of local self-government I suggest it, but I am speaking for the club, in order to just point out our understanding, understanding how important this law is and implementing this law, I am, but I am asking the question to all of us, whether the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, respecting election cycles, and respecting here we now have in several units of local self-government, the mayors, are going to be new or the old will come again, given the role of enforceability in this law. whether we are competent enough, educated enough to be able to conduct in that part of the task force and ultimately have a Civil Protection Staff, we will call it a professional person who, by my assessment, is far more competent than the head of the local self-government in that part. Of course, the head of local self-government must be present, it must also be on that team, but I say I'd like you to think about this proposal, this thinking, because the ultimate goal is that everything works when it's necessary. Furthermore, what I would also like to point out is what we consider very important, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service is also an operational part with fire and Croatian Red Cross in this bill. For Croatia, it depends on whether individual individuals of local self-government have it, whether it works in a particular area, region, local self-government or not, and I understand why there are no defined sources of funding. But I'd like to warn you about funding just one example I took for my local self-government, which means the basis of an assessment of the threat to the city and the local self-government unit that I'm managing should be 51 members of the civil protection system. It is estimated that such information has been obtained from competent institutions, that the equipment of 51 members, volunteers of civil protection, is somewhere around 3,000 to 3.5 thousand kuna per person. It's about 150 to 200 thousand kunas in the beginning. In the case of, now try to understand it with what I have defined a certain percentage to be desirable for this system, so that we can implement this law, so we should adopt all these documents, sublegal acts means within a few years if I manage to read quality, to equip this system, you would see what would lead to a threat assessment, that you should engage perhaps additional forces, additional technical equipment firepower, the Red Cross. It should mean that within some period of year to year and a half, within the shortest time period, it should be set aside, and I will say an estimate of about 8 to 10% of the original budget revenues once. So as not to have the inspection, or the one doing the surveillance, that I as the leader wouldn't have to pay the fine. I hope that in this section where it is said that there is a possibility and donation, co-financing etc. I would also like to see my thinking, I think that in certain Member States it is defined, but that it should be preferred to move from a national level with risk plans, risk assessment plans and that local self-government units should then suggest, or help not only in those equipment, but simply define certain documents according to which both the head and the operational force, or the person who, as I say, would have far more quality management capabilities. What I would like to point out more is that I would just like to point out the transitional and final provisions. Just one question practically until when do the plans of the units of local self-government remain in place and within what deadline should they be harmonised? I simply didn't or may not read carefully, but I couldn't, not only me, but also the Civil Protection Headquarters couldn't define the exact deadline. I hope you'll appreciate these thoughts, think about it. Also, as far as the entire text of the law is concerned, I think it's in certain articles that contentally looking at it having elements of sublegal acts. You might want to consider that law, let's not shorten it, but in substance and that certain elements of these bill proposals that articles are exclusively operational to be defined in sublegal acts. Thank you. Of course, and as I said in the introduction, the HNS club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103636	We'll do more replicas and then we'll go to the vote. Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103637	Dear Vice President, you said that the existing regulation is wrong and does not define things, it is not clear and it is true. But the fact is that in this proposed law is a lot of things that are unclear and that you don't really know how it's going to be. For example, only one thing, the role or relationship of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and Civil Protection, is not said anywhere here, whether it will be two parallel bodies again, whether one will be a distraction to another which is often happening to us. And perhaps another thing that is equally unclear to me in that part of clarity, so the central body of the State Civil Protection Administration. What's the central body? There's no indication of what the central body is. Is that going to be the head of the State Security and Rescue Authority or will he be a resolute minister, I can't figure out what this is about? You were talking about funding and you were talking about the fact that we should decentralize one percent, I agree with that absolutely, but there's one big problem here. Local self-government has lost significant money by changing income taxes, probably a similar situation with you. We're somewhere, at my place at about 12, 13% reduced income. We're getting plans, programs, reports, we're paying for it. There's still education going on here, and we're gonna pay for it from an authorized facility. So I think the law should actually bring all these plans down to one plan, cut those costs. It even makes it impossible for someone to make money on it, to organize experts from the system who can do it on their own, not that we still have to pay for it. Because you can't do it volunteerically, you have to pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103638	Reply to the replica Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103639	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hrg, and your replica was on the trail of a part of my debate, we also spoke as the leaders of the local self-government one and the other. In fact, when I suggested on behalf of the HNS Club that our thinking is to define a certain percentage for the allocation from the budget for the civil protection system it was primarily on the trail of this, we give a certain level of seriousness. We have for the Red Cross separation, we have for the fire department, and when we look at the civil protection system, it's covered in accidents, so that's where the firemen and the Red Cross are subordinated to. So by logic, if we're lying to a vertical, then civil protection is above all else. And I think it's personal. And also fire and the Red Cross and all operational forces factors should be in the function of protecting citizens and property of citizens and resources. So that was my thinking. I agree, of course, that our calculations, I've also set an example. Very briefly, it means that some 8 to 10% of the budget for the next year and a half days when it would be able to equip for the area, should equip operational forces for its unit area. I also showed one here, which showed the sensitivity of the central state, whether through donations, whether through some other sources of funding it would be good, desirable in the common interest to finance it together. Here I hope, I see that the Deputy Minister is here, monitoring and I believe that all these suggestions and remarks will be appreciated and considered until the second reading that we will have more consistent proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103640	Ante Sander, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103641	The Honorable Vice President, in connection with your debate on Articles 20 and 21, and this is the mayor's question whether he is the head of crisis situations. I see you as the head of the local self-government unit that it's a burden and you said justifiably maybe some mayors and mayors aren't professional, all of this should be taken into account and we justify it all. But here's from my experience, but the operational, fire department is very important that the head man be there because someone needs to make decisions. You know what our people's mental set is, when they ask you for a meeting you say, so if there's my assistant, he'll see you, he says, no, no, no, I want you to take me in. And from that psychological one, but more importantly, the other one needs to make decisions and the most competent decisions are made by the leaders. And I therefore appeal to you, but also to the Deputy Minister, that both the article and the 20th and the 21st are being reformed and that it can not be written by the Head of Government to the last municipality, but that it must be there, he, or his deputy, because it will surely bring the highest quality management system. Because it is not expected from the leaders that he is running a fire-fighting intervention that he manages the fire, that he manages not an earthquake or any such crisis, he is expected to coordinate. And unfortunately, some people get it wrong, and even in this state administration, they get it wrong. And here was the debate about it, so then there's a conflict because these people aren't expert on some things and they don't want to be hats or oil above water as we say in Dalmatia. Here's what's causing the problem in the system. But the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, the Prime Minister, or his deputy, are at these headquarters, it is crucial for the importance and operationality of this intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103642	Reply to the replica Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103643	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Sanader, maybe you didn't get me very well, I did when I said, because we also have a head of civil protection headquarters, so that means as a professional person who is more qualified and far more qualified than the local self-government leader himself. I just pointed out, so it's not like I'm running away from responsibility, from obligations and what's prescribed by law, but I've also pointed out certain problems that are possible. Now here are the particulars for March 8th elections in certain local self-governments. What, during this period, is the Commissioner who is not qualified, who does not have, etc., etc.? So that's where I should not be diminished, because the most important thing is the head of the locals, he's the proponent of the budget. If the proposal is not respected to go to a fixed amount and it should and if it goes fixed, it should and provide additional, so the finance is the key. But this operational part, I say, I'd say for that part, that part I was talking about, that it should absolutely be in the jurisdiction of the Chief of Staff of Civil Protection. Professionalism has an advantage anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103644	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103645	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your esteemed colleague here mentioned two things in the debate that I would especially point out. One thing is funding, whether it is necessary to introduce a funding obligation by decision as we have for the Red Cross or the Fire Department, but we see in these discussions that the Ministry of Finance has in some way rejected it, it has not accepted. There are advantages and disadvantages. The advantage is that regardless of the political structures or the wishes of the mayor, the mayor introduces a fixed funding quota, but on the other hand, the flaw is that here is my case in the fire department, bigger cities that single out these funds can be top-of-the-line equipment, while the same smaller cities or municipalities for the same money are not enough to function. So it still needs to be discussed rationally as much as it takes to function itself, and that speaks of the strategy that we bring. But another thing I would especially like to mention, which is really the problem of funding civil protection equipment that when you said we all have about 10,000 residents somewhere 51 operatives in the civil protection system and when you multiply on average how much that equipment should be, these are huge amounts. I think that at the level of the ministry and government, we should define the possibility that, let's say, perhaps the entrepreneurial impulse of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts can come up with certain funds where our businessmen would benefit from, and at one common level, if nothing else was unified equipment in the entire territory of Croatia for civil protection or from European Union funds, then it would be very helpful for weaker municipalities and cities by financial resources, and that equipment would again be at a higher level. I think there's a chance and we should think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103646	Replica response, Vice President Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103647	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, mate, that's what we discussed at the club when we were preparing common ground on this bill. Certain areas of local self-government that have budgets far above the average of the Republic of Croatia, I suppose, will not be a problem for them, but units of local self-government, which are largely smaller municipalities and smaller towns that are well below the average of the Republic of Croatia on their original incomes, will definitely be a problem for them. And absolutely what you said, and I was also trying to point out this problem to the Deputy Minister, financing, procurement, and I showed it specifically for my city, and we're similar here to how much it is. However, what I would also like to say about organising civil protection, I cannot remember exactly what article, there is the possibility of uniting more units of local self-government on islands and similar writings. So here's a question to the deputy whether there's a possibility since we're split into smaller units of local self-government that this part means a common system of operational civil protection forces to be for more local self-government units and I'd like you to try to figure out what that means until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103648	My colleagues and colleagues, the rest of us will continue to work. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103649	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Proposers of this law argue that, quote: "The adoption of the Civil Protection System Act would solve the existing problem of conflict between the concepts of protection and rescue and civil protection through the implementation of a comprehensive normative reform of the system and the renaming of the system of protection and rescue into the system of civil protection would also... harmonisation and standardisation with the situation in the EU space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Obviously, there are two objectives, on the one hand, to achieve a comprehensive reform of the system and, on the other hand, renaming the system of civil protection, protection and rescue in the civil protection system. It seems to me that even if we take this part and say a little ominously that it's a cosmetic alignment that it's not even consequently implemented, and this second objective of comprehensive reform as we've heard it and it's problematic since the introduction says that civil protection is part of the national security system. We have seen that civil protection was also related to the Ministry of Defence, for the Ministry of Interior since 2000 for the State Department for Protection and Rescue, that there is no such assessment and compatibility relations, or overlapping as they are being resolved, we can ask ourselves the question of how it will work. The proposer simply speaks of the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for civil protection matters, but it is not explicitly stated whether it is the State Protection and Rescue Authority or not. If it is or if it is not, the Proposer should have said, with a saying, that it obliges the Government to amend the IA Regulation if it is the body or the central authority that will exist. It's just that it's been unsaid. On the other hand, my colleague Shuker once again warned last week about the inconsistencies in the terminology of these laws, and this is repeated here. Unfortunately, because of time, I can’t read all these inconsistencies and inconsistencies or unnecessary complexity of language and expressions, so much time is spent to understand what individual legal provisions can say, he simply wants to say. But we also have in this desire to make this renaming of the protection system into a civil protection system, so it tells you in the definition of "protection and rescue marks the activities that are organised in the function of the civil protection system". So it's not the protection of the rescue system as a civil protection system, it's the activities organised by the civil protection system. I say, these are some inconsistencies. In addition to saying, I would like to say that this termology is archaic, some terms are archaic and not only from political but also from a simple way of managing and managing today's systems in the 21st century, so we still use the term "handling, managing, managing, managing, managing officers." So it should simply be coordinated and changed. What is said about the operational forces instead of saying the Croatian Fire Department is uncertainly saying the operational forces of the fire department and already here it is said that there are 65 public fire departments, 1895 voluntary fire companies, 90 professional fire companies with over 60 thousand operational members and with some 140 years of tradition. And that segment we've heard here by some and it's the most important or most stable and it's not mentioned in the saying. And that's one of these shortcomings. It is good that not all municipalities, or units, have certain units anymore. But we're talking about units of general, specialist and intervention purposes that are said to be planning according to their needs by local administration. However, in some cases he cannot, there is no need to duplicate some things. On the one hand, one municipality will have no need for certain specialist or intervention units, and they will be necessary for 2, 3 or counties. Therefore, this should somehow be planned differently at one national level and this has remained. At least you can't tell by law. It's a special problem of funding, but I'll say that more if I get to what's the problem. Article 20 states: "When disaster is declared to be a disaster, the operation of the civil protection headquarters of the Republic of Croatia can be taken over by the Prime Minister". In Article 13, the central and other authorities of the State administration may set up a Crisis Operations Centre, etc. In Article 21, the work of the Civil Protection Staff of the Local Self-Government Units shall be managed by the Chief of Staff and managed by direct management... on major accidents can be taken over by the executive body of the local administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This may, instead of the sea, have one real danger in cases where these accidents are larger scales that can occur unless there are two authorities and the one to the double line of decision which will only strengthen confusion or disorder. Therefore, this should be specified in which cases cannot but the heads of these from the Prime Ministers, ministers to the head of municipalities must assume that role in order to avoid these possible confrontations or competences in decision-making. As for one of the best options or intensities of the motion that the law provides for the possibility of setting up an extra- budget fund to pay for the cost of the operation of the operational civil protection force in a situation where and in the draft of the law in several places, it is said that these already existing funds are insufficient, that they cannot plan what should be within the framework of the programme and the projection of the risk of the task of civil protection then simply does not exist from that principle, does not result in us having a realistic opportunity to achieve such a thing in due time. So, on the other hand, if the system is to be decentralised, then I think the Vice-President of Parliament Batinic said it should be determined by certain means but the funds should be decentralised so that local and regional administrations and self-government have the means to do their tasks. There's one more thing here that I don't think anyone mentioned today, it's also said here that the head of this Central Authority responsible for the Civil Protection System prescribes rules for the collection of spatial alphanumeric data and documents, that I don't read the entire article 61, for the geographical information system. And that would be the function of planning and preventive civil protection measures. Look, again, we're coming up with something that we don't have a national information strategy so we don't see who's doing what's inside that system and how these systems can be devoured and used together because we have a geographical information system that's in the Ministry of Spatial Planning and certain bodies and there's no reason to create a new parallel system, but to use existing systems with upgrades in those elements that are needed for new functions. Furthermore, you have one situation to say the sign of civil protection of the Republic of Croatia is an international sign of civil protection and what is, let's take it that it's okay, but you have here, the same is said about international exercises, international education, international assistance abroad or in Croatia, and then it's normal to be a commitment rather than an option to be both national and that Croatian troops must have recognizable national designations and all of this goes for a number of reasons. First, it means that you can identify who at a certain point in time and work or did it, and on the other hand you can simply work on the dignity of these units and the people who did the job. In education, I think it has already been said, it says here that members of civil protection units are obliged to pass education as prescribed by this central body, and the head of that central body will prescribe not only programmes but also institutions to implement them. And it's already said here, so I'm not going to say it again, it's simply a reflection of an educational system, and it just can't be. Therefore, programmes should also be verified and delivered, and those centres for education do not mean everything, because basic fire departments, for the Red Cross, for the GSS are implemented and how they are implemented, and this is done well. Therefore, that is not the way to do it. We continue to have something that is incompatible, or dysfunctional, can be talked about the inspection supervision that is set up in the system of the central body of the state administration and you have one situation that it is the central body now and the administrative body and the operational body and the inspection body. In a situation where you don't have enough money, then the administrative body will prescribe what at local and regional level someone needs to do, he won't have any money, so he'll get this inspection, the one who prescribed it, and then he'll also punish him from 5 to 20 or I don't know how many thousands of kunas for which things are prescribed here. In such an organization, if it remains at least that way, it can only be an advisory body and not an executive one. And in short, in conclusion simply given this time, frankly since we have no insight into the entire system here, it is prescribed that members of civil protection are all 18 to 65 years old. I don't know who can say today under this law how many people will be practically activated in the civil protection system, how much they will be trained, in which units, in which systems, etc. No, you just don't have the parameters to figure it out. On the other hand, given the proposed management or command system, the system will simply be good to that extent, in situations where they are less complex, and less catastrophic that when individual segments are able to perform it independently from fire, GSS or the Red Cross, it will work. The more complicated, the greater the scale of these disasters or accidents, the more confusion will depend on the quality of individuals rather than the system. Furthermore, one of the dimensions that has not been talked about is that this entire system is insane. To go to the current head of this State Administration for Protection and Rescue or to force the future to list all procedures and rules of procedure that must be prescribed. I don't think without a computer they'll be able to do that. It's just one nonsense. In other words, in order to really come to a universal reform, we need to discuss the entire system of national security to see how large systems such as the Ministry of Defence, such as the Ministry of Defence, such as these other segments, are in order to reach one meaningful and functional system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103650	Time. Thank you, too. We have reports of replicas. Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103651	Thank you very much. So here you have also asked a respected colleague, a matter of connection and functioning in the extreme case, especially regarding that part of the State Department of Protection and Rescue that is not mentioned here, but you have spoken of it and you are talking about the head of the central body of the state. I don't know, I haven't been able to figure out what this is about, who should be the head of the central body if you've managed to catch it, here's what I'd very much like you to answer who it is. But it's exactly what you can actually see from the preparation of this law. So there is obviously not one real analysis of the situation on the ground with all the possibilities and problems that exist about the system. And then some kind of proposal to put all of this into one system in the part that can work. As you said by the fire community, it's written here in the law on these operational forces of fire, so there's the Croatian Fire Department, there's the chairman of the fire department Mr. Sanader who's set up. There's a system of public fire departments, there's a system of the Red Cross, there's various associations, scouts, mountain rescue service, I don't know who doesn't. So if we want to really and we need to make the Civil Protection Act really functional, we need to do one real analysis, see whose options, after that, solve that system of structures but preserve everyone in that system. Keep the fires from drowning the fire or the Red Cross or something else after that in civil protection, so this all goes away, that would be terrible, functionally necessary to connect.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103652	Thank you. Comrade Tudjman's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103653	Thank you. Comrade Hrg, regarding this first whether or not it is the head of the State Protection and Rescue Authority, it is obvious that the implications are contained even though no one has said it. But then it was necessary to say which laws would change, which provision would change. And as I said, it is then necessary to oblige the government to bring about a reconstruction of this central body that will abolish this state administration and rename this with new powers. As for this other one, there have been many words here today about solidarity and it has been said if I am not mistaken that the football club and the fire department and in every local environment is something that is held together by that community, by identity, by association and everything else. Here is an amazing ease as we give up our own traditions. If I'm not mistaken, the fire department has about 140 years of tradition. So this is just the way we erase it instead of being proud of it and keeping those elements because all disasters will not be large scales, by the way today is not only an earthquake but the Dubrovniks have a big cherries hit Dubrovnik in 1666 so that all segments will not always have to participate in clearing the situation and solving the consequences. That is why, just as you said, it is necessary to take care of the specificity and identity of these elements of civil protection, i.e. the entire system of national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103654	There'll be opportunities for another replica. Thank you. Allen Prelec, replica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103655	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's colleague Tudjman, I've heard one question from you, that was, I believe it's a rhetorical question, whether it's necessary to decentralisation the civil protection system. Definitely a civil protection system should be under the control of local self-government units, I think we all agree because I think local self-government knows best about it. Here is a colleague, Vice President Batinic, who is the same head of the local self-government unit, has talked a lot about it, and we know how much it really is necessary and how important it is to those units of local self-government that have some incidents or incidents. It was from the fire, from the flood. However, the question arises whether more units of local self-government now and how many of them we have can co-finance. Kola Batinić said that here we co-finance the clear and Red Cross, co-finance the fire department, co-finance some and mountain service, and that is in certain percentages. So it's not like we want to say it anymore or we don't want to, we just have to finance it in certain percentages. Whether or not we can make a decision that we must also finance civil protection in a certain percentage and the question is whether more units of local self-government will be able to finance it. That's what I'm afraid of. A lot of things are falling under us locals, we're aware that the money's getting smaller, whether it's going to be more, we all have to try, but I'm afraid there's going to be a lot of problems and the question is whether we can do it further and we know what kind of firepower we have, here I finally have with me such firepower that could definitely take over all the competences of civil protection right now and without any problems. And secondly, there was also talk of the responsibility of the leader of the local self-government unit. I think that we as leaders can hardly accept the full responsibility of civil protection because first of all we are not professional, this should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103656	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Tudjman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103657	I apologize if I have not been precise in what I was about to say, I have said or should say that the intensity is the law to be decentralised and this system but that it is not possible to expect from the local administration and self-government to finance all these demands and that it is therefore necessary that part of these, part of the funding, means I supported what Mr Batinić said should be determined by decentralised, decentralisation of funds for these needs. But in addition, if intervention or specialist needs are now formed which will work in a wider area for which you cannot always predict where they will be needed, they should be financed from these, from the budget directly at national level and not from local administration and self-government funds. In that, it was, it was the intention of this exhibit of mine to expose it but simply perhaps because of the time I incorrectly said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103658	Thank you. Ante Sanader, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103659	Thank you. Here's a colleague of Tudjman you spoke of, you opened an interesting topic, this width of civil protection, if I understood correctly, you said from 18 to 65 years of age what it says in the law, clearly. But that civil protection width is also an interesting topic that I believe no one has paid particular attention to, namely, good for us here, citizens, citizens, so you know citizens, but citizens unorganized, untrained, unprepared, unprepared for such a situation, they can only be a problem and a system, and themselves because when something happens to that citizen then he will sue who, the state and seek his rights justifiable. But it's very important, secondly, in the assessment of risk and risk assessment and the creation of plans, it's crucial, important methodology and criteria, that we have clearly defined criteria because experience has taught us the last 15 years how much we have estimated from various private agencies, then between the two cities the exact same, but by some criteria you have a completely different assessment. So that this law should also define that the State or the competent authority, we have a central body, should provide clear criteria and methodology for drawing up risk assessments and drawing up plans. Because what's happening on the ground right now is that we have two relatively similar environments of completely different criteria, which brings us back to a lot of problems so that one city has to have 100 things or 50... it has to have 20 professional ones. So that's very important to us and not to talk about some width, all citizens, not all citizens, let the troops be smaller, but to be well equipped, trained and prepared for these events because you know when the attacks are on all sides or as volunteers. When the volunteer comes and leaves whenever he wants to. It's like volunteering, I'm gonna come help but I'm going when I get bored, I'm leaving. So there must be those who come voluntarily or some citizens must be predetermined, or they must be prepared, not come from the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103660	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Tudjman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103661	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Sanader, about this part, first covers these civil protection systems because this is supposed to be from 18 to 65 years old. That's what I said, it has to be assessed at the level of the national security system. Now to caricate a little bit, you have 1/3 of the population that is starving and 1/3 that is going to take off the weight because it's for a variety of reasons. So one question arises, do we need a manual army composition also because of this psychophysical conditioning of the entire nation and then regular maintenance, then it can be incorporated into the civil protection system to get to that one balanced solution. And then the clear thing is, you won't always use the entire population 100%, but then that population can engage in other jobs. As far as this planning is concerned, I've never been in that position like you to be in charge of some local or this position, but probably someone has a dilemma about predicting some major risks, and then they have to stand out more or predict less so they don't have to have an obligation to stand out. Therefore, this methodology is not necessary and unique. If these risks are realistic in estimates then it must be seen if local or regional (area) administrations and self-government are unable to finance it, who will finance it. It goes with each other because we can't just suddenly predict dangers, not do anything about it. So this clear thing is that the methodology needs to be unique in order for all these assessments to be as realistic, but then you have to see who's going to take over to finance it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103662	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Marijan Škurić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103663	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's when we talk about the Civil Protection Act, it's always kind of about firemen, so here's what I might say. We who are the heads of cities and municipalities, and now that we are present in many congregations, primarily in the fire department, then when they say hello, they always say that all firefighters want as much association and exercise as possible and as little intervention as possible. So this is how we would like to talk about civil protection to be as much exercise, education as possible, preparation, and as little intervention as possible, but unfortunately this will not be the case because it is seen from the example in this part of the introduction of this bill, where natural disasters are said to kill about 90,000 people every year, and in other ways around 160 million people around the world, and in Croatia alone, according to the Ministry of Finance, annually, damages in the range of 3.3.5 billion kuna are caused. It's just talking about how we have to have a whole system that, in the event of such disasters, then we're going to have to have solutions not only. And civil protection is just one part, that's what we've been saying all along, in one system about interventions and that part of responsibility itself. And yes, it is not mentioned here that apart from civil protection there is the Croatian Red Cross, there is the Croatian Fire Department, there is the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, the Croatian Community of Technical Culture, the county communities, associations of cities, associations of municipalities and the Office for Emergency Management of the largest city, the city of Zagreb. There's the Department of Public Health, there's the police, there's the army, so the whole system that needs to be well and coordinated in cases of disaster. When we talk about this law too, then we mention statements that are well defined, which is that we need reform, we need a new system, we need simplified procedures, and that, most importantly, we need to define competences. When we talk about this jurisdiction, it is also said that there are many organised capacities, but we also include many associations and, of course, we mention citizens. When we talk about associations, it is also defined in this law that they must and should be involved, depending on their competences, depending on their skills, that is the most important. It's already mentioned here that it's very important and you can't send someone to do something if he's not qualified for something because there's also a threat to that person himself or to that team itself, not just to save or help someone else. Speaking of which, let’s just say the example of ourselves scouts that we have very much included and, as an association in that part, it is very important to contribute and help to the citizens or in many such circumstances. Then we're talking about responsibility, we're talking about interoperability, and right here as mayor of the city, and as many colleagues, we can say that it all starts from us. And not just because we may not be trained, no. We wouldn't be there if we had the responsibility we had, we wouldn't be able to do it at the right time and realize it. Just for a few years ago when I was at a professional consultation, a seminar from Italy that we mentioned here, the president of civil protection of that region then said if you knew what I was doing. He was a music teacher, but he ran the entire civil protection system in that part. Why? Because you're in... when it should have proved to be a kind of organizer, a species specialised in certain things and managed to define it unlike many who were as professional and responsible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At a given time, they unfortunately failed to meet their obligations. So we're the ones who in the day of the moment, and these are all cataclysms, disasters that occur unannounced, to a large extent with great danger, we have to react in a very quality, professional and responsible way. The part then mentions the responsibility of the unit leader of local and regional self-government for the operation of the system, for determining development policy and for financing. When we talk about the operation of the system, it is defined that we are responsible, and that says criminal responsibility from 5 to 20 thousand kuna. Yes, this entire system works to be here within and within the framework of the authority and as mayor in cooperation with municipal or city councils, all of those documents that are necessary are contributed. Here we also had on the City Council last night decisions on the plan for protection and rescue and also on the assessment of the threat of the population, material and cultural goods, as well as the environment. And yes, it's the system's operation. We are also responsible that, on the basis of this assessment, we as mayors or commissioners must bring adequate acts to ensure that the whole system works. And there is also the possibility in this law that if more municipalities and cities want to join in this system of adequate functioning of civil protection. I'd just like to make a suggestion here. Yes, it's possible, but when I talk about politics, maybe even within the action itself, although being neighbors can be a limiting factor in the action itself. And I suggest that such a part of the coordination be taken over by the county. The county must be the one to say then, that here you are not in your part when making the risk assessment you did not define that you needed a civil protection system but you four or five needed it. And now as mayor, I command you to do it. If this is not going to be that level, unless it is strictly within the law that the county, or regional administration, does so, we believe it will not be done by the mayors and mayors in that part. That's what we know it won't be and I think there's then a proposal to put into law that at that point if someone doesn't define it, and then it needs to have the mayor's authority as executive head of regional self-government. And that would significantly improve that uncertainty whether someone wants it or doesn't want it. Oh, yeah, there's that policy and development and funding. If you leave someone again whether they want to finance something or not, believe me, the most common question is that it is one item, a concept that only burdens the budget or budget line and will most often be thrown out. I agree with the fact that it should not also be conditional on certain percentages from the legal basis that it must be ensured, because and now what we already have, as I have said for firefighters and for the Red Cross, does not speak of in some way the willingness to do the thing, and this speaks of if some city has a large original budget income of about 7, 0.7% as much as for firefighters that are huge amounts. If someone has a smaller budget, they're small funds again. So someone can have equipment that can be as we say space equipment, and someone with the same money can't buy a single trigger shovel. So, at the state level, civil protection activities must be defined and assisted through funds. I think local self-government units have the means, I can find for that basic part of the operation, that means training and education, insurance and other things. But for the equipment of a technical matter, capital investment must then be helped from this fund. And that would do more, let's say, experience from Slovenia and about the fire department, so it doesn't happen that someone wants equipment that doesn't belong to them. It's got to be standardized, it's got to be... Equipment throughout the area will then be helped on units of local (regional) self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this operation, yes, should be decentralised but the equipment and investment should be centralised. I think that these funds can be found much simpler, what I said in the replica from EU funds, and also other programmes such as what I said to the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts and the Ministry of Economy from the Programme of Entrepreneurship Impulse. It would help if the equipment were then unique, it would be the specific one that requires every piece of it. I mean, which prevents some leader from buying himself a boat, although there's no river or stream on its part, but that sounds nice. I think from the state level one such thing needs to be strictly defined how and in what way to do it. And that means once again putting a higher emphasis on the regional administration, the counties that will coordinate at a lower level and need funding to come down to that level to be operational and to have the equipment and everything in function of civil protection. Once again, I can say that in this law that is in the first reading a lot is appreciated in this first reading already in the public debate. It speaks of the fact that this ministry is highly respected, this government is bound by civil protection and, of course, by the ultimate goal that really when disasters are we want them as little as possible and that we hang out more, that we only have exercises and as little intervention as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103664	Thank you. We have one replica, Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103665	Thank you. Here's a colleague... I must say, I fully agree with what you said last. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most important thing is to be effective, not some legal frameworks and percentages should be enslaved, but each head of the local self-government unit should decide whether to invest in civil protection more or less. Clearly, it depends on how threatened he is by natural activity itself. You also mentioned 3 to 3.5 billion kuna as much damage in Croatia, I think it's an extremely large number. We probably won't be able to significantly reduce it, no matter what civil protection system it is, a natural disaster is a natural disaster, but I agree with you in that part of what you said needs to be more units of local self-government brought together. And is that possible under this law? Now, we can ask the deputy, is it possible, under that law or the former one, whether two municipalities or two cities or any local self-government units can be joined together to act together in civil protection. I think it's the same important thing if we don't want to continue to burden the local self-government units themselves, and we have them bigger, smaller ones. And that would be in any case in function of that. Or we'll have to from time to time, and we'll see in the newspaper signs that the pressure is high, to reduce municipalities and cities. I believe that such things should not be considered, and especially this civil protection system should not go in this direction that we burden cities and municipalities even more than we help them join but on a voluntary basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103666	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Skuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103667	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, I absolutely agree with the fact that organization and efficiency can be put first. And then a lot depends on us local self-government leaders. When we talk about efficiency, here we talk about floods all the time here, and we didn't mention one important thing that's happening most now in our northern Croatia, it's the rinks. It is quite unfortunately the case where we are now back here last year, and this year we have damage on the rinks of almost 15 million kunas, and these rinks never cover just one area of one city, but they cover a wider area. And that's where we cooperate absolutely. This is where, even in the night hours, there are threats and public roads anywhere, but above all, some houses and households come out immediately on the ground and there is this mayor who can then absolutely effectively activate all the systems that they are. Yeah, well, it's the first firefighters, of course, then the other communal infrastructure that's subject to it can activate the mayor. It is only after that that 112 can then be activated that the other systems, primarily the police, if they need to close the road, activate at that level. Indeed, it depends on us and really depends on how much money we have. But we manage somehow and in any case, there is even more to be understood and supported by the government through these funds that will then help us in the field at that second stage when there is a recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103668	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. Drazen Pandek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103669	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, I think this law in first reading should be supported. There is a need for real establishment of this system and in several cases this could be seen in practice. We have had opportunities to see that this system should be much more complex and coordinated in the event of certain incidents or disasters. Here's one of the cases that comes to mind about a year ago was the case when the waste warehouse, the dangerous waste in the western part of Zagreb, and it could be seen through the media that the coordination was missing, and I had the chance to talk to the people of the fire department who confirmed that there was a particular confusing situation in which no one knew exactly who was responsible for what and what was the jurisdiction. That's how you do it, for example. There also came personnel from the City Office who tried to take over management, so people from the Public Fire Department, so the people from the volunteer fire department who then eventually experienced that they were not invited in time, although they already knew there was a fire. So, there was conflicting information. Most of the time, this is one example when it was seen that the system was not working properly, fortunately without greater and more serious consequences. This law is now in the first reading, and we should welcome the fact that now a system is being established that will surely be able to react better than boredom. And now we have a chance to make comments and suggestions for improvement. So, I welcome that the law is in two readings. This is how I might highlight certain remarks, proposals aimed at improving existing solutions. First of all, on the trail of some previous discussions, I would suggest that even in a better, more concrete way, fire, primarily voluntary fire, be included in this civil protection system. They already have an organization and have certain resources that should certainly be used. Therefore, additional resources and assistance in the work could also be given this way so that they could carry out additional tasks. There's no point in working a separate unit, a separate... system if there's already an organization and a people in a voluntary fire system that can fit into the system. Where it exists, I don't see why we shouldn't regulate it that way. Therefore, I do not see any obstacles to the possible further consultations with the representatives of the fire department and, in particular, to the existing system of voluntary firefighting to include this system in the civil protection system and to the fact that existing forces which meet therefore certain criteria that may require further training not to be included in the system as civil protection bonds. There should therefore clearly also support from the state level, at the very least organisation of education, supply of equipment and the like. There is an additional problem, when it comes to the involvement of civil protection officers, which may be somewhat linked to this problem of engagement of people involved in the voluntary fire system. It is clear that these bonds must therefore be prepared, certain exercises must pass, and must ultimately be said and raised in case of need. The law now mentions certain fees, but it doesn't seem to solve it, correct me if I'm wrong, does not solve the problem with the work of those civil protection officers, future debtors. This is otherwise how a favourable problem is informed in the fire department when voluntary firemen are to be hired in a particular emergency situation, in a particular intervention or when necessary, for example. Send them to help in case of major fires, fires on the coast. So far, I feel like here's how informed I am that there is no basis for the absence of these volunteers from work, nor the obligation of the employer to allow them to miss their jobs. I think that this area should be regulated legally because otherwise the entire system can be encountered with problems. I believe that local self-government units should be organised by the system and this civil protection at their level, of course under the supervision and professional guidance of more instance. Of course, these units know best how to build a system in their area, which exists, what are the possibilities and other important things to organize it. Here is the possibility that more units can join together if they cannot carry out their tasks on their own. My colleague Novak is not now, in his reply to my replica, I could not answer in a certain way about this subject, but it is necessary to say that it is not necessary to abolish a unit of local self-government which in this work could not fulfil its tasks, but also enables this law in a certain way to apply this principle of subsidiarity. The only obvious leader of the local self-government unit would have to say openly and publicly that his unit does not have the power to carry out the task. As for further action then, I agree and the debate said that more detailed rules should be laid down for such cases so that the system should be established. So, if you have a problem, if there is an obligation of some local self-government to set up a system it can't, I think there should be a clear system which, in that case, in order to establish a system if someone can't, and realistically that such a situation will be if it can't be executed in its area. I would say that this law is a good foundation, introducing a necessary system of civil protection. I say hello, I repeat what goes on in two readings. I also recommend that the public debate be extended, especially with members of the fire department, as in my opinion, by a basic kind of force which should and should be included in this civil protection system and then improved for these proposals that will come from the field of people who should and who will be involved in this system, then refer to another reading. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103670	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103671	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, you were talking about firemen as civil protection bonds. It seems to me that we often misread the role of volunteer firefighters primarily because today you have a situation that a volunteer firefighter cannot go to the intervention and fire extinguishing if there is no medical examination, he must not come to the firefield. And at the same time in the fire community and DVD system, we have thousands of firefighters, trained people, people who know how to function in the system, and they can't put out the fire. It's in that particular piece of work that's this huge potential for civil protection. Because in civil protection they can work, be organized to remove the ruins, clear the ruins I don't know any other things but I can't put out the fire. He has to be trained there. So it's a little bit of this notion in this law of firepower, what do we mean by that? If these are the operational forces of the fire department, here's what a fellow Sanader could talk a lot more about, then the notion is that it's a group of volunteer firemen who are trained to put out fires, and what about these others? And they're in the system, they even have the equipment specified, so you have to put it on paper, which has a fire community all over the units of local self-government, villages, cities, which is the equipment, what do we have? Do one detailed analysis, see and what some other groups have that are organized and then after that all together as today is said to try to connect to a system that will be functional. Civil protection is just a framework. Every one of these guys knows his job inside, no one must feel threatened with survival in the civil protection system.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103672	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103673	Thank you. In fact, first of all, I thought you were replicating me with the opposite opinion, but in the end, it seems to me that we still agree that we need to further consider all these aspects that are important, which we have highlighted in an important debate and that these people can actually be bonds if they meet certain conditions and we clearly see, we would recommend safely and be recruited on a voluntary basis by these civil protection bonds. By making sure they are also given the knowledge that they will have support and material, and in the effort to carry out their duties as civil protection bonds. So I think it's mostly in principle that we get along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103674	Thank you. Ante Sanader replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103675	Thank you, Vice President. Here's fellow Pandek, you've opened a good question that I didn't intend to open here today even though it's a big problem for us, and this is firemen and working hours, or jobs, going out of the fire department when it comes to intervention. This is usually a real problem in all European countries, but if we look at the good examples of Austria and Germany that have the best organised voluntary firepower, then we should also think about that, too, that, in our case, the Fire Department is regulated. Austrians or Germans have a system to stimulate entrepreneurs, privates because it's still cheaper for them to have a voluntary firefighter who's trained, trained and equipped to go out for his intervention than to pay eventually for his going out on fire or some kind of intervention that the firefighters are going out, so it's cheaper than hiring a professional firefighter because we know how much it costs a professional employee and therefore the Austrians have a model of compensation for the entrepreneur, even stimulating him to hire that firefighter and make up for all the costs there. We don't think about it at all, the good, the hard economic situation, the hard financial situation. You're just saying for days that you're a fireman then you won't be hired there because he says I need a worker and I don't need a fireman. So volunteer firefighters are hiding that they're voluntary firefighters and they wouldn't have gone out of business at all. But obviously it stays for a better time. Although the other problem is when a professional firefighter goes out, why should you in your town, you have a public fire department, you pay for it, and then you will allow solidarity. Solidarity may be up to a certain level but you can't let that man go then, pay him, that he goes somewhere to the Adriatic or somewhere to put out the fires and you pay him in I don't know in Great Gorica, Sisak or someplace. So it's another undefined issue in the fire department, and all that works with good friendly relationships.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103676	Thank you. My colleague Pandek's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103677	I agree, the problem is that I've seen in the fire department, too, but here I think we might have that problem with civil protection officials as well. Because if he has to go to practice, if he has to go to the intervention sometime, he's bound to have the same problem. Who's going to let him go, based on what basics he's going to get out of work and whether or not someone has to let him go, which can lead to a jam in the system. These must be good examples, I'd like to welcome the same, here we go, so we're on our way here with a little debate. I believe that even more worry about it will lead especially to this Fire Department Act that I think is now going into some kind of pre-discussion. It's my opinion that maybe we should solve it the way we used to, or still, I mean. He still has that military obligation. I think the importance of this area is similar to that of regulating military obligations and the obligations of some employers to release their employees if there is a need if they are military bonds, I think that such a principle should also apply here to civil protection but also to fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103678	Thank you. Next to discuss Ljiljana Cvetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103679	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. The principle note to the proposal of the Civil Protection System Act concerns the obligation to set up units of civil protection, headquarters, the making of evaluations and plans and other obligations which we hold to be prescribed only for counties and larger cities and possibly for those environments where there are specific hazards identified by the county assessment. For municipalities and smaller cities there is no point in imposing such a commitment because it has been shown in practice that smaller environments are unequished and have no capacity or expertise in these jobs, nor can they deal with these problems in the event of disaster and major accidents. A disaster never affects just one unit of local self-government, but usually more. Then anyway, the county headquarters and other mechanisms are involved. Co-ordination operations in the event of an accident or disaster in smaller areas may be carried out by the chief with his communal societies, professional services and firefighters. This bill covers only one and a single European emergency number 112 and ignores the remaining emergency service numbers according to the numbering plan, which have the same importance as 112. We therefore propose that the article 39, which provides for the obligation to highlight the notice of a single European emergency number 112 is also added to the visible location of the 192, fire department 193, emergency medical services 194, search and rescue services at sea 195. The supervision of law enforcement is prescribed through as many as 11 articles, which is more than 10%, which we think is excessive. A large number of provisions should be part of a rulebook. Also the prescribed provisions are too rigid, the sense of supervision should be the primary counseling to address deficiencies and then to warn and punish. This is because civil protection jobs are in the jurisdiction of local and regional self-government and are not state-owned and supervised by a state body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103680	Thank you, too. Next up for the debate of Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103681	A number of good questions and good proposals have been opened through the debate here today, and I believe that the Deputy Minister has recorded it all and that this next reading will certainly take into account these important things that have been said here today. I will speak mostly from the experience of the firefighter and current president of the Croatian Fire Department but also from the timely head of the unit of local and regional administration. The main problem or experience that we have in these 15 years how much they've been working, or the last 10 years how much this National Protection and Rescue Authority has been doing, and I think that these experiences are valuable and that this should be taken into account when putting together or preparing this second reading right now, that is, the first so that these important things that are creating problems for us on the ground can be avoided. Primaryly, a fire organization, we heard here from a debate 150 years old and there are already generations of firefighters, knowledge and experience from the use of all world experiences very important and relevant for the system of civil protection that we are now preparing. I also think that the experiences we have from neighbouring countries of Austria and Germany that are examples, the examples of the work of a fire organization can also be those experiences to be implemented in this law. Key to what we are afraid of in the fire organization is this centralization of the system because we have bad experience these 10 years of the work of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue where the primary goal at the time we were in the MUP, the MUP has its jobs, obligations, tasks over its head and the fire organization has somehow been even more independent. At this time when we had these 10 years of this State Protection and Rescue Authority they dealt mostly with fire and prescribed and centralized the system and we simply had problems with that system daily. We heard here today from the debate of some mayors, the captain, that they are aware of that too. Why, because here's an example of schooling. We have a school in Zagreb that was founded in '59. And that school was a fire school, it turned into a school of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. When we asked and give organized in Osijek, Rijeka, Split training of firefighters, it cannot, people must come to Zagreb. Then when we asked for the school to move, it couldn't. I want to tell you, the system is centralized and it's not watched as the firefighters get what they need. So we try to solve these centralised experiences and not allow them to be re-implemented through this law. Training. Look here I will now move on to concrete articles as long as there is time left, I will not simply give as amendments but here since the Deputy Minister is here I believe he will respect what is bothering us. If you look at this centralization, you can best see it through Article 11. First, we are aware that civil protection is a system that must function in disasters and prepare in a peaceful state and inevitably separate the regular functioning of the system from that crisis system. And civil protection can only occur in crisis systems, so when it's a disaster. All prepared in peacetime but not interfere in the regular work of emergency services. When I speak to the rush service, I mean the fire department, the mountain rescue service, the Red Cross and all these other emergency services. And there's always been a problem for us because they impose solutions, regulations for the regular work of firefighters. The regular work of the fire department and these other emergency services is defined in local administration and self-government. Every unit of local self-government and regional ones in their area define the work of emergency services, pay it and are in charge. So there's nothing then the central government's central body for civil protection to interfere with regular work tomorrow. When I speak regularly, this is best seen in Article 11 where the head of the central government body received all the powers that Pharaoh could have. So if you see an item, maybe it's 10, here's that education, conducts education and training of members of the operational forces of the civil protection system and other participants. It must highlight those who do not have that education, formally and informally, and this is contrary to Article 23, because Article 23 defines that this civil protection system as training commands, because it is crucial that civil protection takes place at a time of crisis and disaster. And then this head, or central office, must prepare command and work commands in crisis situations, not operational units that already have their training and training, both formally and informally. There is no need for him to now prescribe as some Pharaoh to us education and training systems, establishing professional material conditions prescribed by an education programme that must be met. So let us in peacetime, in regular condition, continue what we have. We've got our training, we've got our own centers... we've got the certificates we've got at the world level, and now these certificates aren't working, now some kind of head is going to prescribe some new training programs. And who's gonna do this to him because the head can be a sociologist, a psychologist, I mean I don't insult anyone but someone has nothing to do with it. In the state administration there is a parallel system because the entire organisation in Croatia is a fire community, and the chief fire commander is in the State Department for Protection and Rescue. And then there's another parallel service, and apparently these people have to do something. There's no need for that because civil protection is in crisis. The government should appoint a chief fire chief and he is extended hands of the government, but not this way to resolve it. It gives consent to public institutions and legal persons for the implementation of education in the civil protection system. This must be resolved by education in the civil protection system. I appeal and beg it to be education only of these headquarters, commands that operate in these crisis situations because civil protection is for it, and it's not for it to train regular forces. And now is the question, further, giving approval to Andragogian employees. Look, it gives approval to Andragogian employees. So that the head of the state administration system will grant approval to Andragogian employees who have completed the andragogy, who know the system. So that's what I mean by even the Law on adult education. It means education because, look, the police and the military are part of the civil protection system in crisis situations. So it doesn't train or give consent to the head of the central office to the police or the military, but the firefighters are probably the weakest, although the firefighters are 150 000 in Croatia and there's no reason, and 60 000 operatives we've heard, 5,000 professional firefighters, now they're dealing with firefighters because firefighters have their own organized system. I've got a little time left, but all I want to say is what my colleagues said. Please and I believe that there is an understanding that the Croatian Fire Department is being put into the task force as a roof organisation, as an organisation that is according to the Constitution because there have also been claims by some, so the Constitutional Court has decided that the Croatian Fire Department and that the association must be fundamental to the summit. When it comes to Article 18 for these operational forces to be the Croatian Fire Department and also in this article later on in our heads when we have the heads of all other emergency services. Also, there's no ambulance said here. Because look, the public fire department is a public institution of a regional self-government unit or a local one, and emergency assistance is the same unit, the same public institution of a regional administration unit. But there's no ambulance anywhere. I know, it's said like they'll be regulated as the Ministry of Health and over that vertical, but there's no need because they're activated already in the first stage down, first when they get up, when any problem goes smaller, which then grows into a bigger one, there comes an ambulance. And the ambulance should be placed as metric as all of these services that we're here. I was already talking about thinking and calling for it to be placed that it must be the head of the government to the municipality at headquarters and that he, or his deputy, the smallest take over the coordination. They won't do professional work, but they have to cut off when it's important. They're the ones who can call on the phone and make some decisions there, making decisions is an important thing, and that's what they do. This fund should then be written that it must or accept what is said to introduce that percentage, which would be normal for us to have safe means, but we do not depend on understanding or misunderstanding of a unit leader of self-government. The second topic we couldn't open is state intervention units that were also established. You need to see what. These should be the most exclusive units. But when they grow old in ten years, they're old people, they won't be able to be elite troops. So they would have to be part of a system of public fire departments or some other units where they would be able to be refurbished over and over again, and that the state had security in a certain number of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103682	Thank you. We have two replicas. Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103683	Thank you very much. Comrade Sanader, I don't agree with you in one of the parts you said. You said to beg the fire department to enter the law with a saying. No, don't beg. You, as chairman of the Fire Department, should insist on it and ask for it to enter the law. But you gave me an answer to the question of what was the State Protection and Rescue Authority actually doing? I've been trying to find an answer to that question for many years now, and I haven't been able to, and now you've said that the state administration was the only one who was involved in the fire department. And it would be great if she was a fireman to promote him. But it's what you listed as a fireman in a way that subjugates him and actually shows some kind of bureaucratic chieftain that she's doing something, and firemen and some other institutions or associations were supposed to do it. You were talking about schooling. Well, don't be surprised about schooling. So we go to school agronomists now this time to learn how to spray fruit, how to spray corn and pay for it. Well, it's no wonder that, I don't know, a construction worker with a medium-speed carpenter's orientation will have to go take a test for working with a chain saw. Because he's probably at school like the fireman who's gonna be in the field, they're probably when he's educated and trained and he's pen-drinking it or he's removing some obstacle. And it is in this law a great danger to what you have warned and it will probably happen and we will again have a system that will kill the existing, and we will only write reports, reports, reports. I don't know who doesn't report it to anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103684	Thank you. Here's your answer. Next time, react faster. A microphone, a microphone from my colleague Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103685	I'd very much like to order what's strictly, but I'm not in that position. I know how the system works, but I know how important it is to the organization, and then it's better to try to solve it humanly if it can be solved and indicate that it's a problem like I know it is. And I believe that it will be understanding and that it will be classified. I wouldn't want trees and stones in the state administration, but it's real in either government and whatever the political option is, they're people who obviously didn't make it, they don't know what to do, so they see and there's some firefighters, so we're gonna deal with firemen. That's why I said what we said when we were in the M.P., the M.P. has too much to do, and then he let the fireman go and didn't interfere with the internal affairs, but he was supporting the fire department. As far as schooling is concerned, it would be good to say one thing. One who doesn't have education because we have some units of the Republic without protection that don't exist and now they need to be educated. Okay. Let's get them geared up and schooled, but it's a crucial subsidiarity. Here is the mention of subsidiarity but not being implemented, because for, for, you saw for two bodies, when two units of local self-government are reunited you need to give consent to this leader to join them. I mean a little bit more to let go, decentralize the system, leave the initiative to the units of local (regional) self-government, because here you are. While someone's the mayor, the mayor, and then the mayor needs someone to give orders. And when that one comes for the minister, he's smart. So let's let people go when they're down in the field and when they know there's a problem, there's a chance that we can decentralize the system. And here I gave you examples of where the system is seen to be further centralized, because you're the head of the central body now you know everything, and while you're there, you don't know anything. In that sense, I have appealed to you for this subsidiarity, i.e. giving meaning and importance down to the bar because they first come, they work first. And if they are, they haven't solved the problem then it becomes a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103686	Thank you. Miroslav Tudjman, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103687	Thank you. Comrade Sanader, I think what you said must be in the first regulations of this law that the regular work of emergency services is not the subject of this law, or the work of this Central Body of the Civil Protection System because it is impossible not to repeat all the arguments you have made since the education of any of this system, any fire department, the Red Cross, the Mountain Rescue Service, etc. but that it must be organised on the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. coordination occurs only in crisis situations. However, this principle should, in fact, be specified, because the other requirement that you said that these leaders of the Prime Minister, certain ministers, must also be involved and not that they can be involved precisely because of decision-making but that they should then define the area of their responsibility only during this period of crisis situations. But since it breaks then with the consequences they will make decisions in these situations to see how these consequences will then be resolved. I don't know the answer, because in some situations, we had an example here to dig up some canal or rash and rebuild it or the consequences and require additional financial commitments that is something that should at least be set up and solved by this law in principle. Because no situation can be predicted, the consequences of any situation to the end. So this principle seems to be crucial. Without that provision, I don't think this law should be passed. It means that this regular activity does not go into this, but that it also extends to the obligations of these heads of state institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103688	Thank you. Answer me, microphone buddy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103689	Sure, the key is that, we feel it on the ground, and that's why I was trying to put it on. It's not emphasized enough here. Because it's not an interest. I know how the mental set of our central bodies works, because they just want to master the entire system, and not act to be at peace, means when the time without an incident is being prepared. Because we don't have a script today, I don't know when Krško nuclear power plant gets hurt, but we have a scenario when some fire breaks out, and some services are already doing it. So that's very important, and here's hoping it'll be appreciated. And this for the leaders, here's what I said, and today we've talked a lot about it, not the goal here to make the leader answer because I think that was the mayor himself, has the mayor can be the auto mechanic that I don't insult anyone, the baker, the pharmacist as they sing, so anyone can be mayor, I know that, but he has the ability to decide. It's very important in these situations. Until Ostojic arrived in the flooded area, no one had a decision to make. You put that head of the Central Authority of the State for Protection and Rescue there but he can't get anyone. He will call the minister, the prime minister will not receive, the minister of someone who is in a good relationship with him who knows him, so he will get back to him. So that man can't make decisions. You put me for something, and I can't get to anyone, so what good is that to me? And that was the reason not to transfer us to those people the leaders of units of local and regional self-government but because I know that they have authority and that they can make a decision to dig through to the baggers that, bring it, give it to them. And if he doesn't have the funds, he knows where to get them. Only for that reason. And that's why they put the most professional people in headquarters. And that leader is the coordinator, he's not the manager, he's the coordinator, he just co-ordinates when he sees what needs are and gives orders, assesses, knows how much funds he has. But it's important that those strongest people lead you because then it's a guarantee that they'll succeed in that job. Here's the only reason, and not to charge them, they're certainly responsible, and if something happens and they're not here again, they're responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103690	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the Deputy Minister's proposal, here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103691	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, thank you, MPs and MPs. Now I would really thank you again in the end for these opinions, for the arguments on some different solutions, possible different solutions and those suggestions. Well, Mr. Sanader said at the beginning of his exposure before it needed to be sharpened a little bit. He pointed out the need to pass one of these laws, but he also pointed out the need to be further sharpened and I think in that direction we're going to do another detailed analysis and try to adjust it further. Why is it necessary for this law to be made the way it should be? Because, personally, it is our common interest to create a system of civil protection that will serve us all, not now, but tomorrow and the day after and perhaps for some distant future. And in the end, just for a little while, I wouldn't kind of refer to everything that was said in the debate because there was no need, it was all constructive and in order to move forward, not to go into some other debate. I would just for the sake of clarity say the funding that has always been expressed as some kind of problem nothing is transferred to local self-government units more than those obligations that have so far been under the current Protection and Rescue Act, nothing more. This law, however, also provides for the association of units of local self-government, predicts the possibility of creating funds whether we will discuss it in one way or another. Finally, he does not necessarily seek to set up a civil protection unit unless they show the need for it, and they believe that he will respond to certain challenges through the work of the municipal services they have, public enterprises, citizens' associations and so on, which they are already funding. That's all I'd like, and hopefully you'll all be more content with some possible future solutions together later or all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103692	Thank you too, Deputy. We have one replica, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103693	Well, very briefly, in which you have said the same thing only two suggestions. Just one question. The central state body did not respond, it was often mentioned, who is managing whom? That's it. And the proposal, please try to see that with the association of cities and municipalities and counties sits down once more to discuss this issue in detail and look at other situations and suggestions that might be. And also, with two institutions in Croatia that are most important in this body, and that is the Croatian Fire Community and that is the Croatian Red Cross once again sits down, see the capacities, potentials and try to put all this together into the system. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103694	Thank you. I thank everyone for the debate, thank the Deputy Minister. We'll vote later. For the rest of us, and for those who are not there, I want a nice weekend by Wednesday. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103695	Now we're going to decide on the points of the agenda. Proposal for a Civil Protection System Act, first reading, P.Z.E.BR. 796. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Civil Protection System Act 1 is hereby adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions shall be made to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 107 votes for, 4 abstentions and 4 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103696	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament and the appointment of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Croatian Parliament shall be the Proposer of the Decision, in accordance with Article 41. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act. Does the president want to explain the proposal? Here you go, President Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103697	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So last week, the Croatian Parliament's decision to appoint the current secretary, elect and appoint the current secretary, Slaven Hojski, to the State Election Commission, has led President of the Parliament to propose a new secretary to the Croatian Parliament. This shall be done in accordance with Article 41(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so he made such a decision and prepared it and you got it on the benches. As far as the reasons for the proposal to resolve the current secretary are concerned, there is nothing more to be said. As for the proposal for the appointment of the new secretary of the Croatian Parliament, as your colleague and colleague of the representative, you have the best recommendation in the resume of the candidate for secretary of the Croatian Parliament. But for the public's sake, I have to say that the respected Lidija Bagarić is an extremely professional person, highly educated, a doctor of science, has a university career, is not an addictive and an ear, she doesn't come to a better job. She has experience of how the Parliament works because she has been a representative in this term for two years. It is not about political career because it is a place at the University of Rijeka. As for her personal character, I noticed her as a representative here in the Croatian Parliament, not my school colleague, not my student colleague, not my family, and I think that's the best recommendation. It seems to me that the period we have to the end is relatively short to change something more significant, but we're going to try some things that I had a vision, and I still think I can do on that plan some things, we'll see. So I ask you to, in accordance with the proposal, I think it is justified, justified, that we have a professional, educated person, a person who is independent, who is not caught in a secretarial place and who has a secure place of return, that we can do our job for the benefit of all of you representatives of the Professional Service of the Assembly, but mostly for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-03-06-0.u103698	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate and I'm making a motion for adoption. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 4 abstentions, 13 against, have adopted a decision on the resolution of the Croatian Parliament's secretary and the appointment of the secretary of the Croatian Parliament. Before we continue to discuss the point we started this morning, while you are here to know that we will continue on Wednesday with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act, and now we are going to take a short break so that the first speaker can start the debate in peace. He will continue on behalf of HDZ club colleague Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, pal Cain.
