ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96412	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament according to the established agenda, but before opening the first item of the agenda, the respected representative Branko Vuksic has the usual hand in the air. Let's hear what's up?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96413	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament after today's workers on May 3rd, 350 are on strike and since it is about the company, I am asking the state firm for a 10-minute break on behalf of the club to report it to the public and to refer some questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96414	Honorable representative Damir Cain has the same hand in the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96415	Not about that, about the tourist slogan and about the compost in Buzet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96416	About what?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96417	Compositing in Buzet and tourist slogan, plagiarism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96418	Okay, the President of the Parliament can't get into the essence of an individual's interest. So we only have two hands, two topics I give a break. At 9.45 p.m. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic will present the position of the club's respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96420	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today the use begins, today begins for the great believers post, but many workers in Croatia have long given up what they otherwise believe in at the time of the use. The question is, what can Croatian workers do today to give up more? Unfortunately, they gave up, the government gave up the worker and did not work for the workers what they should do. We know when we adopted the Labour Act, when we discussed how the government treats workers, how employers treat workers. How is it possible to ask themselves, say, at union meetings abroad when the question is asked, how do you treat employers who don't pay their salaries, then ask, please, don't understand the question, and then ask the question again. Then I repeat the question of how you behave, there's no such thing. In a civilized world, there's nothing a worker does and doesn't get paid. And now what's most important? The most important thing is that the state says that an employer will have to go to jail if he doesn't pay his salary, and he can pay his salary. What about the state? Today begins with a strike of 350 people in the 3rd May Diesel motor production. These workers didn't get four months in a row of their salary, came neatly to work, but they didn't get paid. A year and a half before that, they get paid irregularly. So there are all those preconditions that are prescribed by the laws to open up bankruptcy, to open up a pre-demand settlement, but there's a possibility of someone going to jail, to lock someone up because they don't pay the workers. The state must pay off because 100% of the owner is Diesel's motor production on 3 May and it must carry out its obligations. But how can employers act according to the law, how can they not play laws when the state itself is playing the laws of those we bring here to the Croatian Parliament? This is just one more piece of evidence, several times we've interrupted the sessions because it's the only way for the workers to hear about them going on strike, that they're unhappy, that they're not getting paid, that the new 350 families are in an invisible position, that these people have nothing to pay the children for lunch, that they're potential hungry children in schools who know how to make fun of from this pay phone. The Croatian state doesn't know what to do with its assets. They did not privatise May 3rd, even though they swear to privatise anything that is privatized can and did not implement restructuring. What's that for? Will the Minister of Economy take any responsibility? Will someone in the government be held accountable when it is evident that he is not fulfilling his obligations? The 350 workers in Rijeka are today, tomorrow there will be a new 350 workers. We know what's going on with RIZ, we know what's going on with the Immunology Institute, we know what's going on with dozens of companies where workers work, they don't get paid. And now they should have faith in the rule of law. The question is, how do they acquire their rights, how do they trust the state when the state itself cuts off those workers? So the workers gave up everything, and the state gave up workers and 350 people who today's hunger strike has no perspective in this country because the government ignores those basic postulates that we brought here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96421	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament according to the established agenda, but before opening the first item of the agenda, the respected representative Branko Vuksic has the usual hand in the air. Let's hear what's up?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96422	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament after today's workers on May 3rd, 350 are on strike and since it is about the company, I am asking the state firm for a 10-minute break on behalf of the club to report it to the public and to refer some questions to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96423	Honorable representative Damir Cain has the same hand in the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96424	Not about that, about the tourist slogan and about the compost in Buzet.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96425	About what?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96426	Compositing in Buzet and tourist slogan, plagiarism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96427	Okay, the President of the Parliament can't get into the essence of an individual's interest. So we only have two hands, two topics I give a break. At 9.45 p.m. It's 9:00.35. Good morning fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. Before saying goodbye, I've seen two hands, three hands of counsel in the air. Now we're going to write that down. Honorable representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96429	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club for 10 minutes due to the state of the Croatian Railway System. We had a protest last week at Mark's square on Thursday. At the same time, the minister held a press conference denying the demands of workers and their allegations, to today's media confirm that workers are right and that the minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96430	All right, we got it. We'll take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96431	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96432	Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96433	Thank you very much. We are also looking on behalf of the HDSSB Club for 10 minutes, but because of the motherly relationship between HZ and Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96434	HH again?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96435	HH.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96436	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96437	For the same reasons Mladen Novak listed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96438	HH. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96439	HH.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96440	And the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96441	About opportunities in the Croatian economy and compos.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96442	Please, dear colleague, rise. Please! Dear colleague Cain, would you repeat this in the microphone for history? And get up, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96443	All right, all right. About economic opportunities in the Republic of Croatia and as gentlemen Club representatives are also looking for a few sentences about... [[Invader President: Can you stand up, colleague Cain?]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96444	Nothing's written down. Please rise and repeat. Come on, come on, come on, come on, That's it, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96445	Yeah, it was on. Nothing then, Mr. President, once again about the economic opportunities in the Republic of Croatia and higher demands from the HDZ Club to inform them about the current activities around the Buzet compost. Is he all right?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96446	Damir Cain. How am I supposed to call it one sentence from my colleague Cain? I'm not imaginative enough to put in one sentence. But I respect the demands under parliamentary practice. We'll take a break. At 9.50. Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of the List of Independent Representatives, the Honorable Representative Damir Cain, second topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96448	Yes, well said my predecessor that some things can only be heard if spoken from this pay phone. Yeah, the solution would probably be in this particular case for the Oily to take over the engine factory. The truth is, God and the Oilman ended up with some 340 million kunas last year, but they're busy, they're as busy as May 3rd. They received guarantees in 2014, 2015 from the Croatian State of more than 250m euros. And I guess if you go that way, that problem will be solved. But there's something I want to say here about Buzetska composta, the second time for this pay phone. And I call on this occasion and gentlemen of the MPs, I call on the DORH, I call on the police, I call on the PN SCOK, the judiciary to "understand if possible", the city government of Buzet, which pushes into the centre of Buzet or Buzetska ski, the largest compost of such a type in the Republic. a compost which should be 50 meters from the first houses, 500 meters from school, from kindergarten, from the hall, from playground, from hospital, from nursing home, Franečići settlements, Goričice, Kaini, 200 meters from Strpede, etc., etc. In one word, it's a crime to that area. So the vast majority of Buzecans are also looking for an advisory referendum, if the Labinians for Plomin Three can do coal, which I welcome and invite them to go out and vote against that energy, then we should do the same in Buzet. What we are against is, above all, the Spanish industry, but even more so, against contaminated capital. Now, whoever's supposed to invest, we're actually afraid they're not going to invest anything, they're just going to resell the right to build. So individuals who have or who have shut down at 10 off short companies around the world. So there's a gentleman... Now Mr. Stipančić and even some Dragan Vasiljevic, it says, is that Captain Dragan, who should be extradited to Croatia, at this point I do not know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's Stipanci? Its business activities are related to America, Ukraine, Great Britain, the Republic of Serbia, etc. So this team from Buzet is even mentioned around Milorad or Miodrag Dodig who has privileged foreign loans shared off to short companies. I call once again on PNUSKOK and DORH to show what capital is simply about. There is a lot of fragrant capital in Istria, in Buzet relatively small and therefore there is no need to poison it with such capital and this space. We're not going to say one word... In the heart of Buzet, we will not change international smuggling, I would say the soul of one of the most piety cities in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I also tell my Buzeans not to be caught on some, we'd say... the poly Saint Anton of 230 square squares that set up the compost, the largest compost of such type in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that what I said, just one sentence about this slogan Croatia full of life, full of life, in a people called to express myself full of shit. It is about one rude plagiarism, a copy stolen in the Croatian tourist community by some others. In one word, they violated all the principles of copyright. 15, 16 years ago, Tudjman expressly replaced the then Minister of Tourism because a single person was associated with the slogan. With the difference that the tourist community paid this slogan, this year it paid 2.8 million kuna and that slogan cost 12,000 kuna or 1500, 1600 euros. It is fortunate that the ladder is down to the ground so Minister Lorencin, Ivosevic, does not have to skip because in some other circumstances they would probably resign themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96449	Honorable representative Damir Cain on his subjects.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96450	And what do we Istrians say about the railroad? He told Mr. Bubalo to cut the lines in Slavonia, and with us in Istria, the entire railroads are cut. And as far as this main line of Buzet-Pula is going to exist, we're going to see it, but I know it won't be long. If, as Mr. Bubalo Maria Teresa said, she was the only one taking care of Slavonia, the only ones who took care of Istria were Franz Josef and after him, Joseph Broz Tito, who has been left these days and you would not be up in Pantovac. The entire infrastructure of gentlemen is laid down for Austria and Tito, not counting clearly this ipilon which is again financed from the budget and from the tunnel that was built during Tito. We're talking about the Peljesk Bridge, but we're not talking about a train tunnel through Učka. However, since the horror of the representatives asked me to inform you that we are standing with Compostana in Buzet, I must note that yesterday over 200 people at the primary school in Buzet clearly said no Compostani at 500 meters from the municipality, from school, from kindergarten, from playground, from nursing home, from the infirmary, from the largest settlements in Buzet. One resident and after that we parted yesterday, about this is how he described the situation. I don't know if you know what Buzet looks like in that sheath as we would say, it's about like owning a 50-square apartment and deciding to live in that apartment with a handful, about like that. You Dalmatians know what animal it is, the coasters know, the Istrians know, and let those from the continent just ask around. The other thing I'm trying to say is whether this country is being recovered or not. Something modest is happening, but it is certain that Croatia has no predisposition, so he said, my mother told me so, it is as if you live in one apartment with a handful. And what now, and after that, we parted, and it was clear to people. What's going on in this country? We're just going round and round and round and round when it doesn't work, and then we see that we're getting shot by a Pantovchak, so I'm going to call it Mark's square. Gentlemen behave like children with that difference that when a child is played, you give him that gun on the water, you give him the ball, and if it breaks anything, but these gentlemen are given to lead, the management of the state, so they have no right to play with the state. Since the beginning of the crisis in 2009, which is why I decided on this topic, I have lost, today I have read, 208 744 workers or jobs. We've got 1.3 million employees, public debt is likely to be nearly 300 billion kuna. Before the crisis in 2009, it seems to me he was maybe 50 billion kuna, something like that. Before the 50 billion kuna crisis. The fact is that in the public sector on the other hand, the crisis employs 22,000 people here, and here we have no 208,000 people. What's fortunate is that interest is on the euro market today relatively low, and here we buy time. Clearly, tight interest rates and in Croatia should follow that logic and they must be radically destroyed overnight. I couldn't believe this morning I read this data that one Greece has a GDP in 2014 of 18 146 dollars, Croatia 10 454, Slovenia 18 634 dollars. However, it should be noted and this is positive that industrial production grew by 3.6% last year, exports of 8.4%, 0.3% increased net wages, why, because the salary has become less and then these in public services raise the average, 2.6% increased trade traffic. So the growth of GDP in 2015 could happen, but clearly we need everything today, from investments, and from Compostane but not in that place, from effective administration, from cheaper loans, from lower taxes, from decentralisation, from local self-government reform, from state administration reform, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96451	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You're out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96452	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u96453	Thank you, too. It's very difficult to sum up the performances today in one grade, and I have to because this is completely out of the Rules of Procedure. ... But it is in accordance with the practice in the Croatian Parliament and practice we can change if we agree, but let me be free that this conference is a press conference of club representatives in the Croatian Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Conference for the Public Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And besides that, my colleague Cain has connected, but let me qualify that in a mild way now, he has connected the scrip, Učka tunnel, Pelješki bridge, interest, Franz Josef, Tito, and what the citizens of Croatia will now call it, I will help them. It's called a satire discussion. I'm laughing. It's called a satire discussion, and I don't want to disturb it, because they've adopted that MPs have the right to a press conference. So it's my duty to call it what I feel when he has a chance to say what he wants from the pay phone. Please, colleagues, I know it's an election year and we want to introduce ourselves to the Croatian public. But what we've left for the citizens for the last three years can hardly change. We can try, but I trust the citizens that they know everything very well. Thank you very much. We're not in a banana. We know who's in a banana. Don't pull my tongue. I think we can continue with the established agenda according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues. Since, in the standard and practice of the Croatian Parliament, there is no right of replication, nor the reply of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is always in a delicate situation that no one reacts to spoken views or spoken words. I think that the Assembly speaker needs to hear and hear different views, critical assessments, but that the task is to build all of us and systems, so the principle solutions that will apply to everyone. And every MP and chairman bears the responsibility politically for the spoken word from the constituency, and some already have experience to bear responsibility for the damages that have taken place. This should be taken into account when presenting personal views on matters in Croatia. However, the Assembly speaker serves to make citizens’ representatives appear and say what they think. We'll keep practice but I'm obliged to say this. Thank you very much. Now, according to the established agenda, we are scheduled to do four agenda points, set agenda, go to item 1: - Final draft law supplementing the Law on the representativeness of employers' and trade unions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 788; The Proposer of this Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the Government Representative, the Proposer, want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100536	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is a brief amendment to the law on the representativeness of associations, employers and trade unions. Following the Law on the Representativeship of Associations, Employers and Trade Unions, it entered into force on 8 August 2014. The law lays down the criteria and procedure for determining the representativeness of the union for collective bargaining and cases in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia appoints the negotiating committee of employers. Therefore, the law stipulates that collective bargaining for collective bargaining of collective agreements contracted with the rights of employees, which are provided in the state budget or in the Treasury. The negotiating committee on the employer's side must be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The legal framework is currently under way in the process of negotiating amendments and supplementing the collective agreement in the activities of health and health insurance. As HZZO was within the state budget of the Treasury by 1 January 2015, it negotiated a negotiating committee appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for talks on a collective agreement in health. Since the basis of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act is set out in the Treasury, from that date the funds for the work of public health institutions are no longer provided from the State budget or the Treasury, but from their own incomes and resources of HZZO. With that date, the negotiating committee was appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the conclusion of a collective health contract the basis of the provision of Article 13(1) of this Law lost its mandate and the power to continue negotiations. In order to allow for the continuation of negotiations in this extremely important public service, it was necessary to supplement the current provision of Article 13(1). The law on the representativeness of employers' and trade union associations and to comply with the Public Service Payments Act. In particular, if it is still possible to collectively negotiate at the level of each individual employer, i.e. at the level of each individual public institution, with a view to the uniformity of labour standards of sustainability and coherence of the entire public health system, it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to retain its powers on the course of negotiations on the working-legal position of all employees in that Constitution guaranteed, particularly an important part of the social security system of citizens. In this respect, it is proposed to amend and supplement the provisions of Article 13(1). The law on the representativeness of employers' and trade union associations, which will allow for the continuation of the collective agreement on health and health insurance in a way that is subject to a collective agreement by a negotiating committee authorised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I hope the law gets the support of all clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100537	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have one replica, Vice President of the House, Honorable Representative Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100538	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, I was hoping that when this Law on Change and Complementarity of the Law on the Representativeship of Employers and Trade Unions is changed, it will finally be resolved and the problem that exists and we are all aware, which I must especially stress that I am aware of as a doctor and also as a minister and a doctor, and this is the fact that, regardless of the fact that the Croatian Medical Union as well as some other trade unions has been present for decades in social dialogue and collective labour relations of the Republic of Croatia, this situation will be interrupted where this union is excluded from the circle of trade unions that have powers for collective bargaining, of course, and the right to strike and all together. The union, which represents about 14000 doctors in Croatia, cannot be completely and must not be represented by trade unions that are largely composed of other health workers. Not downplaying their importance for the functioning of the health system, it is entirely inappropriate for trade unions whose membership is largely unhealthy workers are often those of health care, but who are involved in parks, say, maintenance of cars, cleaning, etc., to represent the views of specialists doctors, university professors, primarius etc. As it would be inappropriate for sisters to represent doctors, it would be inappropriate for doctors to represent sisters, but it is absolutely also inappropriate for the rest of the unhealthy staff from the administrative repeat to the one who regulates parks and cars to represent doctors and we hoped that this would be amended by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100539	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100540	Thank you very much. In the collective bargaining process, the most important cooperation of the unions is, and therefore, this law on representativeness is just about making a circular union scene and that when it comes to negotiations, everyone negotiating with their employer. Therefore, the claim that the Medical Union is excluded from the negotiations does not stand because the law makes it very clear that if the trade unions agree with each other, then automatically all trade unions become representative and all negotiate, so no matter how many members they have. Therefore, this law does not prevent the Medical Union from participating in the negotiations, and I hope that everything that has happened in the negotiations before I hope and remain behind us and that the trade unions will sit and agree because it is one of the postulates, that means that the trade unions agree with each other and that they uniquely appear to the employer, in this case the Government of the Republic of Croatia is clearly protecting both primary rights of their members, and on the other hand the government will be clear respect and the rights of all health workers. And as far as I can see, collective bargain negotiations alone respect the specificities of individual professions. Therefore, the Law on Representativeness does not exclude the Medical Union. Trade unions can and should sit together and agree and perform jointly towards the employer which gives them more power than when they are divided.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100541	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, Comrade Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100542	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. About this, a small law, amending the Law on Representativeness, the Association of Employers and trade unions that this minister says should allow for a continuation of collective bargaining and a collective contract in health and health insurance. It is true that the minister said that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute with 1.1 came out of the Treasury and out of the state budget and clearly that within that, the provisions of this law, when it comes to the negotiating committee, did not give powers to the negotiating committee that has been appointed so far for collective bargaining. But here I must point out several important facts, that the current Law on Representativeship in the same Article 13(2) also allowed public institutions to then appoint a negotiating committee in public institutions as head of the central body of the state administration. So this is kind of a precedent, because then clearly the other public institutions might ask to be in the same position. There is a clear Croatian Employment Service, there is a Croatian Pension Insurance Institute which would then also have the right to be practically appointed by the government as a negotiating committee. Because clearly when the Government appoints a negotiating committee it is in some way a stronger negotiating committee and it narrows down the right of the leaders of these public institutions to do so. Okay, we can understand that health care is special, clearly that we are all sensitive if there are certain problems in health care, so God forbid there's both strike and dissatisfied workers working there and it's kind of good to collectively negotiate, good to achieve a collective contract. But then it should have been pointed out because of this particular interest that it is then and the reason why the Government in this case appoints a negotiating committee and why we are amending this part of the law. Something I would also like to say, which applies to this law, which is also about collective bargaining. The biggest problem is about a law that regulates and which is the subject of a dispute between negotiators, which is the issue of the salary fee of 4, 8 and 10%, which is the right to be denied by law. And by law, it was valid until 31.12.2014. What is behind this is the question that the government regulated the regulation and denied it until 31.3 this year. And now I'm asking myself a question. If something is the subject of collective bargaining where all sides should be in the same position as why the government went with that mechanism in the first place to bring the regulation and kind of narrows this space down. This means that this possibility opens up for us as quasi, we negotiate, we talk, we negotiate, and basically the government on the basis of and its own in this case, the negotiating committee will have a clear position. Because in this same case, the government also passed the regulation and practically extended the legislation for another 3 months. So in some ways, we have a question on the one hand that is being asked by the government, and on the other hand we have the authority of this government appointed by the negotiating committee, and in what position are trade unions when they have to negotiate. I don't think that's fair in collective negotiations, that all sides should have the same conditions in collective bargaining. And something that I still have to draw attention to when it comes to the law, which is a matter of consultation with the interested public. And this law, the amendments to this law were published on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System and the public debate on this was until 5 February 2015. And counting on the fact that the Government sent this law to the parliamentary procedure at my session on January 29th, I ask simply this is a question of what kind of debate was with the interested public which lasted until 5.2. and the government has already referred this bill to the parliamentary procedure. I don't think that's good, I think that the government shouldn't allow such a thing primarily when it comes to what I said about a very sensitive area and inside it clearly I can understand on the one hand that it's good to collectively negotiate, that it's good to agree but then we can't behave like this and practically not respect that procedure that's prescribed. I'd like a few more things to do when it comes to the Law on Representativeness just look back, which is that when we passed that law and today in its part of the replica, the minister said that the law's intensity is the circulation of the union. I must say that when we passed this law we had 308 unions registered at national level, today we have 311 trade unions registered at national level. I know there were 313 unions at the local level, as many as there are today, I don't have that information. It means that the intensity of this law doesn't go to that end that we practically talked about when we passed the Law of Representativeship, and it's not exactly what was the point of rounding up the unions. On the other hand, it was said here about the health care system that I could see the number of unions somewhere in that part of the 15 unions that work in health care. Clearly, when we talk about representativeness then it was also said here about doctors that doctors had lost that position of representativeness. And regarding his status on some estimates and calculations, they would, based on the 12.5 thousand doctors employed in health care, have to have more than 8,000 members in order to be a representative union at all, and which is a very large percentage somewhere around 70% would have to be organized through the union so that they could even achieve their status in such a way as to be related to collective bargaining and related to what makes them successful and successful. Because we also have to deal with some data that according to some of the data that I've come up with in health care, about 73,000 workers have been employed, that there are about 56 thousand in the health care sector itself, and 17 thousand is somewhere technical and administrative. And now only when we compare that part of the doctor's relationship to the total number of healthcare workers is 17% they do, and when it comes to this part of the healthcare workers, it's a slightly higher percentage, 22.5%. And when we count membership, then that part of representativeness doesn't come true. Which I think is a shame because according to this data we have somewhere around 50 doctors are going abroad monthly. Clearly, in some countries there are much higher salaries, some experts can find jobs in part of the Nordic countries, at 5,000 euros each. Which is clear that here in Croatia, through my part of the job, I cannot accomplish. And in the end, I would only look at one part, and it is not directly representative, but as regards collective bargaining and the provisions of the Labour Act that we warned about, and as of 8 February, the extended application of collective agreements ended and some 30,000 workers lost certain rights that they had through collective agreements, and as regards the activities covered by the collective contract in construction, collective contract in catering, collective contract in travel agencies and collective contracts in the activities of the wood and paper industry. Clearly, the loss of that right are those workers if they do not have in their work contracts regulated or if they work with those employers who employ less than 20 workers can come to minimum wage, which is not good and is not a good intensity precisely in that as much collectively as possible. But that part of the border industry being covered as much as possible with collective agreements. Because it clearly provides certain safety of work but also gives a certain quality of distribution and quality reward for each worker. Croatian Labourists, because of certain observations that come from the Doctors' Trade Unions and also from the Association of Workers' Unions, and on the other hand, respecting this part that health care is very important to be covered by a collective agreement we are not against it, but because there is no consensus with the trade unions that we are together in some way when it comes to amending certain laws that concern and that in that part of the unions are not reached about this law we will be abstentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100543	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have a replica, Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100544	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear fellow Tušak, I agree with the great majority of what you said. It moved me to a replica of two things. It's one thing when you mentioned consulting an interested public and completely inadmissible practice to leave it for a few days, and you said it was a schlamper that should not be allowed. I'd say it's not about the schlamper. It's about the method of work. Because if you look at a whole series of other regulations and laws, there is a constant violation of that provision on how and how consultation with the interested public should be conducted, and unfortunately no one reacts to it, and that is how it goes. The other thing is, you mentioned it and you referred to what the minister said in his reply to my line, so I have to say that it is not true that the views of the doctor and the medical union in the collective negotiation were taken into account and that was the problem. In fact, although it sounds very nice that the unions should agree with each other, we are all aware that the specific interests of individual unions are one fact and that these interests are different sometimes and that the illusion is to argue that the unions will agree on everything and then they are to negotiate equally with the government that is in agreement because it represents a common interest. And it is very clear that there will be no harmonisation of the different interests of individual unions and that it actually serves to break the union scene. And that should be said very clearly, and unfortunately it continues to try and this law will continue or will not change.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100545	Thank you very much. I can see from a conjugal act that my colleague Tušak will respond. You didn't pick up, you did, okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100546	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, I picked up the tile. When it comes to consulting an interested public, then not only did I say it was part of a schlamper, but it is also a false message sent to the public that the government and the ministry are not fulfilling obligations. What does it mean to send such a message to the public? This means that others can act against their obligations, which is why it is our obligation here in the House to point out these problems and to set things up as prescribed. And when you talked about the interests of the union and that they are different clearly that there are competitions within the unions, clearly there is a fight between the unions, and clearly there is a question of whether someone will be kidnapped or achieve some kind of success and put part of the union in an unfavourable position. Therefore, the laws should be as fair as possible and have some normal limits and normal conditions for all those serious unions that mean it, this is important in a particular activity where collective agreements are concluded, allowing collectively to negotiate in good faith. Whether an agreement can be reached at last or not is probably best agreed on when neither party is completely satisfied, means that they have succeeded in a way somewhere in the middle and arranged something for mutual satisfaction but primarily for those they represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100547	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100548	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, Tušak, you said that health care is special and that health care is of special interest. That is true, we saw it last week when we discussed the hospital system and when they expressed their desire to improve this health system and all the efforts that would be made to reduce that waiting list. And it's all good, but it's safe in that chain that doctors are an infinitely important link and they all say it well many times, all good, but they get many times and different epithets that they're unemployed, they're like this, they're like this. And now we hear from the minister who is the same doctor says they have the right to collective bargaining. The Croatian medical union doesn't think so. The Croatian Medical Union has repeatedly warned that the proposer has also disobeyed the recent practice of the European Court of Human Rights, which undoubtedly leads to the existing organisation of the union's representativeness for collective bargaining against the sources of international law. It also testifies to the 27th November verdict of the European Court of Human Rights where it is said that the right to freedom of association has been violated. This, therefore, came from that instance, and in that part should not be too wise to contact such institutions again safely and after such a proposal. So it doesn't talk about the kind of importance of doctors in which a lot last week, in a full mouth talked and now it's kind of being denied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100549	Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100550	Thank you, Mr. President. Is colleague Milinkovic fully agree with you and I when we say that health care has a special status in our society and clearly that when it comes to health care on the one hand, doctors, nurses, and everyone else who works in health care certainly has their own humanitarian activity to do as well as possible for citizens who are health care users, and on the other hand these users need to feel comfortable and well when they need to benefit and not when we have these waiting lists, and for some diagnosiss and for some tests it has to wait, clearly that it does not benefit anyone. But we have in that system and certain other problems that we really need to talk about, and that's, I was a witness sometimes when the Internet system falls so the recipes don't work anymore, so people go to the pharmacy, they can't pick up their meds, so the phones are working, so the phones are blocked, so the nurses they do can't answer, so the overall anxiety is created in the health care. Do we need all this together? This all costs very much to the citizens, and clearly when we talk about special status, we need to make sure that this activity is covered in quality with a collective contract, that it stands clearly at every job that the specific obligations are and that each job is well rewarded according to what they do, which is a question of collective bargaining and those things that will be achieved by collective agreements.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100551	Thank you very much. It is the Club of Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100552	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Mr. Representatives, the Honorable Minister. Yes, just before my predecessor Mr. Zlatko Tušak said that until recently on the ground of the Republic of Croatia at national level, 308 unions were active, today to allegedly act 311. He mentioned that at local level 313 unions operate, that we have 15 unions in health care. So if it's possible to connect these unions at national level and add unions to them locally it's about 614 union branches. Absolutely with all those who spoke here health care deserves collective contracts. Now, does this number of unions have anything to do with what Professor Rainer was talking about with the breaking of the union scene or on the other hand with some luxuriant interests of the people who run these union branches, it's clearly costing it. We can even say freely that the union has 5.6 times more than political parties in the Republic of Croatia. What is prescribed by this law? In order to be precise, it means to allow for the continuation of public health and health insurance negotiations to be carried out with this addition to the current provision of Article 13(1). The law on the representativeness of employers' and trade union associations is in line with the Public Service Payments Act, which said that the issue of salaries and material rights of employees in public institutions who are provided for in the HZZO by collective agreements concluded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Although it is still possible to collectively negotiate at the level of each employer or at the level of each individual public institution in order to balance labour standards, sustainability, consistency of the entire public health system, it is necessary for the Government to retain its powers on the course of negotiations on the working legal position of all employees in this certainly one of the vital or key in order to say the resources available to the Republic of Croatia. So we're talking union representation here. Where on the other hand are the unions working? They work mostly in state services, which means what we can say to build-up from local communities, utility companies and beyond, that is, those privatized companies from the '90s. In those small companies that employ one, two, five workers maximum, and who employ up to 600,000 people in the Republic of Croatia and where I dare say to myself, the owner may not be more comparable than the employee himself, the union clearly does not. He would even dare to say that a man who did not run such a single company that has 1,2,3.5 employees does not really know what it means to survive on the Croatian market in a roundup of such a political and business mix. I think the government must simply understand those little, little people. 182,000 jobs have been lost since the start of the crisis in the Republic of Croatia. In the term of Sanader-Cosor somewhere around 112 or 120 thousand people, in three years our government has 70,000 people. In the first month, 329,426 unemployed were registered in the stock market, which is 50 thousand less than in January 2014. Now how during that period the number of employees according to HZMO applications decreased by 3,000 is the whole question, where is the difference from 47,000 workers in the Republic of Croatia? And it's supposed to be tens and tens of thousands, maybe as many as 40,000 people that left or went across the border in 2014. In Germany alone, it went on the basis of work permits until the 10th month last year, 18 thousand people, and for other countries we have no such data. We count that only Istria County, which has lost about 8,900 jobs since the start of the crisis in 2008 until the end of 2013, is more than it is employed in the tourist sector, means that only Istria left last year and went the way of Austria, Italy, Canada, I don't know more than 2,000 people. Little craftsmen have remained here since the start of the crisis without 73,000 jobs, and I don't think any of us can say that it's the workers, that it's the manipulators, that it's the quitters, etc. The fact is, the crisis in the Republic of Croatia is taking too long. People who, in the early 1990s or late '80s, were 30, 35 years old, 40 years old, who began to develop into a business of change, today under the quotes of social order have over 55 years, 60, 65 years old and often talking to them is just my impression, of everything they want to escape, only if they could, if simply their entire assets weren't burdened with loans to business banks. In one word, the crisis has eaten these people the best of years. On the other hand, I said what's the best quality of leaving this country is supposed to be the last year of 40,000 people. I'm afraid so many more people can leave this country and in 2015. It's just that people are leaving, my friends or my friends' children, and I doubt they have any intention of coming back. It is unfortunately Croatia, indeed, that we are left without people, without what is best, which is most potential. And if there were no Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Bosnia and Herzegovina, that reservation from which Croatia fills these gaps because of the departure of our people, I'm afraid we would be much, much worse. I'm very glad to have or be happy to have a strong union scene, to have a representative union scene. Life today is very different from what it shows because there's a lot on its knees, there's workers on their knees, there's small employers on their knees. They can only exist here, especially when it comes to small people working with the state, working with utility companies, with state companies, with local self-government. What's on the market is almost there's no future. I don't know, the whole country is in trouble, I don't know, in the last 25 years in Istria if it's built five new hotels, on the whole Adriatic 10, there in the 1990s it's been built in a year by 20 or more hotels, from Savudria down to Caftat. Investments are going down and they must be 50% less today than they were before the crisis, etc., etc. I'm glad you talked about the engine factory in Rijeka in the morning, mostly all the investments that are going on in the country are from the budget. We have the same situation right now in Labin 159 people will probably be out of a job because the Bennett factory from Labinstino is moving to Osijek. Exactly Plomin 3 could be employed in the construction phase between 800 thousand people after the construction of about 200, but we said that we would not, therefore, have to take responsibility for such a decision. But I agree, health has no alternative. We have Mirna who, due to the history of the disease, can't stand on her healthy feet, come on, the Oilman mentioned earlier has orders, there are serious losses in the last year, and this small sector doesn't know if she can survive at all. Where do people finally get jobs in years of crisis? Only in the public, municipal sector or services. So it is, while on the one hand, the number of employees was reduced by 187,000 in that, I would say, employs about 22,000 new workers in the upgrade. All in all, absolutely for the maximum strong union movement, for the union movement that will change Croatia under quotes, for a union movement that will force the authorities to change their relations with employers. It is clear that we are all for this collective bargaining in health, we are for strong unions in health and I think this law is like something that could simply be expected because the government cannot be excluded from this collective negotiation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100553	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of Parliament, Željko Reiner, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100554	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Cain, you've talked a lot about leaving young people, especially young people and middle-aged people leaving Croatia with bread. If we quote the Austrian newspaper Der Standard which published some two weeks ago the information that about 800 Croatian doctors left Croatia in search of a better future and I stress these are mainly finished doctors, often specialists who leave not alone but rarely with their families. Then the dimension of the problem for Croatian health care is fully visible. Does anyone think that by not changing the fact that the Croatian Medical Union cannot participate independently in the negotiations, it will contribute to stopping the exodus of Croatian doctors. If anyone wants to reduce the loss created by the departure of Croatian doctors from the homeland by talking about the fluctuation of the frame, that someone else will come, etc., then it is a clear truth, a clear untruth and will not come, it will certainly not come as qualified doctors as those educated in Croatia if they come at all. Therefore, this is a huge problem, which I repeat by not changing the current situation, the Croatian Medical Union cannot participate independently in negotiations and represent the interests of doctors who are sometimes different from the interests of both sisters and other healthcare professionals, from administrative to technical staff, etc. We will only contribute to what you were talking about, the exodus of Croatian doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100555	Thank you, too. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100556	Yes, if this information is correct that 800 doctors have recently left the Republic of Croatia, then it is a terrible problem for both the Republic of Croatia and every resident in this country. It's like we gave Austria, Germany, Finland, Canada, a few billion euros, but that's not the biggest problem. An even bigger problem is that these 800 specialists, etc. Maybe three or four generations of schooling in our colleges and the void will certainly be terrible. Yes, once again, this information that we had 329 426 unemployed on the stock market a month ago, that's 50,000 less than in January 2014, but 3,000 people checked in at the Pension Insurance Office and it's really asking the question where those 47,000 people are. Many simply say that over 40,000 people are of the highest quality, the most potent that this country has gone or left the Republic of Croatia and is trying to find itself in a third country. What is doubtless, that only last year until the 10th month, Germany issued 18,000 work permits, is assumed by the end of the year 22,000, while for one Finland, Denmark, Sweden, Ireland, Canada, etc. We don't have any data at all. The problem is serious, because of the doctor's situation, it may be the most romantic situation and with all these other professions because I just don't know how many six to seven years of crisis people just can't take anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100557	We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the SDP club of Croatia and the respected representative of Hrvoje Nekic. Here you go, colleague Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100558	President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Yes, the most important thing is the union's co-operation in the collective bargaining process. The relevant Law on the Representativeship of Employers and Trade Unions was adopted on 18 July 2014, however, on 1 January 2015, the HZZO was detached from the state budget of the Treasury and since then the funds for the work of public health institutions have been no longer provided from the state budget, or the Treasury, but from its own incomes and funds of HZZO. In order to allow for the continuation of public health and health insurance negotiations, the current provision on the representativeness of employers' and trade union associations is in line with the Public Service Payments Act, which said that the issues of salaries and material rights of employees in public institutions provided for by HZZO funds are governed by a collective contract concluded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Although it is still possible to collectively negotiate at the level of each individual employer, at the level of each public institution, in order to balance labour-legal standards, sustainability and coherence of the entire public health system, it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to retain its powers on the course of negotiations on the working-legal position of all employees in that Constitution guaranteed, particularly an important part of the social security system of citizens. These are technical amendments to the law, this is a alignment with the changes that took place with the release of the HZZO from the budget and the SDP club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100559	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of Parliament, Željko Reiner, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100560	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, esteemed counterpart Nekic, you've convinced the government's explanation of why he's doing it, but I must ask you a question at once. If it is true that this regulation seeks to adapt to changes in HZZO financing by having HZZO isolated from the State Treasury, what we will do with all those employees who work in KBCs, who still belong to the Treasury, which I must say inconsistencies, whatever I think, whether leaving the Treasury is good or not. But certainly what wasn't good, which we pointed out then, is that it's inconsistencies because KBCs didn't get out of the treasury, how now we're going to solve this problem if the argument is that this is all done because most of the hospitals came out of the treasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100561	Replica response, the respected representative of Hrvoja Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100562	As I said to my colleague Reiner, union cooperation is most important in the collective bargaining process, and as much as it's being said here that someone is being denied from negotiating, I would really add that no one, but really no one is preventing the Medical Union from participating in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100563	Thank you very much. Honored representative Goran Maric on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100564	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ministers with a co-worker, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. When a law is amended then it must be and should be the result of the deficiencies observed in the application of a certain law and in order to avoid these perceived shortcomings should be systematically approached by the adoption of the law. And if other laws are amended by some law, then it should be harmonised and prepared to bring them all together at the same time because they are only technical things of harmonisation. But every system should be coherent and functional, so it's the most spoken here when it comes to the Law on Representativeship of Associations and Employers and trade unions on the health system and why they are excluded from social dialogue. I think it was when this law was already changed that there were needs because of the perceived shortcomings to change it because they were involved in social dialogue, and this technical matter was supposed to change two months ago. And sometimes someone remembered that they should pay the wages, so that they can't, they need to change the law because they can't pay by the existing laws. The health system is one of the best systems in the country. Imagine at 3:00 a.m., someone gets hurt, they're in the hospital in 20 minutes, they're in surgery, and his life is saved. And to change the number or connection of some in the city's company or local self-government company it takes you a month, a hundred memos and never wait for what you're looking for. And then from these companies, it's very rare for someone to leave because they're comfortable working and living like that. And where life is saved, it's the most educated, the most competent, the most responsible and on which this system is based. The system is threatening to leave them, and apparently a crowd has gone away. And not only are doctors leaving, there are very often cases that partners who are unemployed in Croatia go abroad together with doctors. Excellent for some. Less will be at the Employment Service if we are to reduce the number of unemployed, then we will not get to a good level. It does not exist in Croatia, there is no system based on so much professional and intellectual infrastructure, human infrastructure such as the health system. Although we're legally jeopardizing him, and we're jeopardizing him because it's an exact empirical data, then we should react. Who should have more understanding for doctors than doctors? I can't imagine if the secretary by calling the architects would propose the Law on Depravation, the chamber of architects. I don't know how it would end. What doctors, especially hospital doctors mean to all of us, to the functioning of society in general. What the defenders did in the war is something similar to what doctors did in peace, with the same doctors and defenders in the war. The defenders saved our lives in the war, the doctors save our lives in peace and so dedicated, so conscious that I don't know if there's any system that's more orderly, that rests on bigger human infrastructure. But the only problem is the government's relationship with them and the management of these systems, and that's the easiest thing to do. The hardest thing to do is to create human potential. And when created for years, mathematicians can be top-notch after first year of study. He can be a top expert, mathematician, physicist when he's 24. But a doctor can't be top-notch when he's 24. He can't be a top surgeon when he's 28 years old. It takes a lot, a lot of work, a lot of practice and life experience. And just when we create so many of them, then we forbid them to participate in social dialogue and that's why many leave. There is no judgment from Strasbourg where she was convicted, or given the right to strike the doctors, that the court was wrong when he denied the right to strike the doctors. For this one misunderstanding, i.e. the need to understand the specificity of a medical call, and I do not know if there is anyone who will say that a medical call is not a specific call, that we have no understanding that they have a professional collective contract. I think that's how much we should show our appreciation for them. They, for one, have been violated the right to freedom of association when they are banned from the right to strike. That's why we were, the HDZ Club was against the proposal for a law on the representativeness of the employers' and trade unions' associations when it was passed and can't even be about amending that law that is in the structure against it. And when the Minister and Government come up with a proposal that will include and appreciate the specificity of the medical call and hospital doctors and thus make it clear that the price and their work will support such a change, but this one will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100565	Thank you too, fellow Maric. We have five replicas. Let's get this straight. Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, Željko Reiner's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100566	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow Maric, of course, I agree with everything you said and I thank you on behalf of the doctor for truly nice words of the doctor's efforts and their concern about the lives and health of Croatian citizens. I have to point out once again, however, that the story that unions need to agree on each other is fairy tales. And we all know that, if we want to admit it, and if we all want to admit it, we know that it's impossible to achieve it because it's really individual interests... and in certain areas such as health care, that the interests of administrative staff are different from the interests of the physician. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is normal that even the interests of the most co-workers of doctors and sisters in some segments are different. However, we have a situation in which sisters can and it is justifiable that they can represent their interests. We have a situation that all other health workers can, too, represent their interests. But we don't give it to doctors, but we say that they have to deal with everyone else that I'm stressing again, sometimes they have different interests, and only if they agree, will it be okay, and if they don't, they're free to represent them. Well, the logic of that is about the same as saying here now that we're not going to pass and we can't pass any law unless the position and opposition agree. How many laws do you think we'd pass? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100567	Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100568	Thank you very much. My colleague Reiner, in order not to speak a word in favor of the doctor when unfortunately and with my own experience I had to bear witness, unfortunately, to their professional, superhuman efforts, not once but several times. Just go to the hospital and see how these people work. It is enough to visit Draskovic once and see how many broken up there each day is operated or at any other hospital. Unfortunately, the management of that system is ineffective. Administrative errors occur there banal events that are impossible to correct. Imagine the student has no insurance, and it is impossible that the student has no insurance because it can't exist, and the reputation of the announcement please don't have insurance to pay in cash, for students who regularly study such banality are located. But hospital doctors, hospital staff is something Croatia can and must be proud of. And if an economist, the director, went away, the manager wouldn't be too bad to leave Croatia. I wouldn't regret a lot of people, some of them I might, but every doctor needs to be sorry. And that's why I'm reacting like this, and I need to protect everyone's union rights, but if they have every right to just deny that right to those who are most important in that system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100569	Thank you, too. New replica, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100570	Thank you. So when you spoke about doctors, you really spoke from the soul and about their call you mentioned their contribution to the Homeland War, but the situation in which doctors are present and ultimately our society has spent several hundred thousand kuna on their specialization to get out of Croatia to another country, in particular in Sweden, Denmark, Germany and the UK. And it even happens that some doctors leave over the weekend and perform certain procedures in some other countries. It is a problem that the health care system is not resolved in Croatia, that adequately doctors are not stimulated and are not adequately rewarded, and the worst part is that they are not allowed to adequately negotiate and in some way fight for rights. This does not diminish in any part of the other healthcare workers, but doctors are very important and appreciated abroad, and it means that they should also be appreciated in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100571	Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100572	Thank you very much. A fellow Tušak not only abroad to appreciate already finished doctors and practice, top surgeons, top doctors with years of practice, they also appreciate our Medical Faculty, those who have just finished medicine in Zagreb or somewhere else and are leaving, I know them 10 who have gone to Dortmund, Nuremberg, Frankfurt or any other not only Germany but also another country with just finished college. How many economists have gone abroad? Because we have mutilated the education of economists with various institutions but also because we are investing and top schooling and making progress for doctors, and when we allow them to do so, then the government makes such a strategic mistake in what we have invested in because of the lack of understanding and relationship with them they are forced to go away. What a pity, I daren't judge. It's a long-term damage. Because I said it took 20 years or 30 years to get a top surgeon or a top doctor. It's an irreparable damage. And now because of concern, superficiality or lack of interest in certain problems, such situations happen. I don't mind, however, all the participants in the process should be involved in social dialogue. And including a new partner in social dialogue does not exclude those involved but, in fact, it gets a better quality solution. And I can't understand any of that tenacity in disfellowshipping hospital doctors and social dialogue. I don't understand that tenacity in their exclusion. What does that get you? Can someone explain to me what it is, or what is lost if it is involved? So many arguments there are for and they keep working against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100573	Thank you too, colleague. We have a new replica, respected representative Josip Djakic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100574	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Maric, you have well noticed that this new representativeism that has been introduced is absolutely opposed to sources of international law but also to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. All the doctor's cries, all the warnings the proponent ignores, simply accepts nothing that is very valuable and important. All European practices of the European Court of Justice are irrelevant, the violation of Europe is happening again and there will be lawsuits again, there will be sanctions again, there will be warnings just because a group of very high-quality, honorable, hardworking and hardworking people will be shown as irrelevant in the Republic of Croatia. This is inadmissible, it will certainly cause further reflections in international legal practice as well as international law of trial and will certainly reflect the reputation of the Republic of Croatia again.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100575	Reply to the replica, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100576	Well, something that seems pretty ugly to me when someone from Croatia sues their country abroad, no matter where it happens, but it's necessary. If someone's rights are violated and their rights are persistently violated, then it's necessary to do so, but when judgment comes in favor of them and against the state, then it's ignored. I can't figure out how to ignore something like that. It says nicely in 2005 that Croatian courts were found to have violated the right to association of doctors by banning the strike of doctors. It's in the verdict that the hospital doctors directed against the state. Ignore it, why is there no argument involved in the debates? Let's see what arguments are against, and not justifiably, we've ruled them out, and we're just trying to get them involved, but there's no interlocutors. I'm trying to find an interlocutor for this topic on the other side, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And here we are trying to argue why they should be excluded, involved for their importance, because of their relationship. Well, you know when someone takes my mother's doctor by the toe and asks you how you're doing, so I don't ask her that. Who does that? Only top-notch people can do that, top-notch experts and man-to-man. So I don't understand that what society rests on, and society rests on health care because they care about our health so that we eliminate them as irrelevant. By doing so, we show how much we appreciate them and how important they are to us. I think it's too important for us to treat them like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100577	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100578	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Marić, you mentioned here that physicists, mathematicians can already be geniuses, I didn't understand you in that sense, but I would like to say that this profession is also worthy of admiration and that these experts in the world are also recognized in all international and study and practice. But not about that more, but about the other one. You joined me, you said that a top surgeon or specialist doctor at 30, 35 was just getting real, but you know, I know at least in Split the situation that with 65 he must retire. What a tragedy it is and what a disaster it is for the state when such a top expert has to retire at 65 years old and leave the system. Okay, maybe he's working in private, but leaving hospitals must certainly raise his voice against that. And all those who are able to work for over 65 years, how many parliamentary deputies we have over 65 or the president of the state. So I also appeal to be one of the topics, here is a minister who is also a doctor and professor in that area to find ways to allow these people to stay in the hospital for 65 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100579	Reply to the replica, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100580	Thank you very much. Comrade Sanader, you've noticed what I was saying about chemists and physicists, but I wanted to draw attention to their genius. Because there's really a possibility that geniuses are already 25 years old in these natural sciences. But you can't be a genius in social science when you're 20, you can't be an economist genius when you're 25 because for his genius, which is usually a questionable practice, you need practice. There are calls that need practice to confirm that call. That's what I was talking about. Doctors also need practice to become top doctors. The fact that at 65 years of age, that's another tragic relationship with them. Just when they can help young people with their education, in their progress in their example and in practice, because only in the medical call and experience, they are forced into retirement by force at 65 years of age and imagine they are employed by those at 68 years of age and are introduced to the directors of some parks, for fund directors, for directors of any company. So we have an institution where they haven't retired since 78 years, but doctors have had to be expelled because it shows that the government currently has a relationship to that call and to that part of the health system. And I think it's not just wrong, I think it's devastating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100581	We have another replica, a respected representative, and a doctor, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100582	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was pleasant indeed to listen to the way you talked about the health system and doctors whose proud member of the doctor and the doctor's choir and I think that this approach is needed, not in such a way that sometimes you say about doctors in inappropriate words that they are unemployed, etc. You showed what we had a chance to hear and you remember when there was a doctor's strike when that movie was shown on TV that in some way the same honorable profession was belittled and otherwise discredited. And you certainly need to understand this profession and this work and you said nicely that you are expected of everyone, and especially of the doctor to understand the specificity of this work, so no matter what position he was in, he was a minister. Because there says one peasant, farmers politicians are October trees, so today it's always to think where you came from and where you're going back to, but obviously you don't understand enough this medical profession, the medical profession, and that's why what's going on is happening, so there goes such a number that's worrying. And then when that doesn't work, they complain to the European Court of Human Rights. And it doesn't take much wisdom, I'll repeat that after this, the doctors will again be forced to turn to where both their difficulties and their conditions and everything else are understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100583	Thank you, too. Reply to the replica, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100584	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Milinkovic, why am I talking about a doctor's choir like that? Because I appreciate the knowledge that's measurable. It's hard to talk about immeasurable calling, and the doctor isn't just calling, not just knowing, but being a doctor is a call and being a doctor is a lifestyle and lifestyle. And I really admire anyone who's accepted that lifestyle and implanted it in my whole life. When you have an occupation, then you are eight hours away from that profession, perhaps you live a whole other life. You have as many interests as you want. But the doctor's call is from 0 to 24 and what's done is arranged because it's impossible to rule out any of that kind of life. And some other calls are very easy or some other calls are off, ending, changing, three jobs work differently in the same day. Here knowledge is measured, and the consequences of ignorance are devastating. And then how is it with those whose hands are so much responsibility not to give a little attention, just a little bit and a little bit of importance. How much they give us their lives so that we can't show them at least a sign of attention but rule them out as the most irrelevant in this society. And so many associations, so many unions are involved, so let's include them if they mean anything to us. They mean something to me, and obviously they mean something to you, and obviously to some who want to prevent them from participating in discussions on their status, on their terms, on their work and on their future whether they will go abroad or be there or will contribute to Croatian society or others, we are actually anesthetizing in their social activity. I don't agree to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100585	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the club HSU in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100586	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. This addition of the Law on representativeness of associations, employers and trade unions has in two articles 30 words, and so many fine stories were told this morning. Of course, my admiration for the medical call in any case, however, this proposal complements the law on it does not speak, nor does anyone have the ambition to deny the right to strike, the right to negotiate or the right to organise, definitely no union. This is about the government's ambition to negotiate further, no matter what HZO came out of the treasure. The government reserves the right to continue to negotiate with this proposal, although it could use paragraph 2 and say let's you form a negotiating team at HZZO level. But the government of Rh has another ambition, each other if we tell the commitment, which reminds me of something that happened in the city of Rijeka 10 years ago. Ten years ago, in the city of Rijeka, a single negotiating team was formed for all negotiating activities in all business-level activities in order to level the rights of employees using money from the city budget. This is about the same situation, and that is why the government is emerging, i.e. continuing the role of negotiators. He continues to act as negotiators with one such provision. There's been a lot of talk here about something that's the ambition of a medical union and it's a professional collective contract. If anyone in this room tells me where such a contract exists in Europe and the world I'm taking off his hat. Look, I've been negotiating for 13 years and I've never negotiated a professional collective contract. It is always a collective contract of activity, a collective contract covering all employees in one activity from the cleaning lady to the manager, regardless of the activity. If anyone finds me, I take back everything I said about it and say my 13 years of practice didn't work out at all. And just find me a place where there's an expert collective contract for one profession. It is obvious that the government is not going to come by this law because it will continue to negotiate and it is a pity that we do not have a collective bargaining code in Croatia, that the social partners did not start this process there 23 years ago and said at which level you would negotiate it. Because at all levels we negotiate everything and who is more cunning and resourceful and who is closer to the fire draws a more favourable collective contract without taking care of someone else who is the same user of that same budget and works, and his people do the same jobs. We don't have this fair play in it and have nothing formally arranged collective bargaining system. I must tell you in Italy is not negotiating this way as we negotiate. There are collective agreements and activities and at company level it is not negotiated whether or not someone can even temporarily go under the provisions of that collective contract but only negotiates on the company's performance account, whether it will go with a more favourable parameter. And that's the only part of the collective contract. Therefore, what has been negotiated at the level of activity is not negotiated. It's very economical, it's very smart, very practical than every time at every level to start collective bargaining over, it doesn't make any sense. These are not technical changes as counterpart Nekic said, this is intent, this is one attitude and one principle that the government wants to push out because it started this story with a regulation. And he wants to give all the unions a chance to sit at the table and negotiate the content of that collective contract. And I still have to correct one position that has been said here by my fellow Rainer and the union is negotiating on behalf of all doctors. Each union negotiates on behalf of its members and all what it has negotiated under the law applies to all employees in that activity, without exception whether or not they are members of the union but the union exclusively negotiates for its members. And that's the way it is in Croatia and in the whole world. The Croatian Retired Party Club will unreservedly support these amendments to the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100587	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have two replicas, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100588	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague Hrelja, to leave from the end, it is clear to me that you, as a coalition's faithful partner of the SDP, will support what they propose. However, the question of how the doctor’s salaries in other countries have been resolved raises a number of other issues. Of course, in most countries there is no need for unions at all because society recognises the role of doctors and adequately appreciates them. Not the way it is in Croatia. And the union was created right out of necessity, out of the need to protect some rights that unfortunately society didn't want, knew, could, wanted to recognize. Thus, comparing the situation in Croatia with some other countries would lead us very far. I can immediately tell you my salary and salary of an adequate expert in Germany. But that doesn't make sense. It's kind of like comparing I don't know, our salaries with salaries, say, representatives in the Italian Parliament, which, as far as I know, are about 30 times bigger. So we'll compare it? So let's not use such comparisons. Let's talk about the measure of things. I agree with you that this bill does not talk about what most of us are talking about. But why are most of us talking about it? Because that's the problem in the country not today, not even last year, not last year, that's the problem. A problem we need to recognize. And when we change the law, it's unfortunate that we haven't taken advantage of the opportunity to at least try to solve the problem that most people here are obviously feeling except for some of the ruling representatives. Everyone else recognized the problem, and everyone else was well - meaning to advise that when the law changes, it is trying to solve itself and that problem that no one can deny not to stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100589	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100590	Dear colleague Reiner, I'm not saying this to raise a coalition partner or government, but I am speaking based on my 13-year experience and I was talking about the principles of collective bargaining. And I didn't compare the situation in Germany, Italy and Croatia, but I compared how systems work. Of course, in Germany doctors have their rights and working conditions which are also in a certain relationship with the country's social standard and with the salaries of both metal and construction workers and everyone else. And we have about the doctors having a certain relationship to those other salaries. Look, this is the most important, health and health care issue is the most important thing in the world, but we are talking about the principles of negotiating and creating a material base for the whole activity because it is funded by taxpayers' money, or money collected from employees' contributions. It is therefore our responsibility to balance and respect the principles of collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100591	Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100592	Thank you. A colleague of Silvano's, just two things. In one part you said and that's true, that unions negotiate for their members, which is the negotiating power and force of the union, and then you said that the collective contract that is signed refers to all employees in the activity. We don't get along until the end. It refers to employees who cover the negotiating associations, it is on the one hand employers, on the other hand, because we have what I said in my speech, that there is just an extended application of collective agreements to a particular activity which gives the possibility to a particular minister from a particular activity to expand the application of the collective contract and we are just witnessing that 4 collective contracts covering somewhere around 30,000 employees have lost that right. It lost it from the title because it was regulated by law that this extended application would cease to apply. And in the part where you spoke about collective agreements of professions, is, I agree with you here but there is in practice a tariff part that sign the professions. One thing is a collective contract and it allows individual professions to agree on the tariff part. He doesn't get into collective bargain rights, but certain professions can sign about union organisations, the tariff part. Clearly, we have drivers who have their own tariff section somewhere abroad, so it's a professional collective contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100593	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100594	Yes, I may have failed to say that, or perhaps I wasn't clear enough, of course, that the collective agreement applies, what has been negotiated to those who represent the participants of the collective bargaining process, so those entities that cover the negotiating committees, but it's also exactly this and thank you for the supplement, that it can also be extended to complete and total activity. This was quite boldly claimed to be negotiated by professional trade unions on the tariff contribution of the collective contract. You'll have to find me where it exists because I could agree that maybe there are some shades that I can get from the work results myself in the name of a professional carrier, but if I could sign either a tariff or a collective contract, I don't think professional unions can do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100595	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is next to the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here's my colleague Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100596	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-Liberal Democrats will support the amendments to this law. I'd say at first, given that some were talking about technical change, as Mr. Hrelja said, it's not technical, but it's logical. It is logical because the government recognized with this change the need to join as Government in one segment that is particularly important and there are colleagues who today talked about the medical profession absolutely right and the overall system of health are absolutely right and its importance, that the government that started these negotiations are certainly not simple, given the complexity of the system and negotiations and continue. So there's been a new situation where HZZO has been separated from the treasurery system. HZZO, its revenues are estimated somewhere at 22 billion kuna, which also speaks about the importance of the entire system and financial system, and not just this social one that we talk about most often, and that it is important that the government is set up according to this large system. Of course, then the debate started in that direction where we talked most about what the position was just part of that whole system, and that's a medical profession. I can say on behalf of the CNS that, of course, we especially appreciate everything that not only doctors as a top-notch profession have done for a wider social community in the past 15-20 years, especially at the time of the Homeland War, but also all those other professions that have such social significance, and there are very many and not only medical ones and it is not nice when we from the pay phone or from the assembly bench in any way favour or put on a pedestal of individual professions, however much they really mattered. So I'm also a little sorry that if we've already mentioned doctors, that today we haven't mentioned major problems in which some of the state-owned companies and workers who work in these companies are, so here's what we saw today that came on strike at a factory that I'd say about our country is maybe and I won't say equal, but great importance. So, the engine factory and the cranes in Rijeka, which was part 3. In May where the best personnel who had completed the Faculty of Engineering and Shipbuilding in Rijeka were employed for years, for example, I would not underestimate the profession, given that for years these people have created the best quality products, produced the best motors and cranes, Croatian ships were declared the best and best-quality ships. So these are the people who contributed to being created to produce in this country, that all the social upgrades we need can be paid out of what they produce. In this case here today we're talking about health care and we're talking about health care. Without this, it will not be possible, without investment in such personnel, to maintain such personnel and such factories will not be possible to maintain any very expensive and very important system such as the health care system in one country. Here's another thing I have to notice, it came here, namely, there's a doctor, there's always a lot of them in politics, so there's a lot of them in this assembly. Our minister, as far as I know, is a doctor. I can't believe you would suggest amending the law in a way that would harm his own colleagues, but I think we all need to be reasonable in the situation we're in. These negotiations on the interest of trade unions representing the health profession will certainly not be simple, because there are also many of those wheels throughout the system that are not exclusively health professions, but there are many other professions that are represented in them. So we want a lot of success of course to the government in future negotiations. It was said here that the medical profession was compromised, so just a few comments and that a large number of doctors decided to go abroad. I think that's what we should talk about, talk about accurate data and accurate data. Because if we're talking casually, then we can say that it's been like that in that former state for years. Doctors were often the ones who went across borders to the countries where they had them I would say not only bigger salaries, but also had more quality opportunities to advance and to improve and to specialize which most of them is the first interest, and then perhaps the one most talked about here and that's the one financially, so how much money there is. So I'm interested in what we've all done as a society in the last 20 years, in general, that we've made a medical profession, not just a doctor's profession, but some other professions of such importance that we like to stress more often, to have higher dignity. So, it's not just this government decision like some colleagues here want to say what's going to bring down or what's destroying the height of such waists. It's something that unfortunately has been through the system for decades and decades has not been adequately treated and we've come where we've come from. The same thing is similar in science, the same thing is a teacher’s, or teacher’s, teaching activities. We must do much on such systems but first strengthen our own economy so that we can count on that social so-called. Upgrade the ability to reward and create better quality conditions for those working in these activities. And just in the end, I would say that all of these laws that we have passed regarding both the Labour Act and the Union's Representative Act were still going in one direction, namely rounding up the union scene and trying to include as many workers as possible, as many members as possible, as possible. And I think that when you read that there are 311 unions in the register, although they are grouped into about 5 strongest centres, to gather only 35% of total employees in the Republic of Croatia, then it is data that says that these decisions, namely these proposals that the Government makes and proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt in a good direction, that the union scene should be circled precisely around these activities. And the collaboration of unions within these centers, within themselves, is something that these laws refer to and we think that's good. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100597	Thank you. Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100598	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you from the doctor leave at 3. May, then and the teachers, etc. But what I wanted to point out is that you're not forgetful. In fact, even at the time of the former government, the Croatian Medical Union was not representative as it is now not representative because it is involved in the border union and nurses and not medical staff etc. So there were problems for the former governments, and you noticed that well. There was also a strike during the former health minister, and we know that, and I spent it eventually. But what hurt me is that you doubt the data that 800 doctors left Croatia. According to the Croatian Medical Chamber, this is the most relevant data, so I am surprised that you are taking a flat-rate assessment until 31.12.2014, it left Croatia forever, so it asked for a barbershop from membership in Croatia to the doctor’s chamber 800 doctors. And that's a fact, there you can't say went to specialization, perfection, etc. It's a lie you're talking about. And speaking of May 3rd, you might not have mentioned it because I would have mentioned your shipyard where you're the mayor of the Queen who you sent into bankruptcy and the workers on the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100599	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100600	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I didn't doubt that you would support, of course, as well as the faithful coalition partner of this SDP proposal, but I have to react to what you said and doctors have gone abroad before. Well, of course they are, so clearly they are. But never, ever in such an enormous number, for decades not in such an enormous number and suddenly. So that's a fact, we can't get away from that fact. Surely it is not good and certain that it would be wise no matter who is in power, regardless of what your coalition is now in power to consider this debate that is quite unison and in which the desire is expressed that the medical union can represent doctors, nothing else. Nothing more and nothing less. And that the majority of colleagues who spoke about making it possible when the law was changed, when I am stressing the law, do not make a small change technically as stated, but to make a step right in the direction that has long sought and the whole medical profession, and I also find it quite unanimous actually representatives here in the Parliament. So that's what this is all about. Of course all of this can be clouded, of course we can start talking about a series of other problems that are plagued by Croatian society at this time, etc., etc. However, we are talking about that it is a shame that this opportunity has not been taken advantage of that something which is very clearly articulated and which there are no objective arguments did not take the time to amend this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100601	Hope Turina-Đuric, answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100602	Well, now you're saying I said something I didn't say. I just said that when it comes to doctors leaving Croatia that it's always been, I've even pointed out that it was more often because they saw the opportunity to perfect themselves, specialize faster, it's a problem system, it's not a problem, I hope it wasn't a problem just pay. Because if we're going to talk about wages, you haven't said how much pay a specialist can have in a KBC or a doctor in general practice where there's the same huge difference in these salaries, so I'm not going to talk about it either because it would be more appropriate for you as a doctor in that system to say. For Croatian occasions, however, these are not shameful wages. These are salaries that are not as likely in the Western European countries but certainly are not shameful wages for Croatian conditions. And why don't we have enough doctors? I don't know why you or your party didn't spend a lot of years in charge of educating more doctors? We unfortunately have relatively small registration quotas at medical schools, very difficult to enroll, for years some young people have been trying to enroll the Medical Faculty, it's very difficult to enroll, it needs specific knowledge. The study takes a very long time, it's very expensive and in the end it's not all over when they graduate from college but usually, not usually, but most often they have to go to internships, after which to specialize. So, to get a finished doctor a minimum minimum of 10 years of continuous education. Do we motivate enough young people, and does opening the process mean that we train such people in greater numbers to have enough doctors for our needs tomorrow? But that's a question of a system where you've been involved in your own time, Mr. Rainer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100603	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100604	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues Turina-Đurić and you said, let's say that was such a word, with admiration, respect for the health system and doctors in particular, and it reminds me of that parable when someone beats someone up and then this other one comes to him and pats him on the shoulders and says you took it well. Secondly, you wanted to withdraw and you pulled some parallels with other professions, and in that part, I have no intention of getting into that area. Every profession deserves admiration, respect, and there is no speech in that part. But I think the most picturesque fellow Maric spoke when in the morning at 3 a.m. someone eases your pain and solves your health problem with that number where all the procedures have to go through this kind of thing, so in 5, 6, that thing is solved. But when there was an increase in electricity prices, 20%, and that went very, very fast. And now if we're going to look that way safely that, you said if the medical profession is compromised, it's threatened, of course, the availability and quality of the health system is compromised. But you were talking about why it wasn't signed up, so do you know how much funding was cut for colleges to enroll students? Now at the time of this government that you are a member of what is... But of course here is what we are talking about today, which is being warned by the medical union, which is freedom, the right to freedom of association, as the European Court of Human Rights says. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, there's no need for them to talk again. We want to warn here of these problems really not to have even greater difficulties in this health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100605	Hope Turina-Đuric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100606	Well, colleague Milinkovic, just for one part of your replica, I'll look back, and that's the part where you said that we've reduced resources for science or for education that we could debate whether it's just like that or not, but that today, my colleague Milinkovic, we should have had enough doctors to start educating them 10, 15 years ago. I've been doing something under the circumstances in the health system and I know that in one period 15 years ago and something a little bit more almost there wasn't any specialization at all. So somewhere in the '90s and even until the end of the '90s, we almost didn't have a supported state specialization system. Fortunately, however, something improved during the 2000 ’ s. That is why I also wanted to draw attention to my debate that the whole system issue is that doctors are not leaving just because other professions are not leaving just because they may not be adequately paid, but because the whole system has not allowed them, it has not provided them with quality progress, specialization, passivity in the system of progress in such institutions that everyone who you are a doctor knows much better than I do. And dissatisfaction with this inability and this diminished chance one good part of the people actually left because of it. And the fewer will go away if we can make these systematic changes, and yet we are on track, what I hear from Minister Varga's hospital field, I think it's going to have an effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100607	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100608	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with your associate. Five years ago, I got a withdrawal from HDZ from the hospital in Slavonski Brod and I couldn't even access the surgical ward in which I was head of trauma. At the time we had an extra invoice in Slavonko Brod, we had to agree with the ministry that we would make that surplus invoice, whether we would pay us, if we would transfer it to the next year, etc. Two days ago, I was, I'm sorry today is Wednesday, that on Monday I was in a hospital in Slavonski Brod and I'm getting this information: the unserious realization for 2014 is 22.3 million kuna. That's the result of the five years I left the hospital, and it's not my fault or my fault, but I deserve it. But there's a lack of realization. Why do I ask a colleague who runs that hospital or the leading team of that hospital? Well, because I'm saying there's no enthusiasm amongst doctors anymore, there's no elana like it was. They come from the house when it was necessary to remove the dren, when it was necessary to look at why the patient has a weak blood count, you come from home and look at the patient. And that's what Boro says no more. No one will come or intervene, and I don't know what. Here I don't want to blaspheme our doctors, but the system has done it to become a practice that I can't work as little as me, they can't pay me as little as I can do just that. And then the doctor does either one or two gastroscopys, I'm talking about another profession not surgical, and the nurse's afraid she's gonna be able to get paid, did the nurse get paid if the doctor works one or two gastroscopys a day? As long as our health care came and thanks to the government's management, and it wasn't much better during the former government, but such perseverance, says someone here persistent, Maric said in ignoring the medical profession, in ignoring the medical union is not tenacity but stubbornness. It has tenacity as a milder degree and stubbornness as the ultimate stubbornness that is being carried out here over that, here you have now had so-called. The border union and we have this professional union. So then doctors, given the number of members of 75 thousand health employees, 40,000 union members, and the doctor has a total of 14 of which is 8 in the union. So I can't get the status of a representative union. The complaint to the European Court of Human Rights on the right to strike, we know how it went. So, any suspicion was removed that the strike was not legal, that the court was wrong even. 800 doctors left Croatia and were wiped out of the membership of the Croatian Medical Chamber until 31 December 2014 and that is the fact. How many more of these months and a half in 2015 were deleted from the membership of the Croatian Medical Chamber I do not know, we will hear the data from Professor Minig of the Croatian Medical Chamber may soon be on some Health Committee when he is here. How can it be when we say that there are sometimes different interests within the unions, so those who aren't health care professionals and also those who are, let me say the majority of the nurses I'm taking off my hat for my work. I've never been against the verification and quality of their work and the effort they make for patients, how they can be of the same interest, so that it's only to be made within the union or to prescribe relationships when negotiating on doctors to then leave the border union negotiations with the government or the negotiating committee to doctors. And when you negotiate the rights of a sisterhood or staff outside medicine that there's about 30% in the hospital to let those who actually are. If there was a fair play, it would be good. But we remember well one union representative, now whether I'm going to name or not, and I guess she's retired more, thank God, who never, ever, in negotiations or in critical situations, was not for the interests of a doctor, and we have to say, nominate a person. We know red hair, etc. There's a memory. And now we're making something smart here when we know it is, when she was always against the interest of a doctor. Croatia's government and the Croatian state are obviously leading the fight against politics, so rule, there you go. Now you doctors argue with sisters and others, interests are not the same, so you come before the state and before the committee, the negotiating committee, and now you say what you're going to do. Normally, interests are sometimes the opposite of what a colleague said, he says sometimes, we're always working together and we always help each other, but interests are not the same. It's not the same job, it's not the same responsibility for people's lives for human health. Doctors, if anyone thinks what I was saying at first won't work, it's not true. They are doctors during their schooling, during the need for lifelong education, so to follow modern trends. Doctors are as Maric said from 0 to 24 hours, they cannot be accused of being treated by doctors only the system can prevent them, the system and this way of treating doctors can prevent them from losing weight, losing enthusiasm, losing their will to work. And it happens and it happens. Here you see when I left the hospital, 10.5 million invoices were extra, the hospital had in Slavonski Brod. Now there's 22.3 million shortfall. The lack of realization, there is no realisation, the one that is prescribed for 2014 has 22 million. What does that mean? What happened? It was not such a drain of personnel from Slavonski Brod so to reduce the number but to reduce the number of interventions, the number of examinations decreased, the number of operations decreased. Why? Why did that happen? And the rescheduling directors were put in place, which led to a complete collapse of that hospital. We're going to get a report here from the health ministry soon as the recovery directors, the politically-placed counterparts who worked as they worked and the hospitals went even further down. But it's not a subject, it's a subject so there's a few words of the law where it's actually the draft law on supplementing the Law on the representativeness of employers' associations. In unions nothing has changed, we remain doctors in the border union and have no right to vote, to vote, to vote. About the importance of medical care, about what Mr. Maric spoke very emotionally today because each of us has had a personal from when a man was born and to the grave, we deal with doctors from childbirth and beyond, from vaccination to further, from child diseases and then we go on as we please. So when you have a pregnant woman, you have to go back to the doctor's office again, and you have to go to the doctor's office for the rest of your life, to the paliatry or the geriatrics when we end up like we're all gonna end up together. And in the end, your doctor has to give you a diagnosis of the cause of death again, and after you die, your doctor tells you again what you died of. But obviously someone doesn't recognize that importance either, or the need to find some modus once, let's make regulations of fair play in unions, so when it comes to medical rights that that whole union is then represented by doctors in negotiations. So why do we need the guy who cuts the grass, I mean the honor of every man doing his job, but in the hospital circle, he's rubbing the lawn mower. Will he negotiate for medical rights? In addition, in the Homeland War almost all doctors are volunteers of the Homeland War, 6 of them died for one, and we don't know where his bones or Mr. Schreter from Pacrac, for which one of our representatives led two doctors from Sisak to exchange, so he took two from Sisak, and Shreter didn't bring him because they liquidated him. And dr. Krusic from Slunj we know how he ended up, Dr. Krusic, who was executed, was executed literally in Mali Vukovac and not to tell any further stories of the doctor from the war. We could also write about the sacrifice of a doctor in the war. And despite all this, despite all this I've said we still have one really stubborn resistance from the minister and this government to finally say, so stop leaving our doctors more. What do you want? Do you want the structure of medicine and demographic image to change in Croatia? That's your goal. That's your goal. You'll bring in a doctor from Kosovo and neither do I, so we'll make it up to you. You'll never make up for it. These doctors who leave Croatia will never be compensated. We gave them, we gave them all money to school together, they cost Croatia and the Croatian people and Croatian taxpayers, and then we give them easily to England, Ireland, Sweden, Switzerland and so on. And my son thinks, he's a urologist, says dad, so I'd have six grand in London, offer me a job as a urologist for six thousand euros. Because it's down here every month. There was income tax, bill passed, they received less pay. So how is that possible? You say you're going to help the middle layer, let's put the doctors in the middle layer, and they get less pay for January and the income tax is reduced so they get 1,000, 2000 more, no, they get less pay. He showed me the list. Both for January 12th and January. Less pay than when no income tax measure was abolished that should have remained for those people. No, I don't. What's going on? For three months, the government has extended this erasure of the collective agreement, says by March 31st, we will extend it to you and here we are talking about some kind of as the Committee of Negotiators says here, etc. What are we talking about? The government regulation was adopted by 31 March and there is no negotiation at all, it is a regulation that is ongoing, which is in force. There's no negotiation here. Or this is getting ready for later on after 31st. 3. that might be true? In any case, I've spoken here before, he knows, and Mr. Minister, I'm not afraid and I'm not secreting that I'm against communicating with doctors this way in this country. Not because I'm a doctor and I'm 39 years old, but what they really are, so talk to everyone, here's a talk to the doctors, any doctors, so they'll tell you, I don't have to talk, here I speak for myself, in the name of them. Talk to them, go among them. I think, Mr. Minister, you're on the Rebr, so go amongst the people, ask. Is it a problem to go among people and ask them why they feel weak, why they want to go abroad, etc. And when someone says it's not just... It's not even just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it is, let's look at the pay gap. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course a man will, every man will, every man strives to take care of his family, take care of himself. Well, then of course he's thinking about leaving Croatia. When there's no way we can get in a position for doctors to talk to the government about their status. Not at all. He says, "Someone says here, Hrelja, that it's so prescribed, there's no state in any country, there's no saying in any country, is there, that doctors have the right to negotiate." In something we're the first, here's the fiscalization says Czechy wants to buy from us, so why don't we talk to the doctors first, Mr. Hrelja? So we boast that we are the first in many ways in Europe. Therefore, the HDSSB club based on all these arguments cannot possibly be, even if something is better or I don't know what kind of, this is one technical, so I have to say, whoever claimed a different toothpick where only instead of the ministry or the government is writing HZZO, and that's that. But as far as the union itself is concerned, the doctor, the Croatian doctor, and you have found all of this and will begin to press charges of various and mounted processes, etc., for members of the Croatian Medical Union to prevent them from working. No one can convince me that it wasn't politically motivated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100609	Thank you. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100610	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Grubisic, I'd like to look back on a few things you said, first of all, what you said about actually cutting wages at the end after so-called. tax changes. Well, that only exposes what we've been saying here that it's a public obsession and that unfortunately it won't increase wages and especially not increase wages to the poorest. You're a little confused with the fact that there's been a reduced invoiced realization in the hospital where you worked. However, the answer to this is not only reduced staff enthusiasm due to treatment, I would say in general, but also cuts in wages that occurred more than much more, something the public is not aware of at all. And this is that when health care was fictitiously taken care of, in fact, to resuscitate the Croatian Health Insurance Institute then it was done so that prices fell by 30.40%. And then, of course, if the prices are reduced drastically, it's going to turn out to be less or less invoiced than what was done before even when it's done equally, maybe even more when it's done. But if prices are 30, 40% reduced, of course, on paper that's much less. So that's the answer to your question. And what's very important to say and it was said here, I'm sorry that there's no colleague who mentioned it, it's true that if we start to educate a doctor today that the effect of this will only be seen in 10, 15 years. But that's what I was saying and when this year's budget has been debated and last year's budget has been discussed, and when I was just saying that by reducing or not funding education, high education and science, we're going to create a situation whose fatal consequences will not be visible this year, perhaps even next year, but they will certainly be visible in 5 or 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100611	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100612	Thank you very much. My colleague Reiner is not clear to me and you have explained to me because you are still in the system, so at the clinic that the prices of services in hospitals are really so reduced that they simply cannot realise as much money as prescribed. So I'm asking you and you're not an appendectomy surgeon, so the appendectomy as the people like to say, cost 180 kuna, where the employee surgeon, his assistant, anesthesiologist and his assistant and two assistants and maids. So seven people in the O.R. earning a single appendix of 180 kuna. Well, as much as they could reduce, I don't get it. So what did the appendectomy fall on? It's incomprehensible to me. It's completely incomprehensible to me. And what we're supposed to do, catch patients like doctors on the street, drag them to hospitals to have invoices written, stand at the gate as they say in hospitals or port any way you want, come by and I'll make you something and we'll invoice you. So it's spilling from hollow to blank, so there's really no solution in that system. Now we have a national hospital plan, etc., I'm just bringing in a 350-page strategy Mr. Ostojić didn't say anything, so we don't have a final solution because we don't have a solution to the health system at all, but by when, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100613	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100614	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Boro, you have well established that there is no respect, that there is deafening, that it is not understood, the Medical Union is marginalized and what is interesting is clearly done against international law and legal order, as well as laws. This will come again clearly as a burden to the Croatian state as a member of the European Union who will again have a view of his government which does not work at all on the benefit of a doctor, let alone on the welfare of the state, given that he ignores European practice. What we mentioned to Mr. Hrelja, so he had different criteria before when he was in another government coalition partner and talked differently about how to negotiate. This now party negotiation is probably the only way that can be established because there is no other way, or you will be as we say or we will not allow you to negotiate, to be involved at all. And doctors, as a profession that is absolutely beneficial to Croatian citizens and which is necessary, which is becoming less and less in the Republic of Croatia because it is leaving, will clearly be embittered by these procedures and will further be a ignoring relationship with them, cause further departure. Mr. Hrelja, don't throw me out of the bench, I'm not yours. But the criteria you've established before should have them now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100615	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100616	Thank you, colleague Djakic. It's no problem to realize that someone's an A.T.A., and then he comes out of the camera position, and that's how he represents his own. Well, he was with you in the coalition as far as I know, right, so it was the same thing back then. So... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the other thing, as far as European practices are concerned, is that in Europe I remember being a doctor's strike in Italy, my colleague Djakic was a general strike, a general strike of doctors in Italy a few years ago, and that's what I remember it was like we had a doctor strike, but that strike when it happened in the west, then he's a real strike. We've always been here, despite the strike, and we've been at our patients' service, and we've always kind of let him take it and we'll take a look. So even then, we showed signs of sensitivity and availability, even though we declared a strike. It's a completely different strike compared to that general strike by a doctor in Italy who was 5-6 years ago, I don't know when. So what I'm saying is, it's mostly not a good situation, and I think that's going to result in further doctor drains. I wish it didn't, but we will follow the situation this year as is followed by the Croatian Medical Chamber and we will see how things work out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100617	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100618	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I noticed, too, my colleague Grubisic, what your colleagues in replicas were saying, but whatever you were saying about this part of this technical arrangement right now, whatever it is you called, remains the fact that you said it was one stubbornness, one inappropriate stubbornness where it is simple, here it can be said that the Croatian medical union that has been present in the dialogue for years, etc. with simply one regulation eliminated and, of course, denied him collective bargaining and the right to strike which is, let's say, constitutionally questionable. And now, of course, following all this so constantly the importance of this work and everything expensive, that it comes to what you said at the very beginning, and to the loss of enthusiasm and to all other circumstances and, of course, you see the number of colleagues leaving for work abroad and, of course, the risk of quality and availability of health care. We also see it mainly in rural areas, where also every day an increasing number of rural hospitals remain empty, without a doctor, no matter how much effort has been put into that part and the technical and equipment of everything together. It is certain that in rural areas where I often speak both of the availability and quality of health care has been greatly disrupted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100619	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100620	Thank you very much. It is not clear to me, colleague Milinkovic, that you from your club very often appear in connection with the representativeness of the union when this same Croatian medical union was not representative even during your government and will not be when you come to power and what you are negotiating here again between us and the Kukuriku coalition and all of us. So for your government, the Croatian Doctor's Union had no more rights than it has now and what it will probably have in the future and what we as doctors at all, and those in the union and those outside the union can expect from this at the end of the debate which will be so debated for debate, and in fact so on. And as for the very realisation of hospitals, I've received data from those who work in the hospital's administration, but in no word have I been told that the price of services in the hospital has been reduced and that the loss actually results, so you can do as much as you want if your service price is minimalized or reduced. Well, you can work like a black man all day without being racist around here. So you can work as hard as you want but you can't write the bill as long as it takes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100621	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100622	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, where my colleague Grubisic in some way demeans me because it brings out false allegations. It's not true he wasn't a medical union at the time of the HDZ government. He was representative and negotiating, not true. So please don't use such things.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100623	Thank you. No injured Rules of Procedure. He's a colleague... Don't yell from the bench. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] counterpart Grubisic expressed his opinion, so if the opinion is wrong, it does not mean that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the proposer, Minister of Labour and Pension System, Mr Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100624	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your honors and for your representatives. Well, we talked a little bit about, I expected the debate to be brief, but apparently there are certain interests that have been at the adoption of the Law on Representativeship. And distinguished representative Boro Grubisic is right. So when we talk about professional organisation, so I'm not going to talk about unions of some kind, about professional organisation, not one government so far, so by law, made it possible to organise professionally, neither this coalition, nor HDZ. So coalition bargaining, excuse me, to be exact. In fact, when we talk about collective bargaining itself, then we need to know what is the point of collective bargaining. The point of collective bargaining is to establish working conditions, wages, therefore those interesting issues and what is the difference between the interesting issues of doctors, nurses, medical technicians. So, they all want to negotiate their own interest rights. It is not in the state that the state allows and regulates relations between trade unions. And that country must not be allowed or interfered. What the state needs to do is a framework in which trade unions and employers will behave when we talk about negotiation. As far as professional bargaining is concerned, we do not see problems in representivity itself because the law does not prevent professional trade unions from participating in the negotiations. The very clear law allows unions to sit at the table, agree on a negotiating committee, and automatically all become representative. The law made it possible. Looking at what has happened over the past year over 80% of the negotiating committees have been agreed by agreement and all trade unions have become representative regardless of whether they have 500, 100 or 1000 members. Everything in 20% of the cases went into count and based on the number of members of the establishment of representativeness. This brings to light the growing number of requests that we have before the Committee to determine the representativeness that unions are going to count. And we don't, so looking at these negotiations were for a collective contract in Croatia airlines, it will be again. We have a pilot professional union there, we have a cabin staff union and they're in the interest of sitting at a table together and then negotiating together and being representative. We have the same thing about engineers, so we have more and more, so we have more professional unions that are normally representative without any problems and no need to count. Enabling professional bargaining leads to the fragmentation of the system, which means leading to fragmentation and trade union struggles and watching and talking about this law, the position of the centrals was very clear, that professional bargaining is something that should be framed in negotiating with all other trade unions because everyone is fighting for the same rights. So the right of interest, the right to pay, the right to working conditions. And it is no stubbornness of anyone, but it is simply a matter of principles and the matter of organisation, negotiations in the Republic of Croatia and the Law of Representativeship that has contributed. Because if we allow the fragmentation of the system we will then have collective agreements at the level of all hospitals where the rights of doctors and sisters and all of those in one hospital will be resolved in one way, in another hospital in another way depending on what the abilities of one or another negotiating committee are, is that on the side of the hospital's management or whoever negotiates on the other. It would therefore be very unreasonable by the government to enable certain discrimination in the system in such a way, as they are all doing the same work. In the public system, everyone does the same work, is financed from the same means and it is clear that certain specific features of the profession should be respected and the medical union has always been respected. Here we are now negotiating a basic collective contract for public health where the medical union is part of the negotiating committee. Therefore, there is no speech to discriminate against any trade union, it can always be a member of the negotiating committee and I see there are no problems in other activities. If the pilots can, if the engineers can, if I can, I don't see any other professions why it wouldn't be in health care. In addition, the negotiating committee would be stronger towards the government. There will be clear stories about this law. What's on the side of us in the government is clear that the law has passed and led to a rounding of the union scene and instead of 5 centralities we have 4. Some unions have joined together but we are not interested in unions joining together, it is their free will whether one or the other joins the union, but is our goal which we have achieved for the unions to sit at the table and agree on a negotiating committee. In over 80% of the cases of negotiations in the past year, no matter how many there were at any level and which companies had sat down and agreed and identified representativeness, which means one member, 100 members or a thousand members by agreement are all representative members. As for the possibility of representative union in Croatia, there are about 12,000 doctors. For the union's representativeness if we're going to go to this section that's related to the count it takes for the union to have about 8200 members. I don't see on the other side of the reason, if you go that way, then you increase the number of members. But it's on doctors who will join or not join the union. Thus, on the side of the government, no one has ever been prevented from negotiating, it has been made possible in several ways. And on the other hand, when we talk about professional bargaining, it leads to a fragmentation of the negotiation and to the end of discrimination and instability in the system because for the same work in a particular part of the system, pay would be different than in another part of the system, because I say it would occur in order to bring the negotiations down even to the level of hospitals. That remark that the law did not comply with the unions. Yeah, he's in line with the unions, so as far as this part is concerned. We've had counselling, we've also had a conversation and a meeting with the unions according to which the amendment of this law is fully in line with the unions. Of course there will be stories, there will probably be replicas, and I note again that no one has been prevented from negotiating, no one has been disabled from becoming representative. There was no professional negotiation in Croatia, and there will probably not be one. In no EU country, professional bargaining is the way workers' rights are regulated. What we are interested in is that the unions sit at the table, agree on representativeness, and every smart union will have a professional union with it because it gives it more power in negotiations because the trade union can very clearly and effectively stop either production or stop the process itself. Therefore, each union is in the interest of having a strong professional union with it. In other activities, I can see that there are no problems. I hope that along with the health care that is sufficient and on an interpersonal basis that the health care section will also be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100625	Replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100626	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, first a few of the papers you said. So it's not true that it wasn't negotiated with individual unions about a collective contract. I personally, being on the government's side then, held negotiations with the medical union about a collective contract in the '90s. Therefore, it is not clear that negotiations were not particularly conducted with the medical union. They did, collective agreements were created, etc., and that was amended when the Union's Representative Act was amended. That's when it went missing. So, that should be very clear. You were, of course, always very eloquently representing what you represent. You mentioned, say, pilots. Well, of course, you mentioned the pilots, but you didn't say that for sure when you're negotiating it, you don't negotiate with, say, the cooks in the caterer about what conditions the pilots will be. They work in the same area, they work at the same airport, etc. Of course, however, the specificities of the work are something that also determines their interests and, of course, they want to represent different interests. It is absolutely certain that we can of course redicculate things and say that if we let doctors run their own negotiations that then every hospital will, but it never was and never will be. Of course no one's even talking about it. But if we're talking about doctors as a group, so we're talking about over 12,000 doctors who have their own interests that are somewhat different from the interests of other healthcare professionals, then this whole discussion today, the whole morning actually comes down to when the law was changing why it didn't sort of be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100627	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100628	Dear Representative Reiner, perhaps we're not talking about two of the same things or you're deliberately not talking about two of the same things. It is one professional collective agreement and professional bargaining, and one is the negotiations for the city's collective agreement involving trade unions. It's a big difference and it's not the same. Therefore, professional collective bargaining is not possible under this law, but negotiating for the city's collective agreement involving professional trade unions is something that this law allows and even forces trade unions to do so. When we talk about pilots and cabin staff so they sat down together and agreed to go together to negotiate our collective agreement at our company level because you have the power. Pilots if they go on strike, planes don't fly. Doctors don't work, hospitals stand. So we're talking about two completely different things. The law does not allow professional bargaining but the law allows city negotiations and trade unions have always been involved. And again I say here we have a basic collective contract for public services where the medical union is part of the negotiating committee. The second law allows the medical union to be part of the negotiating committee for the city collective agreement, and I think that you and I agree that the city's collective health agreement is something that we need and within we need to define both the rights of the doctor, and the rights of sisters, and that technical staff because it enables all to be equal, or not to be certain parts of the system in the imbalance. Therefore, the city collectively yes, the professional union inside, yes, but the professional collective contract does not exist in Europe, no country has a professional collective contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100629	Dujomir Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100630	Your Honor, Madam President, Mr. Secretary, I didn't mean to take your word for it because it's simply not necessary. It's obvious all over the country what it's all about. But me a little bit, I can tell you it irritates your insistence. I understand you as a minister, you're here to sort of sell it to us as a fog or... for a candle, but it's too much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, you are, the truth is, doctors have negotiated with the government for their interest, and we can't go into details within a minute and a half of what's at my disposal. You have deliberately crushed these unions, the representativeness of these trade unions, and given the union one member the right as the one with 100,000 members. You purposely cracked to disable, to weaken these healthy and powerful elements in this structure in this case, doctors. You deliberately clocked doctors, tarnished, humiliated, demeaned, disabled, I can tell you to do well and I don't know what doctors think, what they're waiting for, but as a doctor, I can't make peace with that status and it hurts me. What you've done is unsustainable. Let's just say, I'm always saying what I know, in a Split hospital I'll, too brave HDZ, not to mention anyone, so we're public figures and Mrs. Memorial Abersek is a public person, she's a nurse, but in the Split hospital there's a small number of cleaning girls, assistants, some technical staff official and 10, 15, nurses from 1500 to 2000 nurses. Therefore, it does not represent in the hospital absolutely, I will not say anything but almost no strength and she now has these assistants, or let's say these few carpenters represent and speak on behalf of the doctor, present themselves, represent the doctors of the Split hospital where 500 specialists and 100 more of these. You're losing the election on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100631	Thank you. Thank you very much. Replication response. Turn off the microphone. Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100632	Well, I think the esteemed representative needs to look at the numbers. 80% of the negotiating committees formed under this law are formed by agreement, and that's probably your goal, too, you've been the director, you've got all the unions in front of you and you're all negotiating with everyone. But you or I, as minister, will not condition the unions who join and who sits at the table. The law gave you a very clear opportunity, no matter how many members you have sitting at the table, agree and... Represent your views in the negotiations before the employer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then if you're unhappy with what you've achieved, then you can go into industrial action. And that's the way. Again, the trade union is a strong union and all those who go into collective bargain negotiations clearly want to have that union with them. And there are no problems in these other activities. It is clear that once again when they negotiate on the railway that they will include the engineers' union in the negotiations, so naturally, because if the engineers are not satisfied with their position, or maybe another union that is not satisfied with what the employer has suggested will agree with the engineers' union to go into industrial action, trains will stop and that is it. Nobody makes it impossible to negotiate professionally and don't put something on this government that she hasn't done or done. We're negotiating with everyone. I note that the medical union is in negotiations for a basic collective agreement and I urge that the unions sit down as many as there are in health care, 5, 6, 10, 15, to sit down at the table and agree on representativeness, so that they are all representative and to negotiate with the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100633	Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100634	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, I appreciate you as a doctor, and I must say that I greatly appreciate the medical profession, and I'm surprised by that, and I'd like to correct you as well. When you said that no government has ever done anything about union association, and now it's about doctors. Mr. Minister, as a doctor, are you aware that no government has ever humiliated so much, now I'm going to talk about doctors, doctors like this government did? And unfortunately, the minister who is also a prominent doctor, former Minister Ostojic, unfortunately humiliated them. She humiliated them in a way that she called them non-workers, that she said that the ducks were a medical circus, that they called preparedness unhappiness, and you know well what it means to be medically prepared, that the overtime was being introduced to them, then they were paying for some under 30 kuna. I talked to some doctors at the time, the top doctors who told me, you know, we're cleaning up our 35 kuna department, not humiliating the work of a lady who cleans up, but respecting the profession and respecting the importance of doctors and those general practices and top doctors. So the thing is, until now, this government has never been so humiliated as to be a medical profession and because of all these problems related to the union.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100635	My colleagues, this really wasn't a replica, but it wasn't appropriate as you said. Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100636	Humiliation and non-indignity will be spoken by citizens in the elections, so let's leave it for that part. But what I would do again on my side, no matter what I'm a doctor, but I'm also a minister and I'm protecting the system I'm headed on. And the system is very clear, so negotiating yes, joining unions yes, representativeness yes, professional collective contract no. But the negotiation you have a professional union in is the strongest. Why shouldn't doctors be the ones to fight that cleaning lady's salary higher than Minister Varga now suggests in a border collective contract. And they say no, we don't want to sign such a collective contract because the salaries of cleaning women are embarrassingly low, we're satisfied with what we've chosen, but we want to fight for you too because we have this power to stop the system. And it's the strength of the trade unions, not to fight for themselves alone, because they have the strength to fight for others who may not have as much power as the trade union does. And that's what happened to us in the negotiations on several occasions that the professional union has won greater rights for that other union that may not have as much power as the professional union does. Therefore, what this government wants is that when we talk about negotiating it to be clear, transparent, and as far as representativeness is concerned, we do not prevent any trade union from participating in collective bargain negotiations. You can see it in the railroad, you can see it in air traffic, you can see it in other professions, when we're talking about the driver's union. Therefore, you have very clearly now and negotiations in Zagreb Holding, also the trade union is part of the negotiating committee, there is about 15 or 20 unions sitting together and said no matter how many members there are in Holding we are all representative and we are part of the negotiating committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100637	Thank you, Minister. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100638	Thank you very much. Minister Mrsic says negotiations with professional unions would fragment the system, you literally said. So how do you even see what your government is doing? Prime Minister Milanovic or they, we have already fragmented the system into two parts immediately. Secondly, you have now adopted measures to forgive debts affecting about 13.5 thousand Croatian citizens, we have fragmented that group, the Association of Blocked Prosecutors of the Government and the State. Next, you fragmented the Swiss franc law freezing to 6.39 when the first measure to a million kuna credit was passed. And then the second measure with an amendment of over a million kuna, so you forgot about the OPG and craftsmen, so you fragmented our society and system, and then you passed next week a new law involving both craftsmen and OPGs. So the fragmentation is permanently present in the functioning of this government, permanently present. And when you talk about doctors fighting only for their own, so there's a Doctor's Union, there's a Sisters' Union, etc. So there are parties here who fight exclusively for one part of our population, so I won't name names, but there are political parties who are in charge and who are exclusively fighting for this population in Croatian society. Why wouldn't doctors have the right to fight for their rights? And there's something else I wanted to tell you. You're very clever, so I'm not going to say a little bit of a perfiduous manipulation of words that the professional union has the right to negotiate, even to organize, of course. But does he have the right and power to outvote himself in the border union with others? That's the problem. That's what I'm talking about. So, if you were some kind of fair play in the talks so that when the doctor's problems are in deals with the government, let the doctors make a deal. I know that nurses' salaries are also low, that they barely survive, and not to mention auxiliary staff, that's exactly all. Just one more sentence. You have to decide what country is strategically significant, medical care? Tell her? Does it matter to the state? Well, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100639	Thanks, buddy. Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100640	The state is an important system and maintenance of the system in health care. But you have confirmed my thesis, so when the negotiating committee is in which the professional union is then, the possibility that another union that is not medically perhaps will be elected for better rights because it has a union of doctors who can very easily organise a strike. And on the other hand, doctors, so through their professional union, through the board, so through the negotiating board defends and seeks their rights. If they are not satisfied, it is clear that they can step out of it and launch an industrial action. Where did we get the union rights? Nowhere. Therefore, the trade union has strong power and all those negotiating and in the union stand clearly will include the trade union. And that professional union, let's say by some miracle in health care, the unions agree to be together and all negotiate together clearly that in these negotiations, the doctor's professional union will advocate medical rights and seek its rights. They won't be looking for this other union. And if doctors in these negotiations are not satisfied, they can launch an industrial action, or strike because their rights are not met through negotiations for a border collective agreement. And so it has been so far. There were no other problems. Why this is happening now is an open question why don't the unions sit at the table and agree. But again, when they negotiate together a union of nurses and a union of doctors, they can fight much greater and much stronger rights than if they negotiate separately. And on the other hand, if the medical union is not satisfied with these negotiations, it can always end negotiations and go into industrial action. No rights disabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100641	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100642	Final proposal of the Act on the Completion of the Law on the Representativeship of Associations, Employers and Trade Unions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 788. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 78 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 28 votes against Law P.Z. No. In the text proposed by the applicant, in 788.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100643	We move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 787; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the proposer, the final draft of the law will be explained by the Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mr Zeljko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100644	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Social Encouragement Law was passed in 2001 and so far, the law has built a total of 6319 apartments in 76 local self-government units. The total investment value for these 6319 apartments amounts to about $3.1 billion and for which the Republic of Croatia has invested more than 759 million with the aim of stressing that the incentive funds are return funds and are returning when the loan is paid for the apartments. The current implementation of the law has seen a trend in lack of interest in the purchase of apartments. However, there is still the need for interested citizens to address the housing issue but although interested in resolving one of the key life issues, it is difficult to decide on long-term borrowing. In addition to the above, it is necessary to highlight the growing number of interested citizens who can achieve adequate housing resolution, since the growing number of potential customers is creditworthy. The proposed amendments and additions allow for the resolution of the housing issue in an appropriate manner for interested citizens who meet the prescribed conditions and by renting apartments under conditions that are more favourable than on the market. This realises three objectives, makes it easier for citizens to resolve the housing issue, increase the labour mobility of the population, and start investment in the construction sector. In addition to the economic viability of rentals for potential tenants, it is necessary to highlight both the legal arrangement and the security provided by renting the apartment to the building of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the proposed reduction in interest rates at which the interest payments are reduced from 2% to 1% and interest on the credit funds of the Republic of Croatia were reduced in the proposal from 5% to 3%. Such changes shall address the impact of value added tax on building land and shall ensure the purpose of the socially stimulating housing programme in relation to the market interest rates on housing loans. According to the single credit line in the social incentive housing system, with 50% of the assets being purchased by apartments and loans from commercial banks and 50% ensuring that the Republic of Croatia has significant savings after the repayment period, unlike the classic lines of commercial banks. This reduction in interest rates refers to apartments that are in construction and sale. Lastly, in relation to the provisions relating to the Agency for Legal Traffic and Real Estate Intermediation and other non-profit legal persons proposed by amendments and additions, the irregularities observed in the current application of the law are clarified and the rights and obligations of agencies and non-profit legal persons established by units of local self-government relating to the keeping of full records of sales apartments, rental apartments, same collection, paid funds and contributions to financial and other obligations relating to the promotion of housing under the Social Incentives Act are clarified. Summary, proposed amendments and amendments to the law consist of three elements. First, the possibility of building apartments for a social lease with the possibility of a ransom. Second, the adjustment to the new provisions of the Law on value added tax in the part of land tax. And thirdly, the removal of the perceived indiscretions in the existing law and its implementation. In view of the apartments located in the construction and sale, the law in question is proposed to be adopted by an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100645	Thank you very much. Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100646	Dear Mr. Uhlir, you've come to the Parliament to present a law of your own in relation to the consequences of the citizens very important. From the pay phone, you read 80% of the text from the status assessment that we as MPs got. You don't have to come read what we have in writing. I expected you today to fix this nonsense from the text so say, I quote, "There is still a need for citizens to resolve housing issues." How many citizens in the Republic of Croatia exist when you wrote this bill that needs help to resolve housing issues. Do you know that or just realize that there are citizens who have to solve the housing issue? I quote you the second time, there are fewer citizens in charge of buying an apartment. There are 12 to 15 thousand empty apartments on the Croatian market that citizens cannot buy. How many credit incompetent citizens have you produced in the last three years? Third quote, the aim of the law is to make it easier for citizens to buy an apartment. How many squares? This law extends the possibility of renting an apartment, how many apartments are planned to be built in this next year for rent and under what conditions. Finally, at this point, the number of empty uninhabited dwellings owned by the Republic of Croatia are state-owned where DUDI has not opened up competitions for years or offers to the citizens in this model. So do you know, I'm asking you seriously if you know you own state-owned apartments that are empty and that's how they get devastated, and you haven't calculated them, and you haven't said a word about it. I think you've treated the Parliament quite irresponsiblely with such an introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100647	Thank you very much. Replication response, Zeljko Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100648	Dear Parliamentarian, I will try to answer a number of questions you have said. First, how much there is in the Republic of Croatia. We see it through surveys that we conduct through units of local self-government, that's first, and the second measure is according to the lists that are formed to buy apartments. So in Zagreb there is a list of 1500 names, there is another list in the town of Split, there is a third list in the town of Osijek, so each city has another list. You're asking how many citizens aren't creditworthy. Of course we're not going from one citizen to another and we're asking him if he needs an apartment and if he's creditworthy, but we see on this list how many people are falling off the list when the time comes that they need to fulfill their creditworthiness. From that number you can see, it's large numbers, it's over y. The number of people who aren't creditworthy. The price of the apartment. The price of the apartment is also dependent on how many units of local self-government participate in covering the cost of construction in socially stimulating housing and under the law can vary, i.e. the maximum price of the apartment can be 1125 euros. What we achieve, I stress depending on the participation of the local self-government unit, we have excellent results in coastal areas where and below 900 euros are sold apartments in Pula and Umag. You also asked how many empty apartments are owned by the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we have this information about how empty the apartments are, and DUDI has made it public on his websites, which are apartments. According to the data I have very few of those apartments that are really usable, these are mostly apartments that are devastated, abandoned and not currently capable of renting. What's capable, that's what DUDI's doing according to his program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100649	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100650	Thank you very much. Here's when a man reads the law then sees that the weak coordination and what we know as representatives of the units of local regional administration that we've been working on, so you just mentioned DUDI, I think that this coordination is bad, that there are dozens of apartments that have not been provided with the possibility that the most socially sensitive groups can reach that apartment. We know and wrote as a unit of local administration that there are dwellings that the state does not call for competition, as well as business spaces, not for months, no property is put into operation for years. And also by looking at this law and just now you've combined prices, prices in Osijek are almost over, so we'll tell you as well as the market and then your lack of interest sentence, so you can say that there's almost no interest, and while you build an object of people cool down, and we see that the market is disturbed, we see there's 15 thousand housing units on the market that haven't been sold. And it certainly needs to change politics, not the interest rate thing that you've listed here, but the full policy because this sentence that you state in the proposal itself, which is the mobility of the population. Our population has become so mobile that I'm afraid that the decline of the population we have in Croatia that we'll still feel on the next list, we'll have a lot of housing units that have been filled up so far but people leave Croatia with bread. The policy must therefore be changed and the market left to the market. We're killing a construction operation just with these models that you're giving.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100651	Replication response, Zeljko Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100652	Dear Representative, prices in Osijek mention that they are the same as on the market, but the important element of this programme of socially stimulating housing is a credit line which, apart from that, means in social promotional housing, provides lower prices, and an additional credit line consisting of 50% of the commercial bank's assets, 50% of the Republic of Croatia, makes an additional difference in final payment and we calculated up to 15%. As far as the construction industry is concerned, the problem occurred at a time when social housing was completely abandoned, i.e. they were sold and the market was left to the construction industry, i.e. those who started to invest were not ready for it. The construction industry needs first of all to build apartments, not to be an investor. And that's why we're opening this so they can still build with their cooperatives. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100653	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100654	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. So it was very interesting for you to listen, we're going to cancel this, we're going to cancel that, we're going to cancel the introduction of a value added tax on building land, we're going to cut interest rates, and then the man goes back a little bit to the beginning of the text, and the appraisal of the necessary funds for all of this set doesn't need to provide additional resources. Now I don't understand if you're basically changing the law to improve models, to make it easier for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to settle their housing issues, then how is it not necessary to provide additional funds? The other thing, unfortunately one form that was shyly introduced into residential encouraging construction, which is the addition of family houses and one element that doesn't cost a bit now, is actually not even a small one, and that is the legalization of the buildings of many building buildings that are made are not at all treated as encouraging housing building. Perhaps the upgrade of family houses and assistance in legalization, because watch the legalization of a family house is about 70, 80,000 kuna in terms of when many Croatian citizens are out of work it is practically an unsettled dream for them. Therefore, when we talk about a law like this, then I think that all opportunities that young people and other citizens of the Republic of Croatia can address, should be taken into account. And the other thing, no chemistry, no alchemy, you can't make up for the funds if you say you're going to cut something, and at the same time you're saying you don't have to provide additional funds. Therefore, the Government has also proposed to this House, Madam Vice-President, a law that is contrary to the Fiscal Responsibility Act because this law has not made an assessment and an assessment of the fiscal impact, and therefore it is as such under our Rules of Procedure not ok.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100655	Answer to Deputy Secretary Zeljko Uhlir's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100656	Look, the esteemed MP doesn't need any extra funding because we're reducing the interest rates on people's credit returns. So we're reducing the interest rates the state would charge. We don't spend... But we're not asking for additional funds from the budget to implement this measure, we don't need them. ... [[You can't hear it.]] We don't need them, especially not in this year because it's a loan refund only after 15 years. [[You can't hear it.]] After 15 years, the first part of the commercial part of the credit bank is paid off, and only then to activate the repayment of the funds of the Republic of Croatia. And secondly, this law has a strict purpose. So, it can't be used for everything that's in our way, or for legalization, but it encourages building new apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100657	Injury of Rules of Procedure Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100658	Madam Vice President, you were supposed to give a warning to the Deputy Minister because he told a lie, because he said something that was contrary to the laws passed by this House of Highs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, you can't tell if you're reducing the state budget's revenues that that's not the means needed. This is the necessary funding, as this amount will reduce the revenues of the state budget And that's what funds are needed. [[Thank you very much.]] Because by law you have to indicate if the law works both positively and negatively on the income side and if it works positively and negatively on the expenditure side. That's the facts. Therefore, as a representative of the Government, you cannot speak in such a way, and you should have warned him in accordance with Article 238. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100659	It's your grade, and I'm assessing that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure and there was no need for intervention on my part. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100660	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, 6319 apartments have been built since 2001. It was invested in huge taxpayers' money from the Republic of Croatia. And today a large number of these apartments are staring empty. Wasn't it time to consider it to be the wrong housing policy at this point and that it should not continue as such. You said there's a lack of interest and that people find it hard to decide to take credit, take credit. Logically difficult to decide, it is logical that I cannot do this in view of the absurdity of the situation we have in Croatia. We are the land of empty houses and empty dwellings on the one side, and on the other hand, we are the land in which the day is cast out into the street. I ask myself a question to you, should it really be the state that builds and sells apartments or rents? Or the state should be the one who, along with local self-government, will take care of those who are socially endangered, and this can be solved in a number of ways, and I'll do that a little later. On the other hand, to encourage and subsidise private entrepreneurship that will build apartments, primarily for the sake of what my colleague Bubalo was saying for mobility and labour and for the people of the Republic of Croatia, apartments primarily for rent, even looking for grants for young couples to be able to live and handle housing issues. I think the issue of housing policy is what needs to be discussed and that this law will in principle be very little resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100661	Thank you. Deputy Minister's reply to the replica. My colleague Zeljko Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100662	Thank you. Dear MP, when it comes to 6000 built, more than 6000 apartments since 2001 are now only talking about apartments built in a socio-enhancing apartment, and they are all sold. So there are no empty apartments. The second thing was the failed investment attempts by private entrepreneurs that are empty today. Now the second question would be, i.e. concerns the part of whether it is the state that should build and deal with the sale and rental of apartments. So this law, which was passed since 2001, shows that it is obvious that there is a need for the state to help some groups of citizens who cannot solve their issue on the market, especially by extending what we have for the case today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100663	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100664	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, I agree, I also told you on the board that this model in which the state in the housing market competes with entrepreneurs by means of the state budget and which it makes private entrepreneurs who pay taxes exactly for this same activity is not a good solution. And I'll talk about it a little bit more on behalf of the club later. And I agree with all those who have said that it is not good that the state in the housing market appears as a competitor to entrepreneurs who pay taxes and finance exactly that activity with which they are competing. That's one thing. The second thing, you did not explain to Mr. Shucker until the end either in the law or in the manner in which the state will finance the construction of rental apartments and argue that no additional funding should be provided in the state budget. In fact, if the exact amount of the rent paid by the future tenant of this apartment is not covered by the loans to be paid. Therefore, the difference between the lease and the amount of credit and the payment war must be further charged at APN positions and the APN is in the state budget system in the positions of the state budget. Therefore, it will have to provide for this model in which interest is reduced and when renting through the rent it will have to provide these additional funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100665	Replication response, Zeljko Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100666	Thank you. The state is competing with entrepreneurs, we cannot say that the state is competing with entrepreneurs because the state is allowing them to work and to carry out their primary activity, which is the construction and craft used in the construction of apartments. The other thing is investors. If investors from 2001 to 2015 6,000 apartments mean something, then, that needs to be helped, that citizens are in a very difficult situation. But state investors don't mind. And yet, the builders are helped to open new jobs for them. As for the response to which the rent of apartments will be financed, the rent of apartments will be financed from those assets already in that position of POS. Because we're not looking for new funds. And we'll do apartments for rent from what we'll build less for sale. It was simply that trend that more what I said in the introduction that people were no longer our credit rating, that long-term liabilities were no longer attracted to them and that they were more likely to rent than to buy an apartment, so these funds would be directed to this side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100667	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100668	As you said, Your Honor, Deputy, therefore, that the need for socially encouraged housing exists, that there is no unsold apartment, that in this way it makes it easier for citizens especially young families with more children to reach their own living space, that the state is helping to make this a law which, in the end, is every responsible authority and duty, and I congratulate you on that. And for all the bile you see, which comes often and unfortunately on this side, to me on the left, unfortunately comes precisely because you do it well for the citizens and what the citizens will recognize. And you see now, but here's a suggestion, just because many are crying right now, here's what's going to happen to the builders because these apartments are going to have an advantage? So here's what I'm proposing to you, and for them right now, that banks and builders who, in times of crisis, keep locked up and apartments on pay no one anything, these apartments end up falling apart, here's another initiative that if they don't put it on the market favorably or on rent that they get nice to them and that in that way we go from the richest property tax. To tax their property, those dwellings that stare empty, and then this part on our side on our left, otherwise the right hand will not whine over those builders. I think it will be good for them, too, because it is a pity that such dwellings also stand empty, and they have shamelessly kept him high today and overrated.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100669	Zeljko Uhlir, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100670	Thank you, Madam Representative. So exactly the state has many mechanisms with which it can regulate the situation in the housing market and one of the attempts that was made by both our ministry and other colleagues from the government was to negotiate with large investors and banks the possibility of activating these empty apartments, however, it is obvious that at this point they were not yet interested, i.e. they can still hold these empty apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100671	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Space Planning and Construction Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100672	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the 43rd session held on 4 February, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Socially Encouraged Apartment, as a parent working body. The Board members were informed that the implementation of the Law on Socially Encouraged Apartmentry built slightly more than 6,000 dwellings in 76 units of local self-government and invested more than 3 billion kunas for which the Republic of Croatia invested more than 759 million kuna through incentives. And 1559 more apartments are under construction in seven cities and municipalities. There are also indications of the reasons why amendments and amendments to the law are proposed and the urgency of adoption related to the opportunity and hearing in the opening presentation, with the provisions of the Law on value added tax applicable to land taxation in force. Without the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Social Encouragement, there would be an increase in the repayment rate of loans and a significant purchase of apartments for final customers who would be in unfavourable conditions compared to those who bought apartments under the POS programme. The implementation of the applicable Law on Social Encouragement has seen reduced interest in the purchase of dwellings and the present need to address housing problems for people who are not considered socially endangered. And in order to enable the settlement of the housing issue to obtain credit, the tenants will be offered the conclusion of a lease agreement with the possibility and purchase of an apartment. The debate also requested clarification of the concept of adapting the situation on the market, as well as potential conflict with the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy in the section relating to the municipal contribution and the municipal compensation, and related to the participation of local self-government units in the financing of municipal infrastructure. As part of the members of the Committee on the Prior Notice, the opinion was that the provision of the above article clearly states that the unit of local self-government regulates the issues of residential needs in its area of purchase and rental, and that if the unit of local self-government participates in the settlement of land prices and municipal infrastructure, these costs should be reimbursed from the charged purchase price of the apartment or from the leases in the proposed procedure and prescribed time. Although the opinion has been expressed that so far, the application of the Law on Social Encouragement has not built a number of apartments that would affect the real estate market, it is nevertheless pointed out that to some extent, it is competing with those not entrepreneurs but with their own funds or assets of commercial banks which have built apartments under a more unfavourable condition and which are now losing some value on the real estate market. When asked about how to save by buying apartments according to the proposed model, it is responsible to apply a single credit line in which, with 50% of the purchase funds, commercial banks and 50% of the RH, a reduction of interest rates from 2 to 1 and 5 to 3 would be used to cancel the impact of the tax on the additional value to be calculated on the building land. Since it is said that construction is currently being considered in the area of Osijek, Zagreb, or larger towns of Split, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, it is proposed that an enhanced model be developed to stimulate the building of apartments and smaller environments. Therefore, the Committee also supported the provisions governing the possibility of building housing for social rentals with the possibility of purchases, which has a particular impact on the working mobility of the population and the expansion of the purpose of building apartments and the employment and construction profession. After the debate was held, the Committee on Spatial Editing of Most Votes 7 for and 2 abstentions proposed to the Parliament the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100673	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Damir Kajin and Ivan Grubisic. They're not present, the club is losing the right to debate on this wheel. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic, colleague Slavko Linic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100674	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague here we see two contradictions within the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Construction which monitors what is happening in Croatia, what changes we note in Croatia and reacts with such changes and additions of laws that should really be supported, but we are wondering whether it is justified to talk today about amendments and additions to the Law on Social Encouragement Building for the simple reason that there is no need for this law to continue to exist, there is no need. But the ministry responds in due time, bringing in the possibility of renting, which is not the purpose of socially stimulating housing construction. And for one reason only, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not adopt the House Construction Act with its social policy. Therefore, the lack of social sensitivity of the government, which had to understand that such a question must solve the problems of Croatian citizens as it solves the health system, should also have a housing policy in Croatia in view of the current situation. We don't have it and that's why we're discussing the amendments and additions to this law today because the ministry feels the need for the state to help citizens secure their basic living needs without counting education, which is housing. And there is no doubt that today in Croatia we have a huge decomposition, we have a small number of wealthy people and a huge number of poor people, people who have lost their jobs, with low pensions, people who have low wages. And unfortunately, the people who were at the time of the expansion were so in debt that they were forever financial slaves. That this is a reality in Croatia, that cannot be responded to by the Ministry of Civil Engineering, is what the government needed with its social policy. And there's no doubt that this government and all local self-government units must have an obligation to build cheaper apartments but to rent. Well, you'll allow her to say that from next year we're going to introduce a real estate tax. According to which citizens can financially withstand a loan, a commitment, a possible tax? Well, that won't hold. Nowhere in the world you have so many citizens who own real estate, that's our past. Today if we have 330 thousand citizens who can't serve their obligations, there's no way we're gonna have new citizens to build squares, we don't. But that we must have citizens who have the right to enter the apartment in some way by cheaper rents, more affordable rents, depending on their pension, is unfortunately many of our pensioners will lose their apartments, whether it's for credit, whether it's for Swiss purposes, because of excessive card spending. Talk to people, you'll be shocked, they've lost everything they haven't paid off yet. Well, they need a low-rent apartment. This must provide them with state and local self-government and regional units. That they must, but through a very clear social housing policy that must be the subject of debate in this House, which must be a clear government policy that has social sensitivity. We don't have that. And at that point, we stay on the old solutions at the time of expansion when we still had something more acceptable in debt, and not knowing that we wouldn't be able to repay it. And now in replicas we all turn to that part, but try to figure out the proposal that we got from the competent ministry is an attempt to save an existing situation. Citizens really need cheaper rents. Cities need to be pushed and bound by the law to build apartments for their citizens, not to sell them, in order to provide them with a simple cheaper rent. But this cheaper rental will help everyone because it will also be some kind of high-rent regulator because individuals still highly value their properties and rent at very high prices, so our citizen is in that part, too, when we look at the private sector, is in great danger. And not to mention changing the tax rules, that we're simply burdening now and renting with certain tax rates. And not to mention that registration that was avoided until yesterday, etc. Therefore, we will also regulate the rent market with such new proposals. That is why I believe that this solution should be accepted, but it is very clear that a request should be made to the government to create a social housing policy as a programme through legal solutions so that we can leave, I would say to the surviving legal possibility to talk about socially stimulating housing. Why? Is that where I expect you not to solve the question of a new lease, but I guess we would and will solve what some of the rich live in state housing, and we're not selling it, and we could sell it. A lot of people would like to buy. Well, not only that, but with various nationalizations, we have a fifth, a sixth, a seventh of the apartment that's owned by the state, the owners can't buy it. In that part, we're completely inert. And instead of collecting money if we have it, that's what we say, this government doesn't know how to manage its properties, its assets. And instead of collecting money so that we don't just take from new taxes, from the state budget, but to secure funds and sell to all those who can buy and want to buy the state housing they live in. But then with that money, we'll take care of these inadequate apartments that are empty. And it's a construction job, so we can take care of them and rent them. And there's no doubt that out of the total number of cities, 30% of those who have to have a legal obligation to invest in building apartments. And the agency should build for smaller cities, municipalities because there should be a more reasonable policy. and we will then decide that some citizens who have below 5,500 kuna average salaries, pensioners who have lost their property can go through living lists, whether local self-government or the agency itself would take over that role in some way provide decent living conditions in an apartment that the state has arranged if it is a former apartment or a new apartment that the local unit or city has built from the dedicated budget funds or by managing the property itself. Therefore, the promoter himself makes it clear to us that he has no interest, no economic power, no more possibility that a citizen who needs an apartment as a basic living need can no longer buy it, can't get it and give it the possibility of rent, of course, with the possibility of always buying out whether any of these citizens today can change their economic and property situation and income side. So let's give him a chance to buy it because it will always mean the means to build a new building, increase construction and solve someone else. Yeah, that's what we want to make clear. Also know that one who can buy an apartment does not need to get out of the social programme, because this is also a kind of social programme, socially-oriented housing, there is no need for such a man who can economically afford an apartment to provide it with such conditions. No, have the apartment secure on the market. It's social policy. We must distinguish between the rich and those who are economically incapacitated to secure a new apartment and property over that apartment. Therefore, this very decomposition had to force us to replace this solution so far with a clear social policy in the area of housing. And of course that moment with me increased, because renting an apartment means certainly more apartments, better property management, higher incomes that will allow simply this increased housing building, we will also provide the necessary economic activity for the construction activity. There's no doubt about it. Therefore, it does not give up living building, not but turn it into a full social policy. So I am starting this debate in the Croatian Parliament we need to use it to in some way admit that the Ministry of Construction had a sense of huge decomposition, social separation in the Republic of Croatia and offered solutions through renting an apartment. But also for the conclusions of this House that we are demanding within a short period of time a social policy in a section of housing policy which would indeed oblige local self-government and state units to build social housing for rent. We leave everything else to the markets and be assured that the lack of credit users will make banks give very favourable conditions to those who can economically define their own apartments. And that is why I think it is necessary to accept this proposal to amend and supplement but only as a transitional period until the government adopts a clear social housing policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100675	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100676	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Col. Linic, I agree with you that the provisions of the law should be supported, especially in the part where this law reduces interest on public funds and cancels the increase in VAT on the transport of building land, which then resulted in an increase in the cost of dwellings by about 4%. I have to tell you, I never agreed with this model. And with the correction of Mr. Deputy, it does not seem to be a fact that there are currently no unsold apartments in the POS system because on the pages of the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate at the moment it is built, i.e. better put with the situation on 1 January 2015. 1389 apartments that are in construction. And out of them, 1389,950 are unsold apartments, so right now. And this model does not have a great public interest because, it is just before, you can reach the price offered throughout Croatia in this project POS without talking about more quality building, i.e. the unquality building of apartments in the POS system. I will discuss this later and there are numerous examples in Croatia. And I also agree with you that it is good for the government to intervene on the market with the construction of rental apartments and it can be accepted and it is good, although even in the existing law there is and it is possible that apartments can be built through the POS system for the needs of local self-government units and other legal persons in Croatia. So it's not something new. But I'm not sure, however, I don't think it's well solved through these amendments to the law, the question of building apartments for rent in the Republic of Croatia. And here I could agree with you that the government should come up with a whole program, a housing building strategy to get rid of both housing and help the construction sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100677	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100678	Well, I agree with you that there are more apartments that haven't been sold. Well, this solution will also help, in fact, to have citizens who can't buy and can't buy, but it will be able to pay a more acceptable rent especially when we see that, through lower interest on part of the government, it certainly wants to lower the price of rent as low as possible. But we also need to understand with an average salary of 5500 kuna in Croatia with more than 330 thousand who do not repay loans and which are payable in an impossible situation, no one will choose to buy an apartment. At the same time, I believe that we were obliged to say very clearly that sometimes what we had in socialism, which is the tenancy right that was a kind of ownership relationship, so we turned it into a ownership relationship through sales, it won't be in Croatia anymore. He won't. More and more citizens, especially younger ones, will be economically incompetent due to a low pay average for any duties, for any duties. Plus, we have to understand, a citizen should live, invest in children, invest in education, and in order to invest then he must not rob himself in the next 25 years with high credit rates. When we simply see no problem in living in someone else's apartment, especially if it is a local self-government unit and a Croatian state with a decent rent. And we will slowly adapt to what is called Europe because it is so common in the world. Few who owns it, the one who has the money is the one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100679	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100680	Thank you very much. Comrade Linic, you've elaborated some things nicely, but I think we should go 14 years back. It's the beginning of 2002 when POS left. What was the value of apartments on the market then, how much was it according to POS. Then there was a stamp, there was a conversion of stamp-euro and the prices went up, the wages didn't go up. Several times I dared to give some criticism, such a model of POS got by his nose because of certain stakeholders. However, I think that today Croatia should think first of all about its residential potential. And I'll by no means know what time I'm talking about upgrades to family homes. Many family homes are generally untapped today, but one or two old people live in 150 or 200 square meters. Far easier to make, upgrade one... apartment in an existing family house or edit a floor than go to build a new housing unit as it happens. But also, we're blind. When it suits us, we'll talk praises about the write-off of debts, when it suits us, then we'll write praises about how we solve the problem of the franc, how we solve the problem of these Austrian cooperatives, and don't keep counting. But let's put ourselves in a position of all those people who have suffered and lost their jobs and one credit fear that is definitely ruling in Croatia today. We can be smart here as much as we want, but if you have a friend who's lost his job or who's raised a loan in Swiss and is going through all these traumas, you're going to have a very hard time deciding on a new credit line for the next 30 years in this kind of uncertainty that we have. Therefore, considering this all together should simply find a model as it will be called but which corresponds to the moment in which Croatia lives. But why, are we here in the Parliament to dare say something that someone does not dare say or are here just because we receive pay and we do not care what happens to the citizens of Croatia. We here need to be their voice and we here have to say what they don't have a chance to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100681	Thank you. We've got three more lines, so we'll finish it before we break. Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100682	I agree completely with you, and there's something else I'd like to point out. The government also achieves certain things by tax policy. Our biggest problem is the property tax we're afraid to introduce for a simple reason because a lot of citizens have assets and economically small incomes. So now if you have big assets and small incomes, it's always a question of how you pay your taxes. But the law that was made in 2012 made it clear that the tax burden should be placed on the one who did not have the property in office. So if you taxed a lot of empty apartments, believe me, they'd rent out. What would happen then? The rent would have dropped. So we're the ones who don't influence a citizen living in a better time with our tax policies. Because if you had all the apartments that you have empty and you started taxing these newly built ones, so what the state has, and it's not going to arrange and not going out, tax it all, I'm telling you right now would be on the market, arranged and renting with this amount of flats that are nothing but dead capital, you would give citizens a more decent life and a more comfortable life, without fear of being chased away by someone. Because when you've got a big offer, everyone's going to guard their own landlord, everyone's going to keep him safe, they're not going to make him. So it's tax policy that is that we went to a social housing policy solution and we would solve that part, because it's essential to let citizens live decently, let's give them that apartment and move them away from having to be the owner. When all this is settled, we will see that the situation in Croatia will be quite different.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100683	Ada Damian, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100684	I'd like to thank the esteemed vice president. Comrade Linic, when you mentioned the former housing fund, you came back some time ago. We all singled out employees in that housing fund and eventually bought those apartments and bought them out. Well, I'd say it wasn't there anymore. But let us turn to what is now, which is that at this time when the purchasing power of our citizens has fallen, when most citizens have become creditworthy, then this is the only way for our young and social categories of our citizens to reach some residential roof over their heads, to some space. And just by including units of local self-government, state and other factors, the cost of costing a square meter of living space is reduced. The economic price of squares on the Adriatic is up to 2,000 euros, and the price of POS apartments is around 900 euros. Thus, we can thus enable our people to buy these apartments. And units of local self-government are included in another way, all unsold apartments of the local self-government unit commit to buy and share with their citizens, i.e. to rent them those apartments. Therefore, these are the social categories of citizens you are talking about and the possibility of exactly renting such apartments. And as for the property tax, so here I agree with you as well, so let the property tax be introduced more, especially among the rich, because in that way we'll be able to better credit the housing for that most vulnerable category of poor people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100685	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100686	My colleague, you're talking about your thinking, your policy, and we're not talking about government policy. And I agree with you that there should be a series of possible solutions, but Mrs. MPs, we're only talking about housing building now. It's not social housing policy. The government lacks a very clear message that this is social housing. We have to make big cities, bigger cities than 30,000 that have to have living lists, that they have to build apartments. You're not going to amortize apartments in 20 years, in 40 years. Your rent will be small, I think it must all be written in government policy. Do you realize what we're talking about? If this government hadn't brought housing policy as a social measure which is important, because that's the life needs of citizens, that's the problem. We only talk here where we went to encourage housing so that we can continue our activities in the economic sector and employ construction, on the other hand, to give citizens something more favourable to buy. It's not a social-state policy anymore, we need to change it, something on the trail and what you're saying. But in order for us to do so, we must have an act of government, an act of this Parliament. That's the law, that's the strategy in which we're really going to talk about it. That's what we're missing and at this point, the situation is how the Ministry of Construction saves us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100687	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100688	Thank you very much. Comrade Linic, the situation with these POS apartments is not the same everywhere. Namely, the price of the apartment in Slavonia, the market price of the apartment almost, I would say, close the price of POS apartments per square metre. I don't actually know from this report, or this bill says 6319 apartments were built at the price of 3 billion etc. But I don't know how many square meters it's built. So to know exactly how much the price of a square meter of POS apartment cost, let me put it this way, to cut the story short. So I figured there was an average of 63,000 euros or 490,000 kuna per apartment, converted into kuna. But what Croatia does not have well noticed, one housing policy. In fact, we listened to the Ministry's own report that there are only 10,000 empty apartments in Zagreb owned by investors, owned by banks, and neither do I, the portfolio of banks, etc. And we can't put that into some kind of function. Furthermore, you said there were so many nursing homes living in houses from 200 to 400 meters of living space. Not that, so you said that maybe a real estate tax would help get rid of that, too. So when we look at the number of empty apartments in the Republic of Croatia, it would almost be said that there is no need for construction. But since the existing resources are being tightened, and to solve the problem of housing, mostly young people who can't, given that there's no job, that their salaries are low, etc., to allow them normal. I agree that the small rent is in relation to the price of an apartment that would sort out the problem mainly in the arrangement of the state and the unit of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100689	Thank you very much. Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100690	Well, the solution is exactly in the rental apartment. Try to understand that the price you spend on building an apartment and transferring to some private owner you can't go with a lower price, you can't go with deductible items, you can give a lower interest. You simply mustn't allow a fortune on the burden of other taxpayers. And winning an apartment is some kind of property that represents wealth. When it comes to rent, you will always have the existing cost of building an apartment to distribute whether for 20, 40, 50 years. Because I don't see any reason to determine that 50 years is the payment of such an apartment. And then it's something that no one has become owner, because it's always state property, it's the property of a local self-government unit, it's just someone using a lease. And then you get economics, I'd say a sustainable model that pays off goes on a large number of years, and you have a low rent. And you just played social policy here, and you didn't transfer property. So these are models to be expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100691	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100692	Mr. Linic, it's you, I agree with you that this is a matter of social policy. But you said in your debate that cities must build apartments and cities above 30,000 inhabitants. I know that today we are discussing the government's project and government obligations. But now I'm turning the saw upside down. And why, do you think it's the interest of these cities to have some new residents come in there? Do you think the Zagrebers are happy to have so many hundreds of thousands of people in Zagreb or some small town? Why don't we turn that housing policy around? Why don't we encourage people to stay in their seats? Today, 20 or 15 km from the city is already a village. Why don't we encourage people to stay there? Why don't we by tax policy make it zero tax if we live in an area outside the city center and keep the people there. Because when he comes to town, he's poor, he's got nothing, and then he becomes a social case, and that particular lack of housing policy or our orientation is strategic, especially tax policy. You for a building permit in the last village have the same obligations as in the center of Zagreb? That's where we need to change the mental circuit. Not all inhabitants of Croatia can live in 4 major cities, of which 2 can possibly build something, and those 2 are in difficult condition. Not to mention these cities that you say 30 thousand inhabitants about. So you're breathing out cities. We keep giving these cities new commitments and no new funds. And now we say let them build apartments. So why build it? They won't encourage that. And then 15 or 20 kilometers from that town, all the kindergartens, all the schools, all the sports halls, they're all falling apart. And there was some money invested, but everyone ran out of those places. So I think we should totally change that policy from tax, then to housing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100693	Slavko Linic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100694	Now, if we go back to the housing lists, it's every city's policy, the housing list for the city. The criteria are mostly the number of years in that city. It means how long you've been in that town, social status, family status, family members. And unfortunately, we would all be happy if we could say that Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek, Pula, Split has resolved the issue of its citizens. Since I was mayor of Rijeka for 10 years, and in wartime, the city itself built apartments for its citizens, and had a list. There are under 5,000 people on that list, and it requires an enormous number. We've got defenders to deal with, and they've been getting rid of them. So try to understand this policy that you're talking about, cities must build, it must be their social obligation but they will have their own criteria. So as far as I'm concerned, no citizen under the age of 10 can live in a town that doesn't have to be listed. Therefore, they will define with their own policies, their lists, and who they will take care of. Because you have your fellow citizens who stay out of their property overnight, who have been kicked out of that property, whose social status has fallen, can no longer pay rent in private accommodation or private property. That's what the city needs to worry about. They still haven't solved the issue of official apartments or apartments like those in schools, janitors and this, what, all this city needs to be solved. That was his legal obligation, too, he didn't solve it. So when I talk about the city's commitment, then I don't think about migration, but first of all, about having a huge number of residents and citizens of that city to be taken care of because it's the social policy of the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100695	Now we'll continue at 15.00 hours. First in line will be my colleague, Nevenka Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100696	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and Croatian Civil Party Nevenka Bečić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100697	Excuse me. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Deputy Minister and his associate, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as you can see, we today had a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on socially encouraged housing with a final draft law. Of course, we also have the information that the government that delivered him to the parliamentary procedure is proposing to adopt the same by an emergency procedure. I'm stressing an emergency procedure. When we read this proposal to amend and supplement this law, we learn that it contains certain positive elements that should regulate the area of housing of a particular category of interested citizens who cannot and are not in a position to resolve their housing issue commercially. So in this sense, as a positive assessment, I appreciate the possibility that our non-credited citizens can provide themselves with these changes and the addition of this law to resolving the housing issue in such a way as to establish a lease relationship so that they can contractly become a tenant in an apartment that is a social property. And in this way a certain category of people would have an additional sense of security because psychologically speaking, it is very positive when someone is living in a social apartment and when they know that no one is going to force them to leave for some reason. So, the sense of security is what I consider positive from the amendment proposal and the addition of this law. Furthermore, through these amendments, this law also requires a reduction in the interest rate on the funds provided for in the Grace period, so the period until the payment of loans taken to purchase an apartment built by means of socially encouraged housing rests from 2% to 1%, and also for the period when the payment begins, reduced interest rates are scheduled from 5% to 2%, from 5% to 3%, I apologize. However, with this reduction of interest, no users or acquirers will receive such apartments. Because changes and additions to the Value Added Tax Act have led to the situation that the cost of costing built apartments from socially encouraged housing has increased because the construction land, as we know since 1.1, has been paid a value added tax of 25%, while by the end of last year on building land it was prescribed that only the property tax was charged and paid in case and in situations of socially stimulating housing was not accounted for. Therefore, the reduction in the interest rate does not go into favour when we are looking at the effects of the amendments and the addition of this law and the one that was in force until 31.12 last year, so the reduction of these interest rates does not affect anything and does not bring any benefits to future customers of these apartments because it only cancels or amortises an increase in the cost price resulting from changes and additions to the VAT Act. However, what I consider to be positive from this proposal is that this possibility of entering a social-owned apartment should launch some kind of construction operation and encourage activities in the construction sector, which should in itself lead to the creation of a certain number of jobs. Starting from the fact that our economy is in an extremely difficult situation, and in particular, the construction sector as a branch of activity, I think that every measure that promotes the activities of that branch of activity is good. And in that sense, I welcome these changes and additions. But I am very disappointed because I have found that the possibility has been missed through, and when the amendments and additions of this law were already made, the competent government, or the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, has failed to implement positive elements and models that would lead to the solving of long-term problems in the area of housing, which press the protected tenants and private housing owners in which the protected tenants live. As far as the European Court of Human Rights has been in force since October 2014. And I must admit that these negative aspects of deafness, misunderstanding and not finding strength and common sense to finally approach the solution to this problem that has already contributed to many violations of the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia before international institutions. And that is why this proposal is not welcome for me to amend and supplement the law; it does not solve a problem that pressures citizens of one part of the Republic of Croatia and it is not on the trail of enforcement of the European Court of Human Rights ruling. For the sake of our public, I will repeat several facts about which the Government of the Republic of Croatia should take into account because the Government, or the Executive Authority, is responsible for the implementation of all the models and elements of each European Court of Human Rights ruling behind the implementation of the Croatian legislative system and administrative measures and the establishment of a case law based on these developments. Croatia has received a deadline of 10 April 2015 for the development of an action plan, which will specify all the measures by which it intends to resolve the elements and implement in the legislative system of the Republic of Croatia all of what the European Court has called us for in the ruling, which is a violation of the ownership rights of a number of Croatian citizens. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of the EU will oversee and oversee the implementation of these judgments, also controls, examines whether the rules adopted by the State concerned on the basis of the judgment ensure the implementation of that judgment, and then assess whether an adequate time-limit is within which this action plan intends to remove human rights violations, in this case of property rights, and whether these measures are sufficient for the quality of implementation of the judgment in the country concerned in the legislation of that State. In every country, it is the Government who is responsible for meeting its citizens on convention rights. It is also responsible for any European Court of Justice ruling being implemented in the legislative regulation of our host countries. Not resolving the right of the owner undermines the foundations of a democratic society and it is morally unfounded. It is unacceptable for such deafness and inaction to reflect negatively on the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I'm very disappointed when I read this bill when I saw that no measure the European Court asks to implement is contained in this bill which is very surprising because April 10th is close, it is so close. However, we know that the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning has drawn up a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Renting Apartments and that under the Government's programme this law was to be in the parliamentary procedure in February 2014. So there was also a public debate, it was all over, so the period was extended and it seemed to me April 2014 when it was supposed to be in the parliamentary procedure, however it was not, but it was also extended for September 2014 and it was also not in the parliamentary procedure. And notice, this bill that we are discussing today is being adopted by an urgent procedure. Look, I'm underlining an emergency procedure and human rights violation of a certain number of our fellow citizens for this government seems to be not an emergency. The implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling is also not an emergency for this government. It may be waiting for the deadline to pass, to pass the mandate to these parliamentary deputies and to give opportunity to the next government, probably to HDZ to solve this problem. But all those who have had executive power and who have failed to solve this problem will be held accountable before their people for their inaction. Because their inactions harm not only the owners of private apartments in which the protected tenants live, but also the protected tenants and the Republic of Croatia themselves. Why and how I'm going to explain it. By 1974, the then communist government, using force, had moved certain individuals into private apartments. And a large number of such individuals still live in these apartments today and have the status of protected tenants. They suffer great mental pain today because they do not have an apartment in which their children will inherit. Owners suffer other than mental pain and material damage because they cannot enter the property of their apartments, have no ability to dispose of their property. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided them with 2 kunas and 70 limes per metre square, so they suffer enormous material and mental pain and the Republic of Croatia suffers damage. Since my time is coming to an end, I would ask the honourable deputy minister to answer a few questions. How do you plan to resolve the damages because there is also a powerful verdict of the European Court of Justice at 30,000 euros to one owner only to compensate for the price difference in rent without mental pain, without interest? If we multiplied a thousand of our owners by that 30,000 euros, we get 30 million euros. According to me, there are about 2,000 owners who have been violated by ownership rights. So how do you plan to secure 60m euros for compensation and not find the strength to resolve it through legislation and avoid paying those compensations because new lawsuits are being brought before the European Court of Justice against the Republic of Croatia Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time is a colleague of Becic.]] I've run out of time, I'd have a lot more to say, but I'd like to ask the Deputy Minister to answer that and tell me if those who enter the rent of apartments built by the POS system will also pay 2.70 kuna. Well, that would be fair... They married socially. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100698	You've been a little distracted in the debate from the subject of amendments and addition to the law. We have a replica. Two replicas. Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100699	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. Dear colleagues, Becic, in our near history, there are many examples of how the state can wrong its citizens. Well, one of the greatest injustices is the one you've been talking about, which is that by decision of the state many years ago, owners can't use their own property or enter their own apartment because they live in protected tenants. On the other hand, the protected tenants were cut off because many years ago, they found themselves in apartments that were private and not social, so they couldn't buy apartments on relatively favourable terms at the time. And you have well mentioned the European Court of Human Rights rulings which state that a whole set of mechanisms for protecting categories of protected tenants has been installed in Croatian legislation, and otherwise it has been imposed on owners an excessive burden and there is no mechanism to protect them. We hope, however, that soon you and I and many of our citizens will be in some way compensated and satisfied because here we have recently heard announcements from the Ministry that the Law on Renting Apartments, which is already as you mentioned yourself, was finally in the public debate at the Croatian Parliament and that we will believe in the satisfaction of our citizens to bring together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100700	Thank you. My colleague Becic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of König, I agree with everything you have presented, with the addition that the parallel between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia should be withdrawn and that the Republic of Slovenia should have also made an action plan. And that this action plan has recently been developed and handed over to the European institutions, and this is about resolving the old foreign savings for which the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to pay and compensate the owners of these foreign exchange accounts. Likewise, when we withdraw the parallel between one case and the other, the Republic of Croatia should submit an action plan to the European Court of Justice by 10 April, and will monitor the implementation of this plan and control the Committee of Ministers of the European Union. I would also say and point out that I believe the time has come to stop the humiliation of the ruling, the humiliation of the owners and their property rights. Gentlemen, it is your responsibility, the responsibility to execute judgments and the responsibility to affect the final termination of property rights violations and the violation of Article 1. Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100702	Thank you, too. Next replica, Ada Damianac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100703	Thank you. My colleague Bečić, you said and I absolutely agree that the Croatian Government is obliged to install European laws in its legislation, but here we are talking today about social promotional housing, which is its advantage already said in previous discussions and opening words of the deputy minister. What you were talking about should be the subject of other laws, e.g. It's a law of ownership and a law of renting an apartment. In any case, protected tenants need to solve their problem, but also the owner's question. Now, this law really does not have a problem with these tenants being able to come forward as future potential POS users, which is one of the ways of solving and hiring protected and self-owned owners whose apartments they are in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100704	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Becic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100705	Thank you very much. My colleague, you've said several elements I disagree with. You're saying that protected tenants can come forward for the ransom of these apartments, so that's very bad what you said. Namely, why would they answer, so someone forced them to use force in private apartments. The state, this state is obliged to provide them with replacement apartments and to ensure that they are bought under the same conditions as those who have had the right of residence. That's the answer to your second quote. And at first, if I were to come out of the context of the proposal of this law today, I am not going out because exactly the housing problem is being addressed by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on socially encouraged housing, and this is exactly the problem that should have been incorporated into this bill, and in this bill, the models in which the problem in question was to be solved were to be presented. Protected tenants suffer damages, they should be able to buy another replacement apartment under the same conditions, not to apply for them, but to establish the time limits in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia should enable them to buy replacement apartments under the terms of the purchase and the rest. This stands among other things in the European Court of Human Rights ruling. Return of ownership to owners, return of property, and disposal of protected tenants such as other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100706	Thank you, too. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of HDZ Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100707	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. The fundamental reason for the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on socially encouraged housing is in fact to compensate for the expected increase in the price of dwellings as a result of the application of the new value added tax law, which introduced VAT on building land. That was already the case with the introduction of Mr. Deputy and my colleagues and colleagues in their opening speeches, so that I do not refer to it further. In addition to being able to say that in the public and the profession, it is also available to the public that these changes to the VAT Act will result in a 4% increase in the price of the apartment and that changes to the law and the proposed reduction of interest rates on bank assets and state credits will be expected to cancel the impact of VAT on building land. Keeping that the above-mentioned first-line protection will protect customers signatories of pre-negotiations whose apartments are just under construction, we at the HDZ Club are certainly supporting the proposed reduction of interest rates because it will also help them to avoid an increase in the price of the apartment, for which they have already signed the pre-contracts. However, we believe that it is necessary to reconsider in detail the existing model of socially encouraged housing both from the point of view of the justification of its further application and from the point of view of introducing better solutions in favour of housing customers if the Government continues to insist on applying the law or this model. When we talk about better solutions that... have been on track to help citizens resolve the housing issue, we would like to point out that for potential buyers of these apartments, it would be a significant measure to eliminate the customer's participation in the purchase of the situation of 15% of the budget value of the apartment. In fact, it is also a major problem for customers today, since a small number of citizens have cash in that amount, and therefore to ensure the 15% value of the apartment is owed to business banks at market interest far above the one prescribed and thus because of the inability to satisfy, and even that part cannot enter into the realisation of the promotion of the purchase of the apartment and towards socially encouraged housing. If this participation would be reduced by half or if it would be paid when the apartment was moved in, or if it would be paid at the time when the rent of the apartment to the state and units of local self-government could be significantly facilitated even in this model by citizens. Furthermore, for the buyer, a significant measure would constitute a legal restriction on interest or bank interest rates somewhere on the basis of what was in the Law on subsidisation and sale of residential, state-owned dwellings. But they're just, that's just part of it I'd say cosmetic change of law itself. What we're holding is at all a question of the justification of this model of housing. In the light of the law, it states that the proposed changes will allow for the construction of apartments for social rent with the possibility of buying-in. Thus, the question arises if there really is a great interest in buying how does the ministry point out that a large number of built apartments stand unsold? During his introduction, Mr. Deputy said that in the POS system, all apartments were sold which did not comply with the Report of the Agency for Legal Traffic and Real Estates, which states that on 31 December of the 1387 dwellings that were built on that date, only 452 apartments were contracted with buyers. So for 935 apartments, there's no interest in buying, and it's about... of the total number of apartments built at this time in the model of encouraging housing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we are not surprised that the government is precisely because there is a large number of unsold apartments currently in the POS system in the construction sector turning the rent policy. But now the question is, is the basic question of whether this model is designed to be built in POS flats for rent is the right model. We think in the Croatian Democratic Community club that it is not, because the existing model of encouraging housing allows units of local self-government, and also interested legal persons to build apartments for rent through a model of encouraging housing. Therefore, this is not a big step and we are holding, and on the trail of what counterpart Linic was saying, and even before his colleague Bečić, that the government should have covered the whole issue of housing in Croatia through a different model by this specific change and by allowing the construction of apartments to be rented in Croatia. So there is the impression that through and through this model, and through the existing apartments that are under construction, in the POS system they are not sold to create another new fund anyway of the large number of unsold apartments in the Republic of Croatia. It would be interesting if Mr. Deputy told us how many unsold apartments are currently in the entire POS system, so not only in the POS system managed by the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation. I would also join those agencies owned by units of local self-government, so that we can add to that number, for example, Sopnica Jelkovec and other locations in Croatia whose apartments are empty and built through this or similar model of POS. I would also ask Mr. Deputy to introduce us to a very specific way that he holds that for the construction of rental apartments that will be financed by the state in a hundred percent amount, which, if rented by the tenants will pay 20 or 30 kuna, I still don't know the exact amount because I heard in public that the ministry is 20 kuna per metre square and 30 kuna per metre square. So, in this fact that this rent is competitive, we welcome it and below it is commercial that then the difference for the repayment of loans that will be provided for such a reduced amount of funds received from the rent, how it collapsing with the assessment that the implementation of the law will not require additional funds when, at this point, the state without a natural person enters the building of the apartment itself and the financing of its construction. That's why I've been in government since the first day and as a parliamentary representative, and I say that the POS model is not the happiest solution to building a housing fund in the Republic of Croatia. To live as POS shows that the role of the state building apartments is questionable with a number of basics because it violates healthy competition in the construction sector, which would ultimately result in a fall in housing prices. We believe that there is no need for the state to appear as an investor in the area of housing, since it competes with state budget funds for entrepreneurs whose activity is a source of tax revenue for this same state budget, in a way that builds apartments at lower prices than market prices, but which are not low prices. Unfortunately, prices in POS are somewhere in the Republic of Croatia and above market prices. But we also witness that often POS apartments are competitive and especially in coastal counties, as well as in the city of Zagreb are competitive in terms of market prices, but not in the quality of the works carried out. In practice, complaints from customers of these apartments have been frequent and show that the competitive price of POS, from POS apartments, often does not justify the final product that the buyer receives. At the end of the year, from 16 January 2015, Free Dalmatia published an example with 130 owners of POS apartments in the area... in Makarska, which came not even eight months after the move. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The householder's statement: "The rain through the four buildings pours like through the grate, sparked into the elevator that was turned off from the big rain, in the flats the walls of the knauf are so wet that they are moldy, the storm separated a large metal frame with a glass wall in the staircase, it broke down the front door from the north." etc. etc. So, this is one example perhaps the most drastic one, but I know that you too, Mr. Deputy Witness, have been built in Croatia how many times there have been objective complaints about the unquality of built dwellings in POS. And it's not negligible either, and I'm quite a witness, that many times you don't go into the purchase of POS's apartments, given the kind of ghettoization that happens through the construction of POS apartments and the inability of a natural person to choose a place where he really wants to live. However, we return to the information the government states in the light of the law when it says that during the full 12 years of implementation of the Law on Socially Encouraged Stanobuilding, 6319 dwellings with a value of around 3.7 billion were built to date and are currently in construction of 1559 apartments. So, if we look at the number of apartments built according to the POS model since 2002, it's an average of about 485 apartments a year, or if we take into account these new apartments that are built somewhere slightly less than 600 apartments per year built according to the POS model, which we don't think is a large number of apartments, nor do we hold that it could have helped Croatia's housing policy drastically. That is why we remind you that in the term of last government in 2011, the Law on subsidisation and the state guarantee of housing loans was passed. This law has won an extraordinary result within a very short time. We remind you that only in the first year of application, 1454 loans were subsidized from May to the end of 2011. Thus, in half a year of implementation of the law, the number of dwellings required by the POS model for an indicative period of 2.5 years was reached. Unfortunately, the government gave up the model and we believe that this model could have helped sell an unsold housing fund in the Republic of Croatia. I, too, would be interested in changing the POS Act that we had in 2013, when the POS plus model was introduced, very effectively announced that the state would buy first row from banks and allow through the POS system the sale of such apartments, I am interested in how much of this POS plus model has been realised and how much has been achieved? But we, in the HDZ Club, have something to say in this debate about the situation in the construction sector, because we believe that the major situation in the construction sector depends on two fundamental things. This was on the one hand a housing policy in the Republic of Croatia and, on the other hand, on investment or investment either by state, was private in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that over the past few years the construction sector has suffered more than all other economic branches in the Republic of Croatia and that in the sector where about 135 to 140 thousand employees were employed today, fewer than 90,000 were employed. That the construction sector has significantly more participated before the crisis in Croatia's overall GDP, about 20% more than it is today. That the number of solutions issued, which suggests how much housing in Croatia really cost, the number of approvals issued in 2011 was 9600, and the past only 6600, so 31% less. And when it comes to the issue of approval for the construction of apartments, 42.5% less has been issued. So this best confirms that over the past three years we have not taken appropriate measures in the section relating to housing and housing policy in Croatia. And the culprits are certainly a difficult economic situation in Croatia, but I would say certain government wanderings. And when it comes to the first announcement, and then giving up the property tax. So it certainly also contributed to the government on the one hand first reducing the subsidies of housing savings, then announcing its abolition if you remember it, so the government returned to its position that it was justified housing savings and loans through housing savings through housing savings. We believe that this project is very good and that this project should have been designed as other countries do, especially Central Europe, such as Austria, the Czech Republic, etc., etc. Therefore, through a comprehensive solution to the housing policy in Croatia would help the construction sector, it would help young people who do not have a solution to the housing issue, and we do not hold that through the POS project any changes to POS plus 2013 or by this change anything important will help resolve housing policy in the Republic of Croatia. So, here's what we'll end up in the HDZ Club, we'll be restrained as far as this law is concerned. In fact, we support the fact that this law will allow natural persons who signed the pre-contract for the purchase of the apartment because it will reduce their price but everything else for us at the HDZ Club cannot get support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100708	Thank you. We're moving on to replica, Tomislav Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100709	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, my dear colleague Bačić seems to be following from one of your thesis the answer to maybe this doubt that bothers us all, which is, you said the state is building apartments, you're just saying it, it's not good that the state builds apartments and in the other sentence you said it's still a state investor. So the state doesn't build apartments. Stan's building a construction sector. And just maybe one of the problems that has arisen in the past, and we're saying that construction, we know in fact that the construction sector is part of that congestion of our growth, the economic construction sector has come into trouble today because the construction sector has taken over and one part of the investment, it has become an investor. And it is precisely in the pursuit of these concepts that we may be facing today. And now let's go back to this part that you might not have wanted to say, or you simply skipped, and that's the question of the tenants, so those people who are going to live in such apartments. The first positive effect today can be agreed that there are many tenants living in poor conditions. Therefore, since the apartments are expensive and the rents are expensive in this way, competition will increase and the tenants will be in better living conditions. On the other hand, the registers of tenants, so when, in addition, better tax payments and all that will be better charged in a transparent record. And thirdly, mostly the people in the apartments saw it as a temporary solution. It seems to me that in this model what's good is that a man who's going to be in such an apartment that he's going to rent, he has the possibility of buying that apartment and buying it. So he will not treat it as a temporary solution but will be able to treat that apartment so that one day it will become his property. In that sense, I see the good intentions of this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100710	Thank you. Here's your answer, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100711	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sagar, this is the law of the state on the intervention market whether you want to admit it or not. This law, which comes from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, looks more like a social measure than a measure of housing policy, construction, etc. etc. The state can, if it wants, and in 2011, we decided otherwise that through government measures, not to compete on the market but to help primarily young families to enter more favourable conditions in the purchase of housing and the settlement of housing issues than unsold apartments on the market. In this way we do two basics to help young people buy an apartment with very generous state subsidies, and on the other hand, we reduce the number of unsold apartments, which makes us a special contribution to the possibility of a new construction cycle of any apartments for sale, any apartments for future rental. That's the fundamental difference between what I'm saying and what the government is saying or what you're saying. What do I think the government doesn't need to go into one huge procedure, you know how many people are engaged in building a POS apartment? The entire Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation, local self-government, bank engagement, customer engagement. In a model that was much simpler only one man could engage and solve everything in the bank and there was a service there that helped social financial measures to buy an apartment without this large engagement of one, for which the entire agency needed. That's one thing, and the other thing I support is the possibility of building apartments for rent. But maybe we could think differently. If the government was doing POS plus to enable private and physical persons to purchase built apartments and even owned by those investors you mentioned earlier, then we could think about solving their rent right through these apartments, through some other model POS plus. I want to tell you that we get rid of unsold apartments in Croatia and allow a new cycle if it comes to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100712	Thank you. The price of my colleague Bačić. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100713	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. From the assessment of the situation on the market and the problem of the dwellings and the given reasoning and in the introduction, we heard four data that 6319 apartments had been made so far, that 3 billion 107 million of which the state stake was 753 billion 107 million, and of which the state stake was 759 million and I calculated 24.4%, and that at this point in building 1559 apartments. At the end of last year, and there was a colleague named Bacic rightly given the fact that for apartments in construction and pre-contracts were made for about 40% of the apartments in the building. And that's practically all we are of projections, facts, numbers and visions and the desired result this change should bring to you. However, I must also say that this law is also one in a series of laws in which the state intervenes on the market. And here again a debate has appeared whether the state may or may not, may or may not intervene on the market in this case of dwellings. The State intervened in the capital market when the exchange rate is limited and the state must intervene in the laws of the market whenever market laws bring disorder and injustice or in the opposite market is declared a golden calf to which everyone worships, do not question whether it is right and those who so strongly advocate absolute freedom of the market remind me that Moses will have to come down from the mountain again because it will destroy the world. Do not be fooled by the fact that the market in itself brings justice. Is the applicant's intention a social measure? It's visible that it is. Could this social measure be achieved in a way that helps young families to reach the apartment on the private market? I have to admit, I don't know how this could be done except that the state gives young families loans to buy from private people expensive apartments. And before I move on to the content of the proposal, what happens in Croatia to have 15 thousand apartments for years unsold, that the price of them does not fall more significantly and that they are not placed on the market for rent? Okay, I can't sell, but they're not even in the lease function, what is it? Who is it, and the state hasn't interfered so far at least, who decides that these apartments don't go to market and that's worth it, who can stand having a building with 20 empty apartments for 10 years and not putting it into a rental function, on the lease market? The answer to that question will probably only be possible one day, hopefully, to give the investigative bodies of this country and to see whose capital it was. I quote a description of the situation "Citizens have needs for apartments, but they are currently creditworthy". On my question before Mr. Uhlir said that about the population in Croatia is creditworthy. Unfortunately, they are not currently credit-insolvent, they are permanently credit-insolvent, and you have made them permanently credit-incapacitated, unfortunately when you changed the Labour Act, when you practically abolished the contract indefinitely and allowed exclusively contract-to-determination, when you accepted such a forced and imposed flexible labour market, when you introduced the Institute of Labour without the establishment of a working relationship, when the laws of the supervisory mechanism specifically inspection under paid pay introduced that it was enough to pay a minimum wage, not full pay, which is unfortunately very little who knows. When the inspector controls the payout, he watches if the minimum wage is paid, the law is satisfied. And you see, for years, the labour market has been flexible, and we've now found that citizens are credited, you said right now, and I'm telling you life-long credit incapacitated. They take loans other than an apartment or a loan for an apartment to buy children books for school and plant techniques and other permanent benefits because they do not have cash. And now as one consequence of this brutal capitalism that worships the golden calf of the market, the state has to intervene because you are afraid that too many have come into the situation that it is without an apartment, and that especially too many young families have no prospect of coming into the next ten years in a chance to solve their housing issue in any way. And this bill is the resolution of the consequences of the system that you not only supported but also obediently obeyed all the orders of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank and the Troika and Europe Directives because we have now adapted to this, I would say to a wild capitalism from which we now do not know how to solve citizens' problems. So I'm correcting that part of the text currently credit-incapacitated, unfortunately, permanently credit-incapacitated. Second function, wish or goal to achieve labour mobility. It's also a good goal, I support it. But since you're already writing Mr. Uhlir that you want to gain the working mobility of the citizens of this country, let your associates help you write down the conditions for working mobility. It is a job, it is an apartment and it is worth nothing all together if the state does not follow the third factor, and these are kindergartens because families with children will not migrate if there is no room in kindergartens, and only 40% of children can be enrolled in kindergartens, and Croatia has capacities. And at the end of school, it's available and basic, secondary vocational education in all parts of the country, and you know very well that... So, unfortunately, this housing policy will not increase labour mobility. The average salary of 740 euros, the price of a square apartment 1.115 if I remember correctly, monthly payments of such loans 300 to 350 euros. On average, one family member is employed with 740 euros in salary, the apartment is therefore credited to 300, 350 and we say we will now make them creditworthy. Very hard. The third explanation of the state and objectives, reads "also in the cities with difficulties with retention" beware of this "or the acquisition of expert personnel". Well, an expert when it's not a potato to be supplied, it's not human or potato or carrot to get a professional frame. I was quoting a sentence from the state's description. The local self-government, which is devastated in financial terms, will be difficult to engage in such measures and mechanisms to acquire a professional fit, not to obtain it, in the Jethro, I guess, because it is financially exhausted. What is lacking in all of this to see the quality of the mechanism for achieving the objectives that have been declared, how many apartments the state intends to build in the next three years, how many rental apartments, as much as for sale, territorial distribution of these apartments on the Croatian map at least by county, maximum price, and especially the conditions. Will the state, Mr. Uhlir, will the state, when they build these apartments, rent a worker who is employed for a certain period of time for three months, and his wife is unemployed and has two children? Will this apartment be able to be rented by a worker who brings in confirmation that he has a minimum salary of 2.800 kuna? Whether the right to this apartment will be given to the one who works in a state or private company without a proper working relationship, they are so-called. The skinny volunteers, if you remember. We need to know that when we decide this law, not a word of it. What about that population category? Annihilation, introduction of VAT into building land. I don't know why you first introduced VAT and then you take measures to accelerate its effects. And I ask the following, what about those who solve their housing issues... Is it an individual housing building? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How are we going to cancel the introduction of VAT on construction land? Remember back in the '90s and selling social housing? Hundreds of thousands of apartments were then sold. What do you think that money was immediately or three or four years later invested in the construction of a state-owned rental apartment fund? And in the end, maybe you should stay on this subject longer. If the state does not have a mechanism to value the price of dwellings on the market, if the last state-owned banks also give up, the minimum of decency is that there are enough apartments for rent at prices that will be able to be paid in accordance with the purchasing power of the population. And I think that's what we need to talk about, start with that. And I think the state should definitely give up building apartments for sale. All the resources that Croatia has to focus on building as many rental apartments as possible because it is obviously the only solution for poor and young people in Croatia to have a springboard for a few years. And I'll finish the next one. I expected that this opportunity of the state, the government, would be used by the government to finally solve the problem of protected tenants once and for all. By solving one injustice 20 and a few years ago, the state did another injustice. We've taken back some of the nationalized property that we've left the tenants in, protected the tenants. What both of you are, but watch out for each other all these years, from individual cases that I've had a chance to see, it's terrible. Not only do the owners suffer, but those in those apartments are neither guilty nor obliged, such harassments, chicanings, such inconveniences that sometimes they border on common sense. Isn't this the last time that this model of building state flats gives replacement apartments to these people? Either, or the official decision has been made, Mr. Deputy Minister, that this government too will decide or decide to solve the problem of protected tenants with only one method, biologically. You're waiting for the protected tenants to die, die, and that problem to be solved on its own. This biological method has so far been used by all governments in the Republic of Croatia since May 1990, unfortunately, and you do the same. By biological method, you solve the problem of the category of citizens who became victims of the law 20 years ago, 40, 60, anytime.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100714	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lesar, I agree that the state should intervene on the market because this state interventionism has often intervened in the countries of neoliberal capitalism without saying that both Germany and the United States have intervened countless times when the red light is on the market. I believe that the red light is lit in the Croatian part of the residential building, especially in the fact that there is a large number and there is a large fund of unsold apartments. I'm not sure there's really 15 grand, it's one piece of information that's going public, I think it's less and better that it's less. But as long as there's such a large number of unsold apartments, I'm sure the state has an excuse for intervention. One of these interventions was the Law on subsidisation and state guarantee of housing loans, which limited the level of interest to young families of the state by means of a social measure of subsidies from the state budget and in agreement with banks and helped those who were able to buy the apartment. That's one model. Another model would be that citizens who don't have a credit rating and you talked about buying an apartment to make it possible from that same fund, for that there is a basis in POS plus which only when we changed this law a year and a half ago to allow the rental of an apartment to happen again using a number of social measures. And there I agree in part and those who have low wages or are employed at... Time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the third thing that is, that the state could intervene in that market of unsold apartments is to enable the resolution of the status of protected tenants and their owners. These are therefore measures that the state can intervene for the benefit of its own citizens and, by the way, address the issue of this large unsold number, i.e. a large number of unsold apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100716	Thank you. My colleague Lesar's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100717	Comrade Bacic, some say that these unsold apartments have 12, some 15 thousand, we go to a minimum of 12 thousand. You as a former minister may know better, but I really can't figure out the motives, the causes in fact, but these aren't those apartments sold for a year, it's been going on for 5, 6, 7 years. What is it that they don't offer on the rental market? I agree with you that the state must have... and that's what I was talking about, the social role. POS+ and state aid models you mentioned are credit-worthy and that may have been 7-8 years ago worth something else, but counterpart Bacic no longer has credit-worthy workers in this country. They're gone. There are civil servants, they're the only ones who have a steady job. In the private sector, it is no longer available, wages have fallen and fallen further. Like the geese in the fog, everyone has thrown into brutal capitalism and now these rules shock us, slap us, and now we have a situation that we have to intervene. If in this same capitalism they went to a model that the state has two categories of state housing, social housing for those who go according to social criteria and social services and rent especially for young people, let's finally apply it and design it, spend that model until the end but not in 10 years 6000 apartments. And when I ask how many people, how many couples, we have families today running for the rent market, we can't get the information, we don't know what it is. There are, it says there are, as far as we don't know. And that's why I don't think this proposal is complete.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100718	Thank you. Nevenka Becic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100719	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lesar, I agree with you when you said that it was obvious that not only this government but all governments are waiting for the biological method to solve the problem between the owners of the apartments and protected tenants, but so far it could have been so but now we have a ruling of the European Court of Human Rights on the basis of which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible and must apply it and in that sense I think it is the deadline for this ruling to be implemented in the legislative system of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, you have pointed out that it has been built under this law so far 6319 dwellings, which is an investment of €3 billion 107 million, for which the Republic of Croatia has invested around 759 million through incentive funds. When we share these 759 million kunas with 6319 built apartments, we get that the Government of the Republic of Croatia hired 120 thousand and 113 kuna per apartment. When we multiply this amount of 120 000 and 113 kuna from 2,000 private apartments where protected tenants live, we get a figure of 31 million and 610 thousand euros that would employ the Republic of Croatia under the same system to build adequate replacement apartments protected by the tenants. And in damages to the European Court's rulings, they will spend 2,000 such apartments of 60m euros for compensation only, without interest and without compensation for mental pain. So twice as much as she would invest by building replacement apartments for protected tenants. And in that sense, I think it is high time to give up the biological methods that will solve this problem, and that, as responsible representatives of the Republic of Croatia, they are accountable to their people and to the International Community, are responsible and set up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100720	Time. Thank you. My colleague Lesar, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100721	Yes, colleague Becic, I may have used the hard word, the biological method of solving the problem, but I don't know what else to call it. Maybe she's the only one who's fit. It is regrettable that the society that has known this problem for 20 years is using and accessing the way to end someone's life solves the problem. You mentioned the European Court's verdict and you said Croatia must now respect it. You really believe that anything, or what state we are, will be respected and done, is what any country that has to wait for the European Court to establish that the state towards its citizen, citizen, citizen, is exactly what one does by law wrong. A law wronged. And that judgment in itself only contains one flaw, it is unknown when it must be carried out. You don't know when. It was worth it before we entered the European Union, and after we entered, no one asks us any more regrets.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100722	Thank you. On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100723	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What about the addition of the Law on Encouraged Housebuilding? Normally, the political options to this problem have a double view which is completely normal and completely normal. What we in HNS would say is that from the beginning we have advocated this way to help a special category in our society to acquire a new apartment, but the very approaches to solving this problem could be long discussed. Therefore, this is certainly the most favourable way to resolve housing issues and housing. What is important is that, at the time or as the ministry likes to say, it reacts without delay, but primarily by introducing a value added tax on transport with building land from 1 January 2015. This time, to mitigate these adverse circumstances, the ministry has proposed additions, changes to fostered housing and, in essence, after the introduction of value added tax, encouraged apartments and such housing will remain the most favourable. What's important is to say that since 2001 this is essentially seven amendments to the law. It means that the law has been experiencing certain changes, and the change of government that came has kept that model. It means he's functional and he's good, because that model didn't disappear. What I would like to conclude and say as a basis for why we are going to supplement this law that the needs among citizens still exist for such apartments today. What is also good is that the ministry and the legislator of this law realized that it is not enough to have just a law for permanent care and permanent real estate, so that it would certainly be good to follow trends in European countries, that the state has one part of the rental apartments through encouraged housing. We also welcome that, and we think it's a good thing. Many colleagues in their debate said that these apartments are disrupting the market. I do not see the extent to which they are disrupting the market, because the Real Estate Agency is a non-profit institution of the Ministry of Construction who chooses the most favourable performers, builders, the most favourable craftsmen and here I do not see where the state and the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning affect the market. The impact of this on the market, we believe, is good, means that good governance of the Real Estate Agency has achieved competitive prices and that these prices are competitive on the market. What I would say is that so far, the state has built over 6,000 apartments. I am pleased that the units of local self-government that I come from, the city of Đakovo, were part of the encouraged housing, that the price of a square meter of encouraging housing in the city of Djakovo was 732 euros. Out of that 732 euros, 138 wastes on a local self-government unit. What the price meant was 600 euros, that's very favourable. At that time, prices on the market in Đakov, what private entrepreneurs were doing was over 1200, 1300 euros. Normally, it was competitive, and we believe that as a unit of local self-government, our goal is to ensure that young people get favourable conditions when they acquire the first real estate. What makes you happy is that there are clear criteria in having apartments to know exactly how many family members can compete on which apartment and that is good. What we think is certainly good in the proposal for a new law is that units of local self-government can appear here, that individual missing personnel can be dealt with this way. Also, a part of the apartment if it stays unsold can go to other customers, which we also think is very good. This model continues to operate from approximately 1559 apartments built in Osijek, Lovran, Zagreb, Klara, Zagreb, Zapruđe, Split, Kila, 3. Kila, four, Zadar, Rijeka, Dubrovnik. What's not good about this, when it comes to encouraging housing, it's the most developed centers and that those smaller cities have no interest, but there should be an interest in the state to build and stimulate encouraged housing. The proposed changes and additions allow interested citizens to address the housing issue with clear criteria for the assignment of apartments. What with encouraged housing is being dealt with in a better way, which is kind of in the tradition of people living in these areas that everyone has their own real estate. Normally, that part of the property changes conditionally with both the crisis and the recession, and that young people will prefer to enter the lease. But what's certainly good is that this lease can go to permanent ransom. What's good is, unlike the private apartments that are rented here, there's legal arrangement and security for the tenants. Therefore, there is no question here that the whim of the bosses or anyone else will experience any inconvenience. What's good is he can always buy that apartment. In the world in Europe there are models of renting apartments. What is also good that this law, proposed by the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, is that part of the technical disadvantages under the proposal of the State Audit in Article 7 on governance, I think it should be arranged and it is good that it is proposed with this law. Also, Article 15 regulates in the best way what we should and everyone should support, to mitigate the 4% impact on, on VAT on building land, to reduce interest to 1% and 3%, which will allow encouraged housing to continue to be competitive and will continue to be attractive for young people to reach their first real estate. What we as the Croatian People's Party will support this proposal, and what colleagues discussed in their debates is a question of social housing that is a completely different segment where they need units of local self-government, regional self-government, the Ministry of Social and Care to see what models they are and what number they are. Here encouraged housing and bringing with the sociale is not a topic for this law because it needs to be dealt with completely in another way, a question of sociale and a question of need. Here, too, the units of local self-government under this law are equal for their participation in financing and that part gets paid back through the repayment of loans. What many colleagues have been saying about the state's participation is what the state borrowed at one point, encouraged housing, and those who buy apartments will return it over the years so that the state has not hired a large sum of money. The Croatian People's Party and our club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100724	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Maria Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100725	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mandic, of course, I agree with a lot of what you said, but I would just like to supplement you, perhaps it is not a question and debate for now, perhaps for another ministry, or the Ministry of Finance. In fact, you said that the local self-government unit is responsible for building apartments, that it should and can allocate certain funds, of course, assuming it has them for the cost of citizens. But through all this, I have one question, where are the funds from buying apartments in the '90s foreign exchanges further that the state was obliged naturally to return some of these funds to local communities for strict purpose or for building housing and solving housing problems? As far as I'm aware of, perhaps one of the ministers would have been better at saying that, if only Split had taken advantage of the return of those funds and that one object that was located seems to me at the Constitutional Court of the City of Rijeka, I'm not sure, but I suppose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100726	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100727	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague. So I'd say more here that the local self-government unit is interested in taking care of some of the quality young people in this way. What a unit of local self-government can give participation in the provision of land, the provision of municipal infrastructure, roads, gas, telephone, electricity, and this all affects the price of the apartment and that way through the good unit of local self-government enters the joint project. Normally, the local self-government unit and the housing-encouraged housing can share according to its criteria to which the Real Estate Transport Agency has final consent. But if the units of local self-government I don't know about an orthodontist isn't in that city but he won't come unless he has his own apartment. That way, the unit of local self-government puts an orthodontist, etc. And that part. About the apartments that were sold in the '90s. Years and '91. years under favourable conditions probably one part of the larger money went into defense, but what matters most is that all these apartments had a title of ownership. If it weren't for state housing, it was from certain companies I don't know, any, but the state helped those who bought it, and it came to the funds it used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100728	Thank you. Branko Hrg, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100729	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mandic, you have often mentioned local self-government and you have said that social housing is quite different from what this law proposes, amendments to the law, and that is correct. But what is the fact that the state should actually worry about this particular sector and that the business of housing should be left to private entrepreneurs. My city took part in the encouraging apartment building. The fact is that the apartments we built under this model were still there in 2002, 2003, it doesn't matter that they were ultimately more expensive than the apartments built across the street by a private entrepreneur who was better built without subsidies. And then I ask myself a real question whether these amendments to the law and this total law really go in the right direction and whether we should make some sharper cut and draw that line a little thicker pen, figure out how much it's worth, what are the effects and see if we go any further in this direction at all. And local self-government and housing for social needs, you know, last year, it seems to me to me that last year, the state took apartments to local self-government along with protected tenants who are now likely to sell and those people might eventually depose. And they will return to local self-government. So we have a really different set of scales until we know the State Property Management Agency is selling state-owned premises on the other hand moving to private premises, renting etc. I mean, all kinds of crap happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100730	Thank you. My colleague Mandic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100731	Thank you very much, colleague Hrg. So I think this law encourages housing if it is also burdened with a social that is certainly worth solving, I think it would get an unconsistant law because in terms of participation, on matters and resources, the interests of the state, regional administration and local self-government. The interest of local self-government units to ensure that we fully agree. As far as these private entrepreneurs are concerned, as far as I know, there have been many private individuals who have not been even builders, who were not even entrepreneurs in another business, who felt the ideal opportunity to build apartments and sell. That time, capital was cheaper, recession, crisis didn't affect Croatia either, didn't affect Europe, only around 2007, something began to whisper that the situation in America could be unstable. Therefore, part of the dumped prices were made by these entrepreneurs. I believe that if the agency could sell these apartments in the City of Đakov for 732 euros where it didn't lose, it was part of the funds 50% that she secured through the state budget and part of it went through commercial banks and the difference was huge. Why do we have a large number of unsold apartments? And that's 12 grand, that's huge. And still the banks that carry those apartments don't want to lower the price. I know that the agency was negotiating with the banks to buy these apartments and to go through the incentive of housing but these were conditions that were inconclusive of the price of squares. Therefore, time will do its part and a colleague, Lesar, has said the capital of which we will see in these apartments, but it is not sustainable like this, this is the price of apartments held by banks today in these unsold ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100732	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100733	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on socially encouraged housing. Here I am, as my colleague Mandic, will speak affirmatively of this law. Because this law was passed during the Government of Ivica Racan in 2001 and I can say that in principle, the tender for technical documentation received a number of quality and representative architectural solutions and later realised, which were positively presented by our architectural and construction profession in the world. It also raised the quality of housing and housing throughout the country. Many colleagues, Bačić warned that the quality of works on special buildings is often not good but I believe, I am convinced that this is not the case of POS, but this is also the case of the entire housing even of private apartment builders and should not generalise it and tie it directly to POS. Also, many of what I have stated means that we have received a number of architectural solutions that have received prizes and Europeans, and national and here I believe that a colleague of Hrg will mention and I think that in Križevci the POS building has also won the award at the national... So here's what we're going to do with two affirmative discussions at the end. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And simply the point of POS itself is also the participation of units of local self-government, giving criteria, building cheaper apartments, co-financing of the state, and I'm honestly a little surprised that not many of the clubs supported this intention. There have also been good suggestions, but I believe that over time, of course, we will include all the good that you have suggested. Also by implementing the Law on socially encouraged housing since 2001, 6319 has been built into 76 units of local self-government, the total investment value of 3 billion 107 million kuna, for which the Republic of Croatia has invested more than 759 million kuna. So we also heard that there are currently 1559 apartments in 7 cities and municipalities. If we were to speak and compare this with the impact of the price of apartments on the market that we had and in the apartment, knowing that it was built, building five hundred apartments a year or less, I am convinced that these, that the encouraging housing certainly did not bring down the price of the apartment market for one single reason because, let's say, these apartments were just sold under 1000 euros per square, and we know that by the end of 2007, the price of apartments was more than 2,500 euros in Zagreb and the coast. It's only wrong for me that we from underdeveloped parts of the state, so from the continent we probably won't, our units of local self-government won't go in if the real cost of building an apartment is about eight hundred euros on our markets is cheaper so that our citizens will, of course, go shopping for apartments that they can get and at a lower price, though they are old, they will have to invest in them over time, but I hope that with time, our continent will develop. To date, this law has been amended and complemented several times, in particular 7 and in this current amendment, the next time will be resolved will be proposed to address the housing issue to interested citizens who meet the prescribed conditions by renting apartments under conditions that are more favourable than on the market. In fact, the current economic situation in recent years has led to a growing number of interested citizens who can reach an appropriate solution to the housing issue by buying an apartment. Secondly, it is proposed to reduce interest rates which cancel the impact of value added tax on building land. After a new one, interest rates for the start of payments were reduced from 2% to 1% and interest on credit funds in the Republic of Croatia were reduced from 5% to 3%. Both the latest amendments and the additions remove the irregularities observed in the current application of the law and clarify the rights and obligations of APN and non-profit legal persons established by local self-government units, which relate to keeping records of sales apartments and apartments paid for in respect of the collection and payment of funds and in the commitments made. The adoption of the proposed law will achieve the following: the possibility of building apartments for social rentals with the possibility of buying-ins, which would bridge the situation in the real estate market where a group of citizens has a need for housing, but are currently not creditworthy to buy the same ones, improving the working mobility of the population, given that citizens who use apartments in it are not for the same easier changes in the place of work, as well as in cities that have difficulties with keeping or obtaining professional staff can provide better conditions of employment, expanding the purpose of building apartments and thus increasing the need for construction and crafts work, adapting to new provisions of value added tax in part of land tax in a way that activates the impact of the same through the reduction of interest rates on loans. Finally, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget for the implementation of the proposed law. The SDP advocates' club will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement Building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100734	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100735	So here is my colleague Babić you have actually well located one problem big in this law, i.e. in the intensity of the law or in the desire that this law will achieve when you say that the prices of apartments in rural areas in smaller towns are much cheaper and that in principle this model there can hardly pass with regard to the price of construction. And that's why I'm talking here today that it's necessary to turn around in housing policy and that you definitely have to look at what this law has brought so far since 2001, how profitable it was, what its effects are, how much those who bought the apartments are, and today they have trouble paying off their loans. I remember this law of adoption, I think at first it was called social or socially stimulating housing, it was so-called. Chacic's apartments, and then he changed later and went on, and we just keep changing it, a little bit of modifying it by wanting to change things daily, and things are much harder and much wider to look at. So today, the problem of labour mobility that many people here today have been talking about is very difficult for young people to do, and it says in the light of this law to afford loans both for work and for tomorrow to take them somewhere else. And we come into a situation where we really need to start thinking about social promotional housing in a completely different way, in a way to encourage double, to encourage the purchase of houses in rural areas for the part of the social needs that yawns empty and which can be bought very cheaply, where help is given to those who have these houses, and also to those who should live in them. And in this part of the encouraging building of apartments should primarily think about private entrepreneurship. And the state definitely shouldn't be an entrepreneur in this case, not because it's already spoken here, because it's a unfair competitor to those who invest their money because it gives the same money to compete with them later. I'm not in favour of those who may have mixed up and now have problems, but I'm talking about a future period of time, and I'm talking about how this law needs to be changed. Therefore, it is necessary to subsidize and encourage and make these changes in the law to make private entrepreneurs who will build apartments, primarily for renting, and should be double stimulated in that part to encourage and stimulate them when they go into the building of such apartments and in the second part when it comes to subsidising rents especially for young couples because our marriages of young people break up after a few years, often because they have raised credit, bought an apartment, burned in difficulty, our marriage is falling apart. This topic has a slightly wider scope and needs to be viewed in several ways, not just in a way that will build socially stimulating apartments with local self - government. I'm not sure I'm still saying that I'm not sure, and I need you to convince me, Mr. Deputy Minister, that this project has worked in the last 14 years. If 6 thousand and some apartments are built in 14 years, if a huge taxpayer's money is invested in it, I'm not sure it's a program and a project that has succeeded and should continue that direction. If these changes are going to make you go on a variant to rent these apartments and be subsidized in some way by this rent, reduced rent, not socially, but for those who can actually pay rent to do it all over Croatia, to increase labour mobility, that people can literally live in one city, get a job in another city, pack things up and move to the same apartment in another city, then you would make one move, one step that would certainly help young people. Today, it is rare that a young man in Croatia who does not have an inheritance property is a residential one. Well, Croatia is a country where everyone has houses, apartments, inherits it. Very rare are those who have nothing. But in this time in which they now live in this crisis, they have a problem. They're in debt, unnecessarily, they're raising loans, they're putting a rock around their necks, and they're having a problem later. Later they scrutinize, inherit one of their old men's houses, and then they can't sell it anymore. So we have to turn that housing policy in a completely different direction, turn it towards those models that are long known outside. You can also make sure that one part of it is for buying these apartments, but we have to define these things a little bit more detail. It's not clear from this law how and in what way it's going to be, how it's going to be a simulation, how these apartments are going to be rented, whether they're going to be something cheaper, for which categories they're going to be rented as such. And whether they're gonna get paid a month's payout for a lease later or when they decide to buy that apartment, they're gonna pay the full price of the apartment that she's worth at that time. And I repeat, two types of housing policy, social housing policy, saving lives in rural areas, reviving these empty houses. In smaller towns, also a mass of empty houses, a mass of empty apartments. I don't want to tell you, there are state flats staring empty, where pigeons lie to report it to the communal directors, they can't go in there because it's state property. There's that in every city. No order has been entered. I'm not saying this right now that it's somebody's fault at this point, I'm just saying that there's too much potential, too much space that isn't used and that really doesn't need to spend government money, taxpayer money for something that may not be necessary at this point. Let's take a look at the real state of things. Let's put into function what we have now. Let's go fix it and get it done. Much less will cost money and people will be in their homes faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100736	Thank you. We've got one replica of Miss twilight. Comrade Becic, you're late with the replica, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100737	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with your debate. You've just pointed to problems in all this. And regardless of the good intentions, I would do it again and I think the colleagues in the debate said the same thing, and I know from experience. The young man finishes college in Zagreb and Zagreb and can't get a job, the professor is by profession and goes to one place away 220 km where he should start working but there is no apartment there. The apartment to rent, the three costs 2,000 kuna and the salary is 5600 with travel expenses. In Zagreb to buy apartment by POS a year ago and something was 15% participation, a small apartment, means one of 50 and some squares, the participation was 15 thousand euros. So I'm wondering, and they were wondering at the bank where the young man got 15 thousand euros for participation, and then they still get that loan at all, it takes one, two, three thousand euros to make it happen. What's most tragic in society, and you've said it well, is that the younger they get married more rarely. Why? Well, I can't, they don't have that start, and then there's us parents or grandparents trying in some way to give them that kind of space to live in. And besides, when you provide something and you're also a judge to that child of yours and you're helping in some way repay that loan of course because there's no way of participating in one day being alone, that you should pay it, I wonder what kind of salary it must be to pay the monthly loan war to ensure I don't know about any future child that God will give you. It's all big problems. [[Thank you. Time's up, fellow twilight.]] And we could.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100738	Comrade Hrg's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100739	Thank you very much. Well, that's the problem, so socially stimulating housing is meant for young people, but then we have to adapt to the time in which we live, and it's in that initial model when it's run in some other times maybe had some kind of effect. At this point, there's no effect anymore, so that's what the data itself is saying. And it needs to be adapted to that time. It's really very dangerous to borrow an apartment today because you're not sure of anything. You don't know if you're coming to work tomorrow, you don't even know if you're going to have anywhere to go to work and you don't know where you're going to live tomorrow. Today, young people simply cannot commit to one place in Croatia alone. And one more thing is very important. Because they bond, because this case you were saying, if someone went somewhere and needed to get a job somewhere else and didn't have an apartment bought, no credit, then it's still good. But if he accidentally took the loan, bought the apartment, he can't go anywhere, he's trapped in that space and he's failing. It becomes a social case tomorrow, an apartment is taken by a bank or someone else. So the goal we have to achieve is something completely different from what goes on in that direction that went wrong. We've been on one road, that road has run out, it's no longer going in the right direction, it needs to make some turns and it needs to be turned in one direction and another. And secondly, is Croatia's goal interest in the settlement of four cities in Croatia to encourage it or is Croatia's goal interest to have Croatia inhabited as a whole? So we must consider whether we will encourage something in the city of Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek as the largest cities or whether we will encourage it not to know in Daruvar, Vrbovac, Križevci, Prelog or not. So there are things that need to be defined a little bit stronger. And this amendment of the law is cosmetic at the very least, but it needs to be elaborated in more detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100740	Thank you. And final on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Deputy Minister Željko Uhlir. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100741	I thank you, thanks to all the representatives of the clubs, to all the individual representatives who have constructively contributed to this debate on our bill. I'd point out a few things, maybe if there wasn't something left in the air that wasn't standing, which is, among other things, often talked about social housing, social housing. Since the first day, this law has been called, it has been called the Official Law on Socially Encouraged Apartmentry and has never intended to use the name of social society, nor in any part of it, the provision had no social character. So it was said in the first row when it comes to buying apartments then it's no longer a social character, when someone buys an apartment he no longer belongs to the social category. What is now done is simply reacting to the market situation and correcting the law, opening up new opportunities, from this buyout we are renting because we are monitoring the situation on the market and what is happening with housing. Furthermore, the amendments to these interest rates proposed in this law said that customers would not benefit. They will, because interest rates affect between 6 and 9% and VAT on land is ok 4%. So depending on the share of land in a building there's going to be a difference between our apartment buyers, now those new ones that make a pre-contract and contract, they're going to feel that difference as something more favourable in the long-term loan payment. Not at the moment, but in the long-term payment of the loan. Furthermore, there was a lot of talk about protected tenants, about the problems of protected tenants. This law also had one possibility in its original edition from the first moment, that local self-government units could buy apartments by this model and build apartments by this model and use them to address protected tenants' issues. It is obvious that the units of local self-government were not used in this model but were left to all the state so that this law continues to retain those provisions allowing units of local self-government to participate in socially encouraged housing and that these dwellings are intended to protect the tenants. However, the theme of protected tenants is just in the Rent Act and there was a problem in '98. the year when the constitutional provision abolished one provision of that law since '98. the year in that law is not the problem solved, and our ministry has made efforts and efforts to make those proposals for a solution through amendments to the law on rent and have been in public debate and we are doing an analysis, so we will most likely do so in due course. As for the different options, different views on housing policies, this has always been and will be and today different attitudes have been heard here, from not having to be such a law at all, that there is no need for the state to interfere or to deal with the building of dwellings, that in some other way issues should be addressed to help our citizens, but in their case, the intervention of the state is sought. So is it directly from the budget as was the variant of the Loan Subsidisation Act when, over 4 years, 50% directly from the budget, the repayment of the loan was irrevocably subsidized. The only question then arises is what is going on now for the four years that have just passed, so now comes that blow on our citizens and the next 26 years will pay off the full war, so it doesn't mean that the law has solved it exactly to the end, except that the direct payment from the budget followed. So in any case, it is obvious from this debate of any party today, whether such legal solutions can not be reached by those others who advocate that, of course, they can, as is the view of the government. One thing is certain, without intervention, the state cannot regulate the issue of housing for certain groups of people who are not creditworthy and who cannot buy apartments on the market. It is certainly necessary to distinguish social cases which are dealt with by special models from those non-marketable groups and yet are not even social cases. It is precisely this law that needs to be resolved by the inter-group, meaning between the social cases to which the country needs to be fully subsidized, to those who are threatened by social conditions, and to be supported in some way by the status in which they are and to enable them to resolve the housing issue more normally. I'd like to thank you again for the constructive debates and thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100742	Thank you very much. At the last minute, comrade twilight. We're moving on to replicas. Here you go, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100743	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, I'm not sure you're right about the name. That law initially had that social supplement, and you check it out but it doesn't matter at this point. If I understood you correctly, if I didn't correct me, you mentioned something about these apartments with protected tenants that at one point the state transferred to the local self-government that had taken care of it. Some of the collected rents were paid into the state budget and often, of course, helped those living there. People couldn't buy it, they didn't take advantage of those benefits. After that, the State shall, overnight, make a unilateral decision, and transfer all the apartments back to state property. I don't know how smart that was, I don't know how correct it was if that's what you meant. I don't think you've made a good move as a state and that you've actually gone the wrong way. As for the continuation of some policy or other policy, it is clear that the state must lead housing policy especially to young people, it is clear that it must be encouraged. But, my God, give us some ideas. Well, you've given one idea here about this amendment to the law that apartments built as socio-encouraged housing will be able to rent. So is that politics, some new policy, or is that a continuation of something that lasts 14 years? In these 14 years, things have changed very, very much in the world, in Europe and especially in the Croatian state. So you didn't bother to give signs of some new housing policy and separated those two directions and social and this encouraging one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100744	Thank you. Answer me, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100745	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, every intervention of the state is primarily dependent on the state budget. So, of course it could be intervened, that it could be even more, that it could be built much more, that it would share apartments, but it would also require funds. And where Europe lies with its models, which are among other things much stronger based on local administration. If we talk about the city of Vienna and the big cities around us, they have a large stake in social housing. We can't handle it that way. What we have at our disposal is what we use. And this means only the result of monitoring and adjusting the situation of the market unlike the previous models that were also trying to do something, but they had one-year duration, direct subsidies from the budget were paid. It's a means of return. So it's all about other methodologies and this is what can be provided at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100746	Thank you. Nevenka Becic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100747	Thank you very much. In your closing statement, you stated that the law, or amendments to the Law on the rental of dwellings in work and that it will be resolved in due time. What the interested Croatian public is very interested in is whether, in accordance with the reply given by Ms. Mrak-Taritash in this assembly, the law will be in the parliamentary procedure as far as April, so whether or not it will be in the procedure by then. And at what stage is the development of an action plan which Croatia must naturally make on the basis of the European Court of Human Rights order and which plan must be delivered to the Council of Ministers of the European Union as Slovenia has done for its savings. And of course I asked you a question in my debate whether the government is considering the possibility that under this law we are discussing today will introduce a rent that will amount to 2 kunas and 70 limes per metre for future renters of apartments built under the Socially Encouraged Apartment Act, because the most difficult social categories of our population will enter, so I believe that if the owners of private apartments receive two kunas and 70 limes per meter per square meter for rent, forced rental of their apartments why the Republic of Croatia would not have social sensitivity and our socially endangered categories that cannot buy an apartment but also have to enter the rent at the price of two kunas and 70 lips. I think that would be ethical and necessary at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100748	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100749	I thank you for asking the question and for reminding me that you asked a question in your discussion, or presentation. You know that the ministry has made a proposal to amend the Rent Act and that he was in a public debate. So there are several solutions offered, and it's exactly the way to see who, that different groups of citizens can be found in different groups. And from these solutions and on the trail of these solutions will continue. We've been doing further analysis now. In the meantime, we also have this European Court of Human Rights verdict, and we need to take it all into account, and I think we will proceed as the minister has said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100750	Thank you. There'll be a chance I believe you'll get an answer. Next replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100751	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. We have already established, during and in the debate, that we have a different approach. So we both agree that the state is good, to intervene on the housing market when the red light is turned on, and the red light is lit in the fact that there are 10 or 12 or 15000 apartments in Croatia, however, there is a huge number of unsold apartments. By forcing a model that contributes to additional building of apartments, the fact that there are so many unsold by us does not solve and does not help the construction sector. It can be better dealt with by other measures that I talked about on behalf of the club and individually, which is that through the Subsidisation Act we enter into a simpler way of helping social measures from the state budget for young Croatian families to buy these apartments. Therefore, you know that this law was a good result and you could continue with it. Another measure was that through the possibility of buying out these same apartments that the state could later rent. And the third model is what counterpart Becic is talking about, which is that these same apartments can solve the problem of protected tenants. And when these measures are implemented I am sure that we will be able to enter a new cycle of building apartments in Croatia and thus help Croatian construction to get out of this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100752	Thank you. Here's your answer, Deputy Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100753	I would like to thank the parliamentary representative for the repeated reminder of the variety of models. And on our board, we talked about different models. It's obvious that this government has defined itself as another model than it was before, but I remind you that this model that you've advocated, that is, the legislator you've been working on, was only worth a year. It's not clear for what reason it's only been worth a year. And it was spent, according to my knowledge, about 178 million kuna directly from the budget. It could have been 500 million spent, maybe a billion but not right now. So we obviously estimate that such a model is not sustainable. You yourself were aware of when you gave him limited time in just a year because that way you encourage and sell those apartments that are bad investments, which were built in bad places, which no one would ever sell maybe without those who built them bearing any responsibility. POS itself has several models. So we have a building apartment sale, we have a POS plus looking for something like that. So anyone from the market can come, sell their apartment but at most for 1400 euros, the limit. So he's got to feel a little bit, a little bit has to lower his price. If such people want to come forward, if they want to sell their apartments and suffer a little bit of their worse investment, they are welcome in POS plus. And now the third model is the lease. So, the whole palette is made of it if someone is creditworthy and wants to participate in the purchase of the apartment then goes to POS, and if they want to buy any apartment on the market but up to 1400 euros can be in POS plus and finally rent. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100754	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Uhlir, perhaps this is some good intention for those who have already entered into this interest reduction and what you have said, but what with those young people who did not have, they did not have a share, simply because no one could give them either 5, or 10, or 15,000 euros for smaller apartments and so much more for bigger ones, did they not also deserve to be given the chance to reduce interest in them in one way? These young people are in a very unfavourable position, truly unfavourable. Although they do, they are usually highly educated people who are underpaid for their jobs but also because they do not have a lot of internships, and because they are where such wages are. So they could use it, too. When a man assesses whether it's good to go to rent someone's apartment and pay for, say, a smaller apartment 1500 kuna a month and plus a director's or in some way really get to his property which yet ultimately he owns it then turns out to me at least it's best to go into possession. Because when you look at 1,500 kunas in 10 years, that's 24,000 euros. For 24,000 euros, you're practically giving it, and it's not yours again. So I agree with all the colleagues who said that maybe another model should be found to help all of them, especially young people, who have the first real estate. So, the real estate they live in. It wouldn't apply to those who have third and fifth properties right now, and I have no idea what kind of apartments, and I don't know what it is, but simply its living space.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100756	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100757	Thank you. Now if we go back to what the purpose of this law is, it's the law of socially encouraged housing that doesn't solve social issues. So, as soon as someone buys an apartment, I repeat myself a little bit, he doesn't find himself in some difficult situation of life because he still buys an apartment. And that's why those who can't get involved, we're opening them a lease. It is a solution for those who cannot even give that participation to open the lease. Among other things, there's a double role we'd say. Life writes all kinds of stories, and often this participation helps some people who are on the verge of credit ability to examine credits only for the other part. There are such cases, so their participation doesn't count as credit. So, there's a lot of things in life. We've been thinking about whether to put that participation into credit or leave it as 15%. So then one response from the field of services that they communicate with our citizens who are interested in buying an apartment was such that most of them even saved their participation because they didn't get into credit and credit test. So I do have all kinds of situations, but it's primarily an emphasis on this model that whoever has the money, who has the means to buy the apartment, he still buys the property. The one who doesn't have a lease, and the rent on the other hand doesn't tie him to 30 years, which he shouldn't forget. When he buys real estate, he's still 30 years tied up in one unstable condition. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100758	Thank you, Deputy Minister, for your very comprehensive answers. Thank you and the assistants. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100759	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 787. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 78 votes in favour, 32 votes are abstentions and 1 vote against, Law P.Z. passed. No. In the text proposed by the applicant, 787.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100760	We continue with - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 786 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. We have Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic with us. Introductory, Deputy? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100761	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, here are a few words about this legislative proposal. So here are the main issues that are being regulated by this law, first in line with the Commission's comments made in the process of granting a tax on the tonne of the ship, then there are assumptions for the direct application of Regulation No 883/2004. The European Parliament and the Council on the coordination of the social security system shall be consolidated with provisions relating to safety and navigation services, and the provisions relating to fees prescribed by the Maritime Code shall be consolidated and the activities of research, research, studies, photography, sea measurement, seabed and seams of the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia shall be regulated. As regards the compliance of the Maritime Code with the observations made by the European Commission in the process of granting a ship's tonne-based tax as permitted support in accordance with Community guidelines on State aid in maritime transport. In this respect, the provisions of the Maritime Code relating to the definition of maritime shipping operations in the context of the tonnage tax, which include certain auxiliary operations relating to the transport of passengers and the provision of services to passengers other than casino services, the sale of luxury goods and excursion arrangements for passengers, the temporary use and customs of cargo, the transport of cargo and passengers from the port area to the ship and from the ship, the rental of containers, loading, unloading of cargo, the use of office facilities in the function of taking advantage of the ship, the use of facilities for the sale of tickets, passenger and port terminals, and the issue and sale of tickets, administrative jobs and insurance services relating to the ship which is in the Tonnage Tax System are amended and supplemented. The terms and conditions for the participation of freighter ships or thrusters and ditches in tonage tax shall then be defined if 50% of the activities that the freighter or thruster actually performs during the year relate to the performance of maritime navigation operations and if they see the flag of the Republic of Croatia or of another EU Member State or of the European Economic Area, in addition to the transitional provision under which the freighter ships will be registered in a tonne-based system before the entry into force of this law, if they do not satisfy these conditions, from the ship's tax system after the date of entry into force of this law. It is then prescribed that the share of ships leased to third parties must not exceed 20% of the net tonne of a single taxpayer’s fleet, while the net tonne of ships taken into the economic contract must not exceed 75% of the net tonne of ships of a single taxpayer. Thereafter, the conditions for the participation of the ship's ship's head of technical management or the filling of the ship with a crew in a tonage tax shall be laid down. It is then prescribed that in a fleet of ships participating in a ship's tonne-based tax system, at least 60% of the total net tonne of ships must be ships belonging to the Republic of Croatia or to another EU Member State. It is then prescribed that all ships that meet the conditions laid down for participation by so-called ‘Tonage Tax’ must be declared in the system. the rule of all or nothing, and if the application in the tonne-based tax system is submitted by one of the related legal entities, all other related legal persons who have ships that meet the conditions for participation must participate. Second, the law creates assumptions for the direct application of Regulation No 883/2004. the European Parliament and the Council of 29 April 2014 on the coordination of the social security system. The current expression of the Maritime Code in relation to the mandatory insurance of crew members in international navigation shall be aligned with the mandatory direct application of Regulation 883/2004, so the regulation which is thus to be expressed older than national legislation shall apply directly. Thirdly, the consolidation of navigation security services through the draft law is integrated into the system of navigation security services as services of public interest provided by the Republic of Croatia as a coastal and maritime state on the basis of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea since 1982 and the International Convention on the Protection of Human Lives at Sea, etc. SOLAS of 1974 as amended and complemented and in this respect defined the competences of the providers of individual services, the sources of funding of certain services on a non-discriminatory basis for end-users, and the coordination and management mechanisms in the maintenance and development processes of these services, resulting in a sustainable improvement of the level of safety of human life and property at sea in line with the needs of the maritime economy and maritime transport. In this respect, the proposal lays down more clearly the rights and obligations relating to the arrangements and maintenance of the waterways in view of the area of the sea on which these waterways are located. The obligation to arrange and maintain waterways in port areas shall be established by the port managing authorities. As a newspaper, the obligation to regulate and maintain waterways outside the port areas is introduced, therefore, public waterways by the Plovput company on the basis of a specific programme of the Maritime Ministry, which is carried out on the basis of an assessment of the risks to the safety of navigation, human lives and property at sea, thus ensuring the process of assessing the eligibility of public investment in the safety of waterways. Furthermore, the arrangements and conditions for the installation and maintenance of safety navigation facilities which are in the nature of lighthouses, coastal lights, floaters and other markings, signal stations and coastal radio stations, optical, sound, electrical, electronic, radar and other safe navigation devices which are in accordance with the provisions of the International Convention on the Protection of Human Lives at Sea of 1974 as amended and complemented by the obligation to provide the Republic of Croatia for security of implementation in internal sea waters and territorial seas. In this respect, the obligation of the Plovput Trade Company to set up and maintain public-interest navigation facilities while establishing the obligation of the port-based body to operate the port shall be established for the facilities located in the port areas. The obligation of the investor, owner or user of the facility or the means or means of handling in the sea area, which represents a permanent or temporary obstacle on the waterway, such as bridges, cables, immersed objects, research and exploitation facilities of industrial and other mineral raw materials, and similar with regard to the setting up and maintenance of appropriate navigation safety facilities, and all for the safety of navigation in the area of such an obstacle in the area, shall also be more clear and more detailed. In addition, the register of navigation security facilities as a public book managed by the Plovput Commercial Company in electronic form, all for effective management, establishment and maintenance and supervision of the management of these operations, shall be established. In this respect, the obligation of natural or legal persons setting up and maintaining navigation safety facilities shall be established and authorised by the Minister responsible for the sea to establish the arrangements and conditions for the establishment and management and content of the safety facilities register as well as the more detailed obligations of natural and legal persons. A classification of navigation security facilities according to species and importance for navigation safety is also introduced as a newspaper. The methodology for assessing the traffic load and risks of human life and property at sea is also established, as a basis for defining the required number of species and positions or areas of work of public navigation safety facilities, all with a view to improving the level of safety of navigation at sea, based on guidelines and standards of the International Association of Lighthouses. 4. Consolidation of the maritime compensation system. The proposal for a law also consolidates the provisions relating to fees prescribed by the Maritime Code and abolishs the compensation for the safety of navigation and protection against pollution paid only by foreign vessels and yachts intended for entertainment, sport or recreation when they sail and reside in internal sea waters and territorial seas of the Republic of Croatia, which are not prescribed for domestic water facilities, and as such discriminatory according to the provisions of Articles 20, 21 and 56. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Then the compensation for the safety of navigation and pollution protection which is abolished as an independent fee shall be combined with the current compensation for the use of navigation security facilities, now it shall be the revenue of a new shipping security fee paid by all yachts and boats, regardless of their nationality as a compensation for the development and maintenance of material resources for the search and rescue at sea and maritime traffic control and management systems, and the arrangement and maintenance of waterways. The provisions relating to this compensation are in line with the provisions of Articles 20, 21 and 56. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and Article 26 The UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which provides concrete public navigation safety services as a counterproductive measure. In this respect, half of the total revenue from the navigation security compensation is determined as the dedicated revenue used for the development and maintenance of material resources for the search and rescue at sea and maritime traffic control and management systems as the most complex navigation security system on the Adriatic, planning and maintenance of waterways, and for the costs of the collection and compensation, and since half of the revenue achieved so far has been made by foreign water facilities. The establishment of this fee also creates more favourable conditions for the realisation of investment projects co-financed by EU funds. Furthermore, the compensation for the use of navigation security facilities as the income of the Plovput Commercial Company as determined by the current Maritime Code remains and remains further, but all vessels and yachts which are payment bonds for navigation security services are exempt from the obligation to pay, and are only related to ships. This fee is used for public service construction and maintenance of navigation security facilities, lighthouses and other maritime signalling facilities as public services for the vigilance of coastal radio stations serving the protection of human lives and safety at sea in accordance with the Conventional Connections of the Republic of Croatia. The fees for approving the training paid by maritime universities and fees paid by persons subject to the examination for obtaining certificates and assurances of the training of seamen and sailors are existing fees, and this proposal provides that part of the revenue from these fees will be used to cover maintenance costs and the practical part of the examinations required under the STCW Convention of the International Maritime Organisation and Directive 2008/106 on the minimum level of training of seamen, and Directive 2012/35 amending Directive 2008/106 of the European Community. In particular, one of the applicable observations during the monitoring of the implementation of the EU acquis is related to the education and training of seamen and the procedure for issuing certificates and training carried out in October 2014 by representatives of the European Commission and the European Maritime Safety Agency EMSA. It was applied precisely to the conduct of practical parts of the exams, which refers to fire extinguishing, the use of lifeboats, the use of lifeboats, the verification of theoretical knowledge on relevant simulators, equipment and the like. By raising the quality of maritime training in the Republic of Croatia, the number of foreign citizens seeking Croatian certificates is also increasing, and thus the revenues of the state budget are increasing. In 2014 the revenue from the examinations passed by foreign citizens amounts to 9 million 175 thousand kuna and an indicative of 50% of the total revenue from the exams, and in this respect half of the revenue from this fee is determined as intended revenue. The fees for enrolment in the relevant registers, i.e. the eyewitnesses of the Republic of Croatia, shall be abolished as a continuation of measures to relieve economic operators and increase the competitiveness of the Croatian flag. The volume of discharge can be seen in the example of a new passenger ship, such as 90 gross tonnes, carrying 50 passengers. In 2013, before making any money, the owner had to pay 7075 kuna various fees and parafiscal fees. And after these measures are adopted, that amount will be 160 kuna. For example, for charter and yacht of 15 meters with a 100 kilowatt engine carrying 12 passengers also saves about 9 thousand kuna. This reduces the number of fees and simplifies the collection system and increases the competitiveness of our economic space. Fifth. The law regulates the research, research, photography and measurement activities of the sea, seabed, sea underground of the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to approve the examination of the sea, sea bottom, marine underground of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs in order to seek the prior consent of other relevant competent authorities of the state administration. The conditions for sailing, passing and staying foreign, war and scientific research vessels and other foreign vessels or vessels that are being explored by the internal sea waters and the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia as well as the conditions, arrangements and methods of conducting research, testing, photography and measurement of the sea, seabed or seawater inland waters of the territorial sea, the epicontinental and economic belt of the Republic of Croatia will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through two Regulations, one of which will apply to civil and other warships. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Finally, this law corrects the perceived errors in the pronunciation of certain provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100762	Thank you very much. Replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100763	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Deputy, as you know, the Maritime Code has arranged the sea and sub-sea spaces of the Republic of Croatia, as well as internal seawater, territorial sea, economic belt, epicontinental belt. You said in your introduction, and it also says in the reasoning of the law that the licenses for exploring the sea, seabed and sea underground will now be issued by the Ministry of Science, as has been the case so far. So I'm interested in, here's an answer to the MPs, does that mean that your ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, will then issue hydrocarbon exploration permits in the Adriatic? Are you going to issue this for the territorial sea for which part of the tender has been opened by the hydrocarbons Agency on the one hand? And on the other hand, I believe that you know that this tender is then the opposite of the Strategy for the Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which said that it was forbidden to explore hydrocarbons in the territorial sea, so I was interested in what position would the ministry and you personally be on the issue of these research permits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100764	Zdenko Antešić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100765	Thank you very much. Regarding these research matters that you spoke of, Mr. Representative, in the transitional provisions, it has been left to remain under current regulations for a transitional period of 6 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100766	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, a colleague, Slavko Linic, was to speak but was not present, so the club lost the right to debate on this point. And there it is. ... We've already said you've lost your right, but here's your colleague Linic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Oh, no? On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourist-Stranka Rada, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100767	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy with his associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100768	Well, I gave him my word, but he said, [[/Intruder: Well, he was in the assembly and you didn't give him your word. It's not right.]] Well, when he came in, I said, "Well, don't get on his behalf now if he doesn't object." [[No, there was a man at the door, you wouldn't let him speak.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, buddy. ... Well, no, he didn't get angry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I gave him the opportunity to speak, he said no, that he would answer individually. And don't speak for him. Comrade Novak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100769	Thank you very much. Well, to be honest, the theme of the Maritime Law is not something I've dealt with in my life so far, and I don't want to take my right to get too much into a professional discussion. But there is, reading the reasoning of this law, even we who are not close to it see some of the things that I think have already become a stalker rule when it comes to this government but especially when it comes to this ministry. Dear Deputy Minister Antesic has devoted a considerable amount of time to explain why the income so far will be PLOPUT d.o.o. to end in the state budget in the future. Knowing the way it works, the way the Honorable Minister thinks about it, I suppose, in the very near future, it could happen that this same Plovdiv would be for sale as others or that it would be systematic not to surround it, that it would be systematically destroyed so that eventually it could be sold to someone who might have been promised, perhaps agreed, maybe just to give light signals. But the fact is that, as far as I understand this text in the opening part, practically the commitments are increased in this company, and on the other hand, from this text and finally from Mr Antesic's opening statement, it is evident that a drastic reduction in the incomes of the same company is planned. I think that can only mean one thing, we go, we create a path to degrade that company, today or tomorrow we sell it to someone, or if we destroy that job the same, we assign a lucrative job to someone else. Since this ministry is no longer surprising to me, I have to mention the topic that was current the other day when one of my colleagues asked for a break related to the privatisation of Jadroplovo. So it is only two conditions that 60 % of ships under the Croatian flag remain under Croatian flag for three years and for the same period of time to retain seamen on those ships. Other conditions such as holding headquarters in Split, retaining workers and sailors for a period of 5 years, obligation to board trainees, are all lifted. But interesting in which time is going to privatize or sell. Although the Maritime Union believes that this is their memo, although they said they have nothing against privatisation and suggest a model of working stock, or better known as the ESO model, we as a party will never agree that such companies are privatised and we do not see any need for it. Interestingly, only a few years ago was the stock exchange of the same company 930 kuna, and now, if this data is correct, it is 121 kuna. Interestingly, 166 million kuna can be obtained for the company’s shares today, that is, for the part that is for sale, and that has not long been 1.6 billion kuna. It doesn't matter, but it's very important that the fleet is 30% bigger, if it's to believe this data and I have no reason to doubt it. After all, I even think that my colleague Baranovic probably read them from that memo the other day. So now I'm asking who's in the interest of who and why. I think this entire resort, the entire ministry, is very mature to move the complete DORH, the BOOK there, to make room for themselves there, and to analyze all this work this ministry has done during this term.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100770	I'm a colleague of Novak's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100771	This is part of the topic, selling companies that...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100772	It's not. But that's not the topic of the law we're discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100773	I apologize, but it says here in this law name and last name that this firm is listed. The companies sold or prepared for sale are listed in the light of this law. So we're talking about the same subject and no one's going to do this to me, and they're not going to prove to me that this isn't another malversion because there's no logic for this kind of thing. The second part of the problem I wanted to mention, but I immediately said that this is not the problem that I used to deal with in life, but it is the status of sailors or sailors who sail up to 183 days. So it is defined by law, if they have to sail up to 183 days a year, they have to pay income tax, and that turns out to be quite significant figures. In doing so, no one is interested in the reason why the sailor may not be able to accomplish more than 183 days. He can break, he can have a car accident, he can be all broken up in a hospital. And now that man is double-punished, except he can't sail and make money, he's still well-fated by the state, peeling off his skin. But there's no understanding I don't know why. I don't know how many of those sailors there are in total, but I think it's to get rid of the team before the text we got from the Marine Unions, the memo we got I guess all or at least members of the Transport Committee, offers a solution that sounds pretty logical to me, sounds right. However, it is obvious that there is no tripartite dialogue, that there is no or perhaps a deal has been played and has been made on its own. But I got another call from the field, my parents' intervention. I can't argue that what I'm saying is a fact, but it's a very interesting story. A case of the collapse of the Pomorac company that's on a ship whose company fails. Everything he has is paid by the Republic of Croatia. After that, he does not exercise the right that other unemployed do. I don't know if it's true, but if that's the case, then it's really disputable. What about families where there are children with developmental difficulties, and this Maritime Code applies to sailors who have such families, there are those in that case, for example, the mother of the child has the right to a four-hour working time or extended maternity leave until the eighth year of the child's life. When that sailor gets off the boat, then that mother of that child loses that right. So he has to either go to work or spend eight hours at work or become an unemployed person. What happens when that sailor gets back on board? He doesn't have a fixed date when he'll board a ship, on which he sails. In that case, the mother of that child must immediately remove the papers, which is often impossible, not often but living in Croatia, so we know how much it takes for such paperwork. What in such cases? Otherwise, the parents of these children swear to a strange solution, the financing of employment, which is consciously working against the law, but it is the only solution they can make. So, he goes to hire himself somewhere, pays himself that he's a gardener, that I don't know what it is because there was a little before the gender-equality raid, then I'm going to tell myself that she's a maid and that she's an iron or a housewife to keep this child's mother's rights. I think that regardless of what two different ministries are concerned that there should be at least a little consensus between the ministries to find a solution because this is not a solution that burdens too many people in the country. I think it is ultimately in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to have satisfied citizens that unfortunately the practice so far does not quite show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100774	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100775	I'd like to thank Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Deputy Associates, Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code does not make any significant improvements either in the conditions of operations of the maritime economy. First of all, I think of boaters or in the functioning of public authorities in the sea. As Mr. Deputy Minister pointed out in his opening section the fundamental motivation of the amendment of this Maritime Code is in the remarks concerning the provisions... The European Commission sent to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport, by tone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These remarks are based on the ever-new requirements of the General Finance Administration, which are the result of the general provisions of the EU guidelines governing the tonne-based taxes as authorised support for national shipowners. Before I say more about this, I would like to say that, when the Law of the Sea was adopted in 2004, the previous Government made a great deal of effort and effort to make the conditions of operations of the shipowners in international navigation under the Croatian flag, or Croatian shipowners as competitive as possible, thus creating conditions for the return of Croatian shipboats under the Croatian flag. One of the first and basic measures that we had decided at the time was the area of tax policy, and then there was a number of dilemmas within the Government whether, in one maritime code, a basic act of Croatian maritime law should be united and provisions relating to taxes as well as the legal and social status of Croatian seamen, or whether it should remain in their lex specialis laws that normally work or the Ministry of Finance when it comes to tax laws or the Ministry of Labour and Social Care when it comes to the rights of Croatian employees and then Croatian sailors. And yet all those provisions that define the conduct of Croatian shipowners have been included in this Maritime Code. In this maritime code, we freed them from paying taxes at the time of the world's largest shipping market, and Croatian sailors who have been sailing for more than 6 months in the international navigation of income tax payments, which he had just spoken of, and counterpart Novak rightly made certain remarks that were made to us in the Assembly by the Maritime Union. That is why, when at the time of the world's largest conukture of the maritime market, we enabled Croatian boaters to be able to strengthen, bring ships under the Croatian flag on the one hand and restore the fleet, so that during that time, and the great conuktures of the world market are restored fleet of Croatian boaters and tankers' sailing and Atlantic navigation, both the Adriatic and the Sailing Oilers, etc. etc. It seems to me that, and this is what counterpart Novak has already rightly warned about, it seems to me that they are unreasonable or unacceptable, it may be unacceptable, the position of the ministry and government to enable the sale of the third in the power of the Croatian shipowner Jadroplovo in those times of the current crisis in the world and in the world shipping industry. We do not understand that the Government will significantly change the conditions of the competition through the second round of competitions which, if the competition is completed and why the first round of the competition shows interest, it is very easy for this shipowner to leave Croatia within 3 years as regards the fleet and the obligation to hire Croatian sailors. But as far as the headquarters of the company that was supposed to stay in Split and in Croatia probably won't be anything. And I believe that this ministry should have intervened, reacted and not allowed the other round of competitions to change those basic settings that are, in a certain way, more acceptable to where and where they are now mentioned. But to fully return to the Naval Code, I believe that when the government set out to amend the Maritime Code, it was then necessary to implement this tripartite agreement between the government, the union and the shipowners. I would be interested in Mr. Deputy to tell us whether such an amendment to the Maritime Code is a fundamental law which defines the operation of the shipowners and largely refers to the life and work of Croatian sailors, or whether the government has come to the agreement of the Association of Croatian Shipowners Mare nstrum and the Union of Seamen. As far as I have information, this agreement has not been reached, and if we were able to reach it at a time when there were much greater resistance within the government itself to introduce tax provisions and social provisions that define the life of the seamen, then we could now also determine and come out to meet or at least respond to the demands of the seamen's trade unions that have justified requirements for me and when it comes to the issue of seafaring in international navigation and when it comes to their health insurance and social status. What is more than a change in the provisions of the Tonnage Tax that was introduced two years ago and a part of our obligations to join the EU, these Laws of the Sea overcompensate the various fees of which Mr. Deputy Minister spoke. Therefore, the Government does not abolish this parafiscal charge, which is largely imposed on Croatian shipmen but simply overcompensates them except for one fee that is abolished and then applies to the registers of maritime facilities, which, according to my knowledge and accept, however, shipowners sailing in international navigation cannot accept that, through the amendment of the Maritime Law, a good announcement, i.e. a compensation for maritime goods to be paid by all shipowners in Croatia and those who sail in international navigation. In my opinion, the ship of Croatian shipmen who may never have sailed in the Croatian territorial sea is sailing somewhere in the Atlantic, the Pacific or somewhere where there is a fee for using maritime goods in the Republic of Croatia, and such a decision that should be defined by Croatian boaters is contrary to the maritime strategy that has been made and that is going to make Croatian boaters competitive and attractive on the world maritime market. In this context, we should also mention the fact that by joining the EU, we have been forced to abolish the fee paid when buying vignettes, owners of foreign yachts and boats, because of the fact that the owners of boats and yachts come from EU Member States are discriminated against. However, according to these provisions, a new fee is now being introduced which will be paid by all shipowners and yacht owners in the Republic of Croatia, so such compensation will be a new imposition for shipowners in the Republic of Croatia. If we are aware of the fact that a new year ago, we voted the Marine Fisheries Act, which, instead of boredom, is 10 or 13 thousand, which Mr. Rilje said in his previous presentation, there are 13,000 users of small fishing benefits in the Republic of Croatia and that we place them at 3.5 thousand changes to the Marine Fisheries Act. So 10 thousand boat owners, in line with the order of islanders in the Republic of Croatia, on the one hand, have the possibility to live on Croatian islands and to facilitate their standard in a certain way and their life by catching fish through small fishing. At the same time, the government imposes a new charge on them for their ships that they will have to pay through a new fee. Furthermore, what needs to be mentioned, and I have also asked the question in my replica to Mr. Deputy Minister. In fact, I asked you, Mr. Deputy, to tell me what your/your/your/your ministry's position is when it comes to issuing licenses to conduct hydrocarbon research and exploitation in the Adriatic. Despite the fact that this tender is carried out by the Ministry of Economy or the Agency for Hydrocarbons, I believe that only the right to interpret can be discussed about the status of marine space and maritime space in the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. What's this about? It is the fact that the Croatian Parliament has adopted a strategy for the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia which has prescribed that unexplored areas can be explored for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Central and South Adriatic, and that it is the basis of this strategy adopted by this Assembly of the Ministry of Spatial Planning only authorised to interpret that strategy. And this has given the Ministry in the process of calling for competitions for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic so that it can explore the use of oil and gas in the Adriatic but not within the limits of the territorial sea, which is very important. However, the agency did not implement and respect such a decision by Minister Anka Mrak-Taritash, but in the entire Adriatic area, at a distance of 6km from the island and 10km from the coast, launched a tender for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons even though the use of hydrocarbons in the area of the Central and South Adriatic was not possible for the Parliament to call. So I asked the question, Mr. Deputy, to answer on a scale whether the resolution of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure would give consent to the hydrocarbons agency to enable and allow individual companies that have reported for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. This is very important, this fact is very important especially for those of us who live by the sea and on the islands because we believe that strategic environmental impact assessment on the one hand, and on the other hand to do a Benefit analysis of whether exploration of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic is only 6 kilometers away from the coast, i.e. Croatian islands generally acceptable, and I am saying that it will depend largely on the position of your resolution ministry. As for me to return, I would ask you to plead in that sense if you have the authority to declare yourself when it comes to the status of exploration and exploitation of oil or gas in the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia. I've said well, to return, to return a little more to the part where this Naval Code is governed by social rights. The maritime union already spoke about this, counterpart Novak asked that all seamen sailing in international navigation, if according to the Maritime Code have a special position in the Croatian labour legislation, to enable them to make their way out of the numbers during their stay that time is included in their navigation and not to be punished twice, the first time they will have to pay taxes and the second time clear that those days do not enter them within 6 months which, if they meet, are exempt from paying income taxes. It would be good if that part had been realised with the maritime union, that part had been resolved and that indeed the seamen sailing in international navigation so that they would not have to pay income tax to include their time of sick leave as if they were carrying out when they were sailing, because clearly for that time indeed they would and that their contract had not been offered to fulfil obligations and to be on board. And the other thing they were also looking for was a part of the issue of resolving their health insurance that was defined by the Law of the Sea so that there would be no overlap that they would pay twice a health contribution, one through a contract that they had with the ship's ship and another time that they would pay contributions to the Republic of Croatia in order for members of their families, what Mr Novak said before when he mentioned the wife and children of the seamen would not during when they were not on board to remain without health care. These are two very important parts that should have been made visible through the Maritime Code, since the Maritime Code in its provisions has also resolved the status of seamen. And their third essential request was and it was related to the benefited internship which should also be arranged for sailors on board and older than 60 years of age whether it really is more necessary for them to pay additional amounts to determine the benefits of work experience. Therefore, I am sorry that the Union of Seamen who has always been with the Resort Ministry in such relations could agree on all those provisions that go towards the protection of Croatian seamen as one of the best and Croatian export products, knowing the value and knowledge of our seamen that the simple union of seamen as their roof professional association is not here, the trade union did not come and found common language in the adoption of changes and addition of the Maritime Code. Therefore, all for all the reasons that I have cited and when it comes to the relationship with Croatian shipmen and when it comes to the Union of the seamen, the Croatian Democratic Community Club cannot support such a proposal to amend the Maritime Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100776	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100777	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bačić is indeed true and it is embarrassing to remove the possibility of small coastal fishing for nearly tens of thousands of users who have had this so far and to introduce a new imposition. Because this small coastal fishing license story is now very current, the competition takes a few days, only 3.5 thousand people will get that option, it will determine the ministries but the procedure itself is terrifying. In order to get what you have received so far, you must simply hand over a dozen papers for which in cities you must spend a certain part of the day or time and for small islands and their inhabitants it is almost impossible mission. You must submit a personal examination of the appropriations you have so far had for small coastal fishing, boat navigation, statement of the number of household members, confirmation of the tax administration of the amount of income for each household member, conviction of residence for each household member, confirmation of unemployment, a solution of disability, a copy of the defence card, we can still understand all but so much paper that you would say to yourself I must now give up so that at least those who understand that they can't get into that censorship so that at least we can get a license for recreational fishing, if you don't then lose the right to both, if you accidentally do something wrong then you lose both. So, in some ways, these people are being blackmailed and they live on the sea and live on the sea, and they have a boat for it. And now the state is imposing on them. It all reminds me of these famous island IDs. Now, I have to buy a ticket on the ferry to Jadrolini's ferry. I have to give you five IDs if I'm traveling with one car and my family somewhere on my way to Rijeka, that's terrible. It takes a few minutes to even issue a card, and I don't know what we got with it all together. We simply go from problem to problem, build up administration and everyone will be dissatisfied, everyone will be dissatisfied, and especially the inhabitants of small islands who in cities just to get confirmations of their residence and from the IRS have to spend a few days, terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100778	Thank you. Branko Bacic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100779	Thank you, Vice President. You have rightly concluded this. Namely, the Ministry of Agriculture is trying to convince Croatian fishermen who have had small fishing permits that through the negotiation process it was not possible to obtain permission that all those who were fishing by 31 December 2014 could continue small island fishing in the form of small coastal fishing. In fact, when they fill out all those forms and forms you mentioned earlier, they will indeed get that privilege, and 9 or 10 thousand will remain outside that system and the minister assures them that if they meet the pattern without error, they will be able to continue in the Adriatic Sea. And the fact that if it is so similar to doing small coastal fishing and recreational fishing then there was no problem in convincing the European Commission that all 13 out of 12 000 of them are as many as there are boats registered in the small coastal fisheries system can continue to do so. This would be in a certain way to show concern primarily for Croatian islanders, but also for all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live by the Adriatic Sea, who deal with this additional small fishing. And as for the island card, I do believe that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure should not have entered and created such a problem for the islanders not only because it creates complications in the purchase of the map, but rather because it is not a small amount. About 5 million kunas this year will be povertyed for the issue of these IDs. So the complete system of paying island IDs for each car around 80 kuna, and I think somewhere around 50 thousand vignets were issued while we were at the ministry it was about 4 to 5 million cost only to issue... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100780	Thank you. Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100781	You have done well with your colleague Bačić all the faults of this law and all the problems generally in terms of maritime, island, coast and everything. You also spoke of non-compliance with the measures of strategies or even individual decisions of previous governments. So here's the freshest example when the government of the Republic of Croatia's decision is not respected on the most frequent line of 431 leaving Zadar for Preko. Namely, the government's decision of 20.11.2011 made and it was explicitly said that the move of line 431 to Luka Gaženica would form a new line of 409 on the route across the peninsula to Zadar that 8 thousand inhabitants of Ugljan and Pasman could arrive at the destination in Zadar or in the centre of Zadar. It has been 3.5 years since that decision, the Line Coastal Transport Agency did not find it appropriate to open a competition at all, and no competition has been called today, and a line has been moved to Gagenica early or late next month. We know it takes a certain deadline for the competition and that by the new year it can't be over. And here's the essence of your whole speech, your whole exposure to how much you respect decisions, how much you think about islands, about islanders, about seafaring and everything that matters. In fact, there are people in the ministry who are competent and who know it very well, but unfortunately there are people in command who don't know the least about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100782	Branko Bacic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100783	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You're a colleague of Jerolim's. So, at the end of 2011, when it was already known that the construction of Gaženica is part of the traffic that comes to Zadar's Travel Port to move to Gaženica with the right to make the only smart decision, which is that for the residents of Preka and the island of Ugljan, instead of going to Gaženica, the costs that are exposed to transport to the city of Zadar will be introduced by the restoring ministry, or the government, which will connect Preko with Zadar. Until traffic has started to work in Gagenica, we can find an excuse for the government for why it did not, however, when it has already been announced that it is moving towards Gagenica, the government has no reason not to do so. There's no excuse and no money. I believe that only in a month how much oil was on the Croatian market and the world market whose price was significant, that in that month, the government saved, or a resorient agency at the fuel costs of Jadrolinija, there were other shipowners that could have introduced another 2.3 lines on Croatian islands in those months, and that would not have been felt in the state budget. So there's no reason that the government doesn't connect the Over with the city of Zadar at the moment when the line is moved from Luke Prev to Gagenica. I really don't see what that reason is, a team more that there is a government decision on determining state, local and county lines on which to call a tender. The agency if it didn't do it, but what it has to do right now to get rid of it as soon as possible. And you're a colleague of Jerolimov... I think it's three months if the appeal comes and after his resolution can be very easy to pass this year without that line being established by the government's obligation to establish the basis of its own decision, which is primarily economically justified and will help all the people of Coal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100784	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100785	Dear Madam Vice President, Deputy Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code, which provides for appropriate amendments and complements to comply with EU directives, but in order to better address problems in this area. Given that this law applies to the segment and the entire Maritime Code, to the segment of activity burdened with problems, it is necessary to better regulate it in the future, and in order to consider the possibility of increasing the rights of seamen and health insurance, even better regulation of the rights of the seafarers from pension insurance, especially the benefits of a job, even better regulation of the rights and opportunities of those seamen and staff from this activity who have lost their job without their guilt, e.g. Due to diseases, even more efficient arrangements, regulation and arrangement of training training, even better protection and safety in the operation of scientific and research vessels, try to ensure that as many personnel as possible on board ships with Croatian flag, consider ensuring the functioning of Plovdiv, which is certainly important for the Republic of Croatia and the development of maritime transport on waterways. I would, of course, refer to these amendments and the additions of the law, and not to the future ones that will be, although I believe that it is a common desire for all of us to have this area as a maritime land as well as possible. This law now harmonizes the provisions of the Maritime Code with the European Commission's remarks in the process of granting the ship's tonnage tax as permitted support, and in accordance with the European Commission's statement, in accordance with Community guidelines on State aid in maritime transport. Of course, tax policy should try, of course, to ensure the status of domestic shipmen within the limits of the possible. The provisions of the laws governing compulsory pension and health insurance for crew members in international navigation are amended in such a way as to create assumptions for the direct application of Regulation 883/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 2004 on the coordination of the social security system. The direct application of that Regulation to seafarers on board is one of the Member States of the European Union, meaning the application of the legislation of the State under which the flag sails with the possibility of exceptions, either at individual level, or at the level of an agreement between two or more Member States. This proposal for a law lays down more clearly the rights and obligations relating to the arrangements and maintenance of the waterways in respect of the areas of the sea where these waterways are located. In this respect, the arrangements and maintenance of waterways in port areas by port managers shall be established. The paper introduces an obligation to regulate and maintain waterways outside the port areas, public waterways by the Plovput company on the basis of a specific programme of the maritime ministry to be carried out on the basis of an assessment of the risks to the safety of navigation, human life and property at sea, thus ensuring that public investment in waterways is justified. The arrangements and conditions for the installation and maintenance of navigation safety facilities which are in the nature of lighthouses, coastal lights, floaters and other markings, signal stations, radio stations and all other devices and markings, and in accordance with the provisions of the International Convention on the Protection of Human Lives at Sea, which is required to ensure that the Republic of Croatia is safe to sail inland waters and the territorial sea. In this respect, the obligations of the company Plovdiv d.o.o. in relation to and maintenance of public-interest navigation facilities, while for facilities located in port areas it establishes the obligation of port managers. The obligation of the investor, owner or user of the facility or of the means, i.e. holder of operations in the sea area, which is a permanent or temporary obstacle on the waterway, shall be established. So bridges, cables, immersion facilities, research and exploitation facilities for industrial and other mineral raw materials with regard to the setting and maintenance of relevant navigation safety facilities, and all for the safety of navigation in the area of such an obstacle in space. The register of navigation security facilities as a public book managed electronically by Plovdiv as a public authority, all for the effective management of the establishment and maintenance and supervision of such operations, shall also be introduced. The obligations of natural or legal persons setting up and maintaining navigation safety facilities shall also be laid down and authorised by the Minister responsible for the sea to establish the arrangements and conditions for the establishment and management and content of the safety facilities register, as well as the detailed obligations of natural and legal persons. This proposal also introduces an electronic port register and gives authority to port captains with regard to the management of the port and lays down the obligations of the port and port managing authorities with regard to the delivery of data to the port register. These amendments and amendments to the laws consolidate and more precisely regulate the provisions relating to the fees prescribed by the Maritime Code and how we have already heard the compensation for the safety of navigation and the protection against pollution paid by only foreign vessels intended for entertainment, sport and recreation, when they sail and reside in the internal sea and the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia, which is not prescribed for domestic water facilities and in this respect discriminatory. In order to maintain the revenue of the state budget, the existing compensation for the safety of navigation and pollution protection is combined with the current compensation for the use of navigation security facilities, which is now the income of the company Plovdiv d.o.o. owned by the State in the part relating to yachts and boats in the new shipping security compensation paid as State budget revenue by all yachts and boats, regardless of their nationality. Half of the revenue from this fee will be used to cover the cost of maintenance and construction of the maritime traffic control and management system as the most complex navigation security system in the Adriatic, cover the cost of use, maintenance and development of material resources for the search and rescue of human lives at sea, and achieve integrated management of financial resources for the needs of waterway control and maintenance projects outside the port areas with the possibility of achieving favourable conditions in the realisation of investment projects co-financed by the European Union funds. Of course, the width of this fee now includes one larger number of vessels. Here I must note that in order to ensure the revenue of Plovdiv in this year, here is the preparation, this I have received as a notice of the amendments of the SDP, the SDP Club, on the date of application of the security compensation provision, so on the start of the application of the navigation security fee which will actually start on the date 1.1.2016. Compensation for the use of navigation security facilities as income of the company Plovdiv d.o.o. As established by the current Maritime Code, it remains and continues. In relation to the existing normative solution from the obligation to pay compensation for use of facilities, the safety of navigation is excluded from all boats and yachts which are payment bonds for navigation security services and are related to ships. This fee is used for public service construction and maintenance of navigation, lighthouses and other facilities, maritime signalling as well as public services of the Coastal Radio Monitoring Service which serves to protect human lives and safety at sea in accordance with the Conventional Obligations of the Republic of Croatia. The fees for approving the training paid by maritime universities and the fees paid by persons who take the test for obtaining certificates and the conviction of the training of seamen and boaters are existing compensations with the fact that more detailed provisions have been laid down in the Maritime Names and Certificates Regulations so far. As a newspaper on these amendments, it is prescribed that part of the revenue from these fees will be used to cover the cost of maintaining the practical part of the examination as an obligation to the Convention of the International Maritime Organisation and of the EU Directive 2806 EC on the minimum level of training of seamen and its amendments, so that the Directives amending this Directive do not give you the numbers now. The fee for enrollment in the corresponding registers, i.e. the witnesses of the Republic of Croatia, shall be abolished thereby reducing the revenues of the state budget by one million kuna at the annual level. However, the suspension of this fee will ultimately not have a negative impact on the state budget since amendments to the Law on maritime goods and seaports extend the obligation to pay compensation for the use of maritime goods and those maritime facilities for which the registration fee has been paid so far. And the sole compensation for the use of maritime goods should become the full income of the state budget. This reduces the number of fees and simplifies the collection system. It's interesting just that here's what the number of vessels will be covered and all the vessels will be covered by this fee. The proposal for this law regulates the activity, research, research, photography, or measurement of the sea, seabed or sea underground, the territorial sea, the epicontinental belt and the economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in such a way that authorisation for research, testing, photography and/or measurement of the sea, seabed or marine underground is issued by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, requesting the prior consent of the other relevant competent authorities of the national administration of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, here I have to say that the SDP club will support the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100786	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100787	Thank you very much. So here is counterpart Rilje, as you announced in your discussion that the SDP club will propose an amendment to this part of the text relating to Plovdiv d.o.o. If I have understood this amendment in particular, three is likely to be related to the company's income and will not be in the state budget, which means that, if, of course, that amendment of the SDP Club is accepted as I believe it will, because in the end you are part of the same political party which will mean that the reason has prevailed and that the requests of workers and the Plovput and those who wrote this all together and that they are not so much. Here, Mr. Antesic shakes his head that it will not pass, that it will not go towards systematic destruction of another economic entity in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100788	Damir Rilje, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100789	Dear colleague Novak, look at the Plovdiv, so it's infrastructure for me. As for the waterways and the safety of sea traffic on our territorial seas, so he cares about a lot of things. I also said in my presentation that it seems to me that, not that it seems to me, but that it is a company of importance for the Republic of Croatia and here I believe that in this context everyone will treat that company. And in the end, we are a maritime country with a sea continuity and I believe that then we must have one let's call it the infrastructure manager and the safety and safety of maritime transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100790	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague, Slavko Linic. You've reported it individually. You've reported an individual hearing by your colleagues. But from the scene, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100791	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have to say, I'm not happy that we have an urgent matter to discuss. From the very explanation of the emergency procedure, you see compliance with European norms that could have been more consistent a month later, and with our discussions we could have improved the text. Because let's be honest, there's no big deal about the amendment, but I believe that in the second reading, perhaps the motionary would appreciate a part of our debate. So I really don't see the need for us to go to an emergency procedure like this. On the other hand, we see that the improvement of the text, that the alignment with the European community, that we have managed to regulate the tax system that is in favour of our shipowners and that it is not contrary to European directives, so I would say we can be satisfied with these solutions. We can also be satisfied with the solutions when it comes to marine health and pension insurance. I can see that in all of us, the doubt is causing a change in the new fees, the elimination of the old and the fact that it's not going to mean more compensation. Now that we observe that this is an area regulated by Articles 5, 13 and 53 and 54. And I think that doubt, because in your explanation, you said there wouldn't be any more giving, that's what you said in your explanation. In Articles 5, 13, 53 and 54, you did not fence it in any way. So I suggest that perhaps alone in those transitional provisions of 53, 54 and you say that they bring one and the other minister but not more than current burdens if Article 5 is lifted for foreign ships, Article 13, we define a new article, we change the article 50 in which we see how we will determine and, in particular, point four, we determine that special fee. In the transitional provisions of Article 53, 54, you could only determine that ministers should not define more than they are boredom, and there would not be this doubt, our mistrust, because the introduction made it clear that there would be no increase, and then we can only determine that they must not establish a new compensation above the one that was bored. And it is evident that it will be the ministry's income and that it will primarily go to the rescue and safety of navigation, which is acceptable to us. Therefore, the suggestion is to try one of the restrictions placed in 53, 54, as transitional provisions to really remove the doubt whether it will be bigger or not and not to remain that only in the opening argument. Now, this law improves things. We still have some things that aren't solved until the end when it comes to the Maritime Code. For example, there is insufficiently clear definition of the safety of port traffic. I'll say it at the river port and an example of the river harbor. How often I like to be in the harbor for me is a shock when I see the ship sailing and bonding without what you call it a tow truck or a thruster or what we call a trailerman as old-fashioned. It is the will of the port captain, it is not sufficiently clear certain conditions of sailing in the port and given at will I would tell agents who are relying on the knowledge and expertise of pilots and captains. I don't even doubt their knowledge, but I do know something else, when the cargo ship itself agrees to destroy the property of Croatia in which every taxpayer in Croatia invested money. He destroys the coast, he destroys the waterfront, he undermines the foundations. And we know what that looks like and all of it is paid from citizens' tax revenues. It means that we would allow the shipowner to spend as little as possible, the more money we are destroying the property of Croatian citizens. This is unacceptable, and I think that in article 19 that regulates the question of the tow trucker, you have to make sure that by law we prescribe that in ports of public interest or whatever you want, public transport ports can't be tied without a tow truck, they can't. We have to keep the property and we're responsible for the taxpayer's money that they spend. And do not allow the freedom of the port captain and I would say to the personal interests or business interests of agents and others. I think this should put a very clear limit on Article 19. I still have a problem with one thing, we talk a lot about control, security, safe navigation facilities and everything, and we talk a little bit about sea pollution and basically how to strengthen Croatian ports to invest in protecting the sea from pollution. And we simply know that in that part we have individual companies that are completely, completely on the verge of an economic justification and in fact we have not enough through the Maritime Code to protect our seas from pollution. Because I simply believe they must have their profits in the ports and must invest in cleanliness and onion and waterways. So I think that part of us could find certain solutions, too, if we had a chance through another reading. And another thing, Article 18, you regulate Article 54c, which is sports and other activities, but on waterways. And here you've established the administrative procedure and everything you need, and what if we have sports activities out of the waterways? You didn't give yourself the opportunity to handle this by administrative procedure. Now I ask if it is possible to determine in Article 54c not only on waterways but on other or vice versa, if it is not Article 54c, then it could also be an article where you determine the possibility of research and historical recordings, etc. to enable sports activity and define the administrative procedure that you would give these opportunities. Why am I talking about it? I say this because in Europe, more tourists are drawn to underwater diving, which is sport activity. The underwater diving is interesting if you have an object at the bottom of the sea. And thanks to your familiarity so far, many sports societies have come to this, received the consent of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, received the Ministry of Tourism and now the basic question is whether you have the possibility to allow the sinking of ships, if not on the maritime road. Can you define the sea route, and what if it's out of the seaway? You probably didn't define the administrative procedure. That is why I believe that with these few improvements, we could very much contribute to the development of tourism, to bringing 12 months of European athletes into Croatia, to make bigger revenues possible, and you could define what you have not defined so far. On the other hand, strengthen the safety of ports, the protection of port infrastructure and the anti-structure, and also the protection of the sea. So these are suggestions that, unfortunately, I don't know how many you'll be able to respect, given that you went to an emergency procedure, but obviously things you haven't defined yet, and yet you missed out on this proposal that's ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100792	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100793	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Linic, changes to the Maritime Code, have led to the settlement of certain fees paid by shipowners for the service of using the Plovput navigation facilities and certain compensations that were the original revenues of the state budget, which later ended in Plovdiv. It is a fundamental issue and what concerns Plovdiv is whether the amendments to this Naval Code will remain with significantly smaller resources that belonged to it before these surpluses and changes to the fees paid in navigation in the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia. You know very well when the government proposed to change the fees that were the original incomes of HANDA and HROTE that never again, even though there were promises that they would, that never again these two agencies would have those funds, such as when these fees were the original income of both HANDA and HROTE. I am sure that even after these amendments to the Maritime Code, they will never again have the resources they had before, despite the amendment of the SDP, to ensure that they are provided with an annual plan and programme. When something of your origin is yours and it comes to you independently, and as soon as it has to go through the state budget, you've been Minister of Finance, you know that at a certain point you need to react and some other holes in the state budget patch up, so the question is whether Plovdiv will be a priority... And the other thing about the obligation to use the capes and tow truckers in the ports, you mentioned the Port of Rijeka is defined by the rules and the Maritime Code, and you shouldn't even dare the port captain to have a flat-rate price, whether he needs a cape and whether he needs a tow truck. And on the other hand, what there are peddlers who depend greatly on whether or not it is used by a particular boat in port, so it is one who reacts before anyone with a view to it because the peddlers depend on it and do not allow easy ships to sail without their assistance, so I don't think that in that part can achieve that they will reduce safety...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100794	Thank you. Slavko Linic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100795	My colleague Bačić, however, thinks that the revenues of Plovdiv from previous practice show that they are quite sufficient to maintain all those resources that are important for the safety of navigation. Plus, these technologies are different today, they don't have the lighthouses anymore, something's quite different working on those lighthouses, everything's managed by remote control. We see that it will be invested in monitoring sailing in the Adriatic, so I think it's not bad for the money from the vessels that had a completely different activity 10 years ago, to be directed into the state budget. There is always the biggest problem, the deficit of the state budget, but here it is very clear that the money obtained from the boats can only be invested in search, rescue, meteorology, etc. It is therefore also intended in the state budget. I therefore hope that the ministry will also have that responsibility if they are not some general tax, they are very clear fees that are intended. The ministry can always accept that this is all going to Plovdiv, which will then have to give up in order to ensure this activity again. I think rerouting activity is something that's completely, completely justified. And on the other hand, I'm still for regulation through the law, the issue of the transport of merchant ships in ports, see if we're going to have a port register, that we care about the safety of port navigation, but obviously we forget which time it is. We take money easily from taxpayers, so we don't care if we destroy the counterstructure of the port.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100796	I'm a colleague of Luke Denon's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100797	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy with his associates. I will focus on only one part of the law that and which is why if I am not mistaken and we are bringing it by emergency procedure, which is because we agree with EU regulations, so just because of me, I am the one who may have read this well, but I get it wrong or I have read it wrong, and I understand it well. I'm looking for an explanation. So, if I understand correctly, the compensation for the safety of navigation and protection against pollution paid only by foreign boats and yachts intended for entertainment and sport or recreation is lifted when they sail and reside in the inner sea waters, etc. So the fee was based on how it stands here for the safety of navigation and protection against sea pollution. How international agreements, as well as the conventions we have signed, but also Europe asks us to provide concrete public navigation security services as a counterproductive measure, this involves dedicated expenditures. So we had to be equal to the foreign boats that sail our Adriatic to make us kind of equal and good, I agree. And then we brought in article 13, we turned that fee into, if I read correctly, shipping security services. Is that right or am I wrong somewhere? I guess that's a unique fee now for all equals is. I wonder, here's what my colleague Linic said, if the shipping security and pollution protection fees were abolished, why didn't we put in that shipping safety and pollution protection service, so it would be part of the money I'm assuming that this fee was also issued for sudden sea pollution, so some revenue for sea pollution was somewhere if that fee existed before. Now it's gone, the pollution's gone, but that's why we have the arrangement and maintenance of the waterways, the installation and maintenance of the navigation security facilities. We give it all as a counterservice for compensation for foreign yachts and boats that sail our Adriatic. Implementation of hydrographic activity, etc. I think that with the radio service of coastal radio stations it would have been good if it had stood and polluted so that then this fee that it had, and I suppose part of that fee went for this sea pollution, so that it could stay and then that the income, part of the income, we would actually give for the sudden pollution of the sea that happens in the ports, but also in the waterways that are on the Adriatic. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: I may have been born at sea, that boat and yacht I'm not sure how to do that, so other than the boat. And then we found out in another article that, in Article 3, we said what a ship was. B5 I think so. A ship other than a warship is a water facility designed to sail the sea with a length of more than 12 metres, and a gross tonne is greater than 15 or authorised to carry more than 12 passengers. The ship can be passenger, freight, technical, water, fishing, public or scientific research. What it means now, or I'm misreading it, whether a boat that has over 12 meters is a ship or still a yacht or how it is. If it's a yacht then it's okay because we're witnessing to sail into our Adriatic and slightly larger ships of 12 meters but I don't know if they're classified as yachts. Who determines it, when it's determined, who pays the fee then. Here's why I don't get it, so I've been asking maybe one of you to explain to me that I'm right or wrong. But in any case, it would have been good if, as my colleague Linic says, we had this in two readings, and somewhere else we pointed out that part of that fee goes to and not only to provide the services of those that we have listed here, the navigation security services but also to the pollution part, the sudden pollution of the sea that is happening, and where we have as only two companies on the Adriatic, one in the north, one in the south, which are dealing with this business, and basically the money for that kind of thing in the budget is gone. And I think it would be good to extend that sentence somewhere and add sea pollution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100798	Finally, Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100799	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. First of all, I thank you for a very interesting, constructive debate. I believe that, in some future adjustments to this legislative regulation, some of these proposals will surely find their place and improve the overall overall activity of this whole maritime, sea and maritime economy in general. I would like a few sentences to be referred to the company Plovdiv, so because somehow from this debate it turns out that our company Plovdiv, which is responsible for maintaining and providing offshore navigation facilities, is going to be in difficulty because it reduces income for about the part that relates to, by means of Colloquial, the lighting for boats and yachts that are now subject to these amendments to the laws which were now the direct income of Plovdiv. Namely, what's this about? This is true, so it is true that in one part of the company Plovdiv remains without according to the current criteria of a certain portion of the original income. However, by joining the EU, we had to change the regulation in terms of the collection of lights. So, in terms of payment of shipping security fees, we can even Croatian citizens and EU citizens. Therefore, it must not be discredited in terms of the tariff of payment of those fees. Because so far, we've had about this practice. When a stranger with his yacht or boat checked in in the summer, in the summer period in the Port Captain, he would get an account for the so-called. Lightness and other charges and charges. And that light was based on some criteria, so the number times the length of the ship or the power of the engine, and there, so that amount of money would then be transferred, so the employees of the Port Captain would be transferred to one part of the Plovdiv. And a Croatian citizen who had the same boat or yacht would have paid for it at a significantly lower rate on registration on the occasion of his vessel's annual registration. So, it is unacceptable by entering the EU. So these amendments and additions to this code are regulated and harmonised and now they all pay in the same way. But they pay how? They pay in a way that it's not, so it's not about boats and yachts, it's no longer a service. It is treated as a compensation for the reason that VAT is not paid for the service, but it is the direct income of the state budget. If it were a service, i.e. if it were to be charged further as a commercial company, it would have to be a service and would be burdened with VAT, etc. etc. And then the amount, therefore, of invoices to foreigners burdened with VAT greatly complicates life and complicates the very collection technique and the flow of money, and I'm not talking about important other things, some other things. Why can't we return this service, this fee which is now a direct income fee, to the government budget's dedicated revenue directly to Plovdiv because it is under EU rules unauthorized support. The route is a commercial company and therefore most of the compensation that is now being collected will be recovered indirectly through maintenance, through funding, maintenance of navigation security facilities. That's the essence of the whole story. So, it simplifies things. The matter is somehow brought all into one flat, and in the last 5, 6 years, it has shown about the profit at the end of the year about how much the total income will now be reduced, so by returning this fee, that is, most of this fee through investments to express myself in navigation security facilities, in fact, it will indirectly also be income, the overall income or business situation. That's if I've been able to explain the essence of this whole story. In any case, she was neither in any way, nor anyone is thinking in such a way that the Plovdiv would go into privatisation, or that any procedure in that direction would be initiated. Because there's a Law on Plovdiv. He's a company of particular interest, so she serves maintenance of the sea's security facilities and every thought in that way is actually, thinking in that way is inadmissible to me and there's no way of doing it. Here I think other important things are presented in the very explanation. I thank everyone. And what I said at the beginning maybe in the future, by changing some provisions, you can definitely fix this text still. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100800	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100801	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, by this urgent procedure law, you've actually buried yourself in that you can't appreciate saying yourself the interesting data from the debate that our MPs found for you and the daggers and not the daggers offered you well knowing this matter, very well knowing. So, you've done an emergency procedure simply adjudicating all the good proposals from this debate. Obviously, that's what you announced, you yourself said there would be a new one, so a new amendment to this law. And so we keep making new changes and new additions, and these remarks that came from today and the proposals that came from the constituency benches will then be incorporated into some new announcements, amendments and additions of the law. But when you talk about Plovdiv, then we can hardly trust you, at least me and it seems to me that many citizens in Croatia too because we see how your boss's ministry works. We see this starting from the Concession for Zagreb Airport, Osijek Airport, Croatia Airlines that goes for sale, HZ CARGO which has been discussed for a year and a half, about the monetization of Croatian highways if we are going to get a concessionaire to reflect maritime lines and lighthouses and everything. So, to go and do it in a concession, so if everything goes then it can do it, and I don't see any good announcements about Plovdiv in that sense, and I'm afraid it'll end that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100802	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100803	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Antešić, or Mr. Vice-President, you claim that nothing will change, but the amount that was passed directly to Plovdiv paid by the owners of foreign ships and yachts now becomes the revenue of the state budget and as far as I understand the SDP's amendments through the annual plan and the programme accepted by the ministry will be forwarded to Plovdiv. On the other hand, we introduce compensation to all Croatian state owners of ships in the Republic of Croatia. So I fear, in fact, that the contribution of these amendments to the Maritime Code will be on the one hand the lack of funds to Plovdiv, and on the other hand the introduction of a new fee that so far has not been paid by boat owners and yachts in the Republic of Croatia is one thing. And the second thing, it has been announced that in the procedure of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, is it then that, according to this bill of law, the funds that have so far been the original income of the County, which is the compensation for the use of maritime goods from now on, will become the income of the state budget and believe it is not a small amount, I think for the Primorje-Goran County 6 million kuna, for Dubrovnik-Neretvanska 2 million kuna and depending on the number of ships that are registered in a certain port captainium in the Adriatic area, I think that the units of the regional self-government through the new law, i.e. the new Law on Maritime Goodness, are now raising huge resources and becoming the income of the state budget. If so, on the one hand we introduce a new imposition to shipowners, it is no longer the county's income and becomes the income of the state budget and at the same time the Plovdiv remains without income which were original and basic through the vignette, is not the basic but original income when buying the vignette that you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100804	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100805	Thank you very much. Well, I'd rather not have heard what Mr. Deputy Minister said. And I really recommend that you read a phonogram of what you said because you have literally said here that you want to play EU aid directives with this law and want to play the Value Added Tax Act in the Republic of Croatia. You can laugh all you want, gentlemen, but take a phonogram and then laugh at your nonsense, and don't laugh at me while I'm talking, you understand, while you're in the Parliament, you can laugh all you want, but you can laugh at the phonogram, not what I'm saying. I warn you well-intentionedly, you have publicly said here that you are rejecting the rules of the Republic of Croatia and of the EU directive, that is what you have said here in public. If you want to sail, sailway or whatever it is called, help him then give him public authority and let it be part of his income, but read to yourself, Mr. Deputy, what you said here in this high house. We did it so there wouldn't be a favor, there would be a fee so there wouldn't be VAT, we did it because it wasn't support because the support was illegal. That's what you said here. So Croatian laws are not in line with the EU's directive when entering the EU to behave in this way rather than to put the organisation institutions of the Republic of Croatia in line with this. And that those illegal use of support... Everyone who doesn't have the right to do that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I repeat, read to yourself what you said. You, as Deputy Minister, were never supposed to say anything like that anywhere, let alone in such a tall home. And I recommend that you read what you said well-intentionedly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100806	The answer to the replica Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100807	Thank you, Mr. Representative, for your very kind warning. I will be without worry to read very well what I said during the final speech and it certainly is not what you are, it is not what it is or is not how you vividly in your own own own own own own way, in the way you interpreted it, but it is, do not cast out my words or interpret them in a unique way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100808	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100809	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy, you have now spoken here in a final address about the care for the revenues of a state-owned company in Plovdiv and the way you see it. However, I will address this issue of income and care for state-owned enterprises to look at one topic because we are coming from the same island of Rab and you, and recently it has worked out let's say a new concessionary Valbiska Lopar and you have introduced a new boater Jadrolini, so she has expanded her activities, let's say in some way the possibility of making more money, but something unexpected has happened that nobody knew anything about and was not informed about. And that's that for islanders, the price has increased from 81 kuna to 131 for the entire 50 kuna. And now that line only drives air a day. Why? Because people just don't get paid to travel that line. This was clearly given by the Agency for coastal occasional transport from Split and by representatives of the ministry. So I'm interested in who thought of such an event, i.e. who remembered that it was very instructive to do and to whom it goes in favor, would it be better to drive 10 cars per 81 kuna or none, or one for 130 kuna? Well, it's clear to everyone and that's how you've made it impossible for the islanders to do a normal favor. So no one wants to drive on that line in a way if down on the second line is the price of 55 kuna and you can almost triple cross the land with a much lower price. What made you allow it if it was well designed, if a new ferry came along with good characteristics that could do so, so why drive empty? What kind of public business policy is this? Here's an answer for us islanders, for those of us who want to travel, but it's just too expensive. For the driver and car 131 kuna, if you still go 2, 3 inside that's 200 kuna, and so far it's 81 kuna, so it's a little too big, it's almost 70% of the price we've had so far. Such an increase has not yet been recorded in history.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100810	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100811	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the maritime code, emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z.E. No. 786. The debate on the text of the law is over. The government submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote on this proposal. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 78 for and 1 abstention and 30 against votes are accepted to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to amend the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Honored Deputy Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100812	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the final text of the law, nomotechnical errors were observed and these errors were corrected by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100813	Thank you very much. Deputy Minister. I'm opening a debate. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 77 votes in favour and 1 vote was abstentioned and 32 votes against the adopted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendments to the Legislative Committee. Please Deputy Minister, Honored Zdenko Antesic Amendment No. Article 1 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100814	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100815	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 2. in Article 51.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100816	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100817	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 3rd to Article 53.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100818	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100819	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 4th of Article 54th of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100820	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100821	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100822	The amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100823	Thank you very much. ... You get us out of here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. So, I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour, no abstentions and 34 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100824	And tonight we will discuss: - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, first reading, P.Z. No. 790 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture, you received reports at the session. The introduction will explain the proposal for a law by Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100825	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. The Agricultural Land Act applicable from 11 April 2013 is in force. The application of the law in practice has shown that there are certain obstacles that slow the process of making agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in front of us, the amendments and additions to this law which intend to be regulated are: the procedure has been awarded to the non-governmental construction land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which, under the applicable property, is the regulation of a 60-day period for granting consent to the State Office for the Management of State Property, and otherwise it is considered that consent has been granted, the regulation of cases in which the Ministry in the procedure for the adoption of spatial plans gives an opinion or consent to the holder that agricultural land owned by the State may be exceptionally planned for other economic functions which are not agricultural. The previous opinion on this is given to the Ministry by the Agricultural Land Agency. The regulation of the amount of compensation for the change in the purpose of agricultural land located outside the boundaries of the construction area and the spatial plan has changed its purpose and remains outside the building area's borders, depending on whether P1 or P2 farmland is personally worth processing or other agricultural land. Application of the exemption provisions for the change in the purpose of agricultural land and the legalisation of illegally built buildings in accordance with a specific regulation. Furthermore, it is proposed that the agency establish the right to build agricultural buildings and services on agricultural land owned by the state on a proposal from interested persons. In addition to issuing a public call for leases primarily for cadastral particles, which make up the production-technological totals of up to 100 hectares, it is proposed to call out when production-technological units constitute one cadastral particle whose area is larger than 100 hectares in order to avoid the obligation to land such cadastral particles. Furthermore, a public call may determine the type of use for which the agricultural land owned by the State is leased in view of the specific agri-climate potential of certain regions, multi-annual plantations in these areas or in agricultural production traditionally for certain areas in order to ensure the continuation of existing agricultural production on agricultural land. Furthermore, a public call for leases may be made for a cadastral road on which a country-owned agricultural building is built, or for that particle and adjacent cadastral particles, which make up a common production and technology unit. In order to facilitate the placing on the market of agricultural land, it is proposed that, in addition to the opening of a public call for leases and leases for ponds, when an interested natural or legal person delivers a request to the Agency for the opening of a public call for leases and leases for ponds, the Agency may decide to issue a public call if it itself has obtained the necessary documentation for the opening of tenders for the lease of agricultural land owned by the State. Amendments to the ingredients on the basis of which an economic programme for the use of agricultural land is proposed. the criteria for the achievement of the highest score in determining the right of the championship for persons participating in a public call for leases and leases for ponds are amended. Furthermore, this draft law proposes the suspension of the water compensation for fish farms owned by the State in order to further relieve economic operators of their business in view of the obligation to pay and to rent fish stocks. By removing that fee, the tenants will be able to reroute those funds to additional employment, investment in renovation, modernisation of ponds, investment in technology and the introduction of quality management techniques, which will ultimately result in an increase in fish production and exports. The possibility of transfer of the rights and obligations of the tenant under the lease and lease agreement to another person so that no contracts should be terminated for agricultural land and a new public call for the purpose of continuing agricultural production on that land shall be issued. Furthermore, the provisions of the agricultural land law in the possession of a state that is not in the function of agricultural production and which are grown by years of growth are amended, and the tenant is now obliged to unload the same land within a year instead of the two so far. His lease is now reduced in proportion to the costs of deforestation itself, but he no longer has the wood mass that remains after deforestation because it is proposed that Croatia's forests, according to special regulations on forests, take over from the tenants, transport it and dispose of it. The income obtained by selling wood is divided between the budget of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Forests because the income from the basis of the lease will be negligible or will not be due to... the rent with the cost of decommissioning the land for the tenant himself. Furthermore, this proposal for amending and supplementing the law complemented the provisions of the Law on the lease of common pastures owned by the State in such a way as to rent common pastures and cooperatives organised for the purpose of common pasture in the common pastures whose members are owners of livestock and which are registered in the register of agricultural holdings. The obligation of the tenant of the common pasture to enter into an Agreement on the use of common pasture which has been leased to them within 30 days of the date of the conclusion of the common pasture lease agreement in order to define the mutual rights and obligations of the tenant resulting from the common use of pasture shall be laid down. Amendments to the provisions of the law on the possibility of entering into a temporary contract are proposed in such a way that agricultural land owned by a country which is in a function of agricultural production and not owned by a natural or legal person, the Agency may conclude a temporary use contract with a natural or legal person on its request if it has paid all obligations on the basis of the use of land owned by the State in order to make such land available until a public call for lease is made. By amending the provisions on the replacement of agricultural land, agricultural land owned by a state outside the production and technology units may be replaced by agricultural land owned by natural and legal persons of approximately the same value and located in the area of the same or neighbouring unit of local self-government for more economical exploitation and creation of more favourable conditions for agricultural production. Furthermore, it is proposed to amend the provisions on the exceptional sale of agricultural land owned by a direct contract in such a way that the possibility of selling cadastral particles owned by a country bordering the land of the applicant can only be used once, and to delete the exceptional sale of agricultural land owned by a country for cadastral particles for which the documentation for the construction of agricultural facilities has been obtained. And when it comes to another economic function that is not agricultural, it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. However, the exceptional sale of agricultural land owned by the State by a direct contract is proposed in the event that the Republic of Croatia is co-owner with the applicant and the co-owner part of the Republic of Croatia is less than the co-owner of the applicant because there is a great interest in such sales and the property-legal relations of the co-owner so far are resolved. A new provision is also proposed under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia can make a decision on the sale of agricultural land owned by a country for cadastral particles located outside the production and technology units whose size in the continental region of the Republic of Croatia is not greater than 1 ha and in the Adriatic region of the Republic of Croatia up to 0,2 ha in order to achieve socio-economic and strategic objectives in agriculture and to implement the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia through a public call for sale. It is proposed that agricultural land owned by the State be given for use without a public call and when units of regional (regional) self-government, so far it has been only for the Republic of Croatia if it is the founder, but we are now giving units of regional (regional) self-government if they are founders of scientific and teaching institutions in the area of agriculture, penitentiary or institution that are in need of agricultural land in their activities. It is proposed to lease agricultural land owned by a state without a public invitation for a period of 10 years to legal and natural persons engaged in livestock, provided they do not have, and this law would give them the minimum area of agricultural land prescribed according to the number of conditional throats, with the compensation of the amount of double initial lease for the lease, and the award decision shall be taken by the agencies at their request. Furthermore, it is proposed to prescribe the decomposition of the co-ownership community on agricultural land on which the Republic of Croatia is one of the co-owners in view of the numerous requirements of natural and legal persons towards the Agency for the implementation of this breakdown. On the day of entry into force of this law, it is proposed that the programmes available to agricultural land owned by the State should cease to apply in view of the establishment of an information system in the agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia containing data on cadastral land particles owned by the state for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Accordingly, the Agency is authorised to find replacement agricultural land owned by the State in cases where, by virtue of the Law on the Compensation of Compensation of Receipts for Retracted Agricultural Land, it is not possible to return to ownership of agricultural land which has been taken from them on the basis of criteria to be signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special regulation. The proposed amendments and additions to the law would allow faster availability of agricultural land owned by the State in accordance with the provisions of this law and place it in the function of unused agricultural land in order for farmers to be able to exercise their rights and to pay out support under the new EU common agricultural policy system for the period of 15th, 20th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100826	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100827	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. You said 11.3.2013 the law was passed in this form, and now there are, you noticed that there are certain obstacles to its implementation. It took you a long time, it took you a long time, or so it took you so long until a few months ago a new agency director came along who realized what was going on and started working on it, and then you succeeded and you realized that there were certain obstacles and obstacles. Not that there are certain obstacles and obstacles, but you've done damage. You've done damage because you haven't done anything in three years. For three years, it's all been coming together since you stopped the availability of state agricultural land, and after that, all this time when there's been a stalemate at that location and your convictions that the State Agency will do it much better than local self-government falls into the water. It would be fair to admit a mistake, you've made a mistake, and you've done damage. Now he's trying to save something. Whether or not to be seen will succeed, but in any case some improvements here are present especially in that part of the score for the OPGs. But yes, well, I hope so. But what I'd say here is that by throwing out units of local self-government from that process in the way that it was before it actually made the biggest stalemate. The agency can't handle it, it can't just do it this way and it's not going to go any further well. I am convinced that this process will have to be changed again, that this law will have to be changed again and that it will have to go back to the part where the processes happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100828	Thank you. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100829	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I would really have one hundred replicas of this bill of yours and of yours. First of all, I'm really interested in whether you are, but already in the last year and a half, two, neatly when the laws on agriculture are on the program it's always in these late afternoons when basically no one else or the public is looking at it anymore. I wonder if you're really busy or if it's too early in the morning and why you let it happen? Or you really don't want the public to hear that on the 13th, I think, in the sixth 2012, you said that you would put into office this new Law on the lease of a minimum million hectares of farmland, new hectares would mean a minimum of 7 billion kuna in the state budget, and a year 50 thousand jobs. That's what you said when we warned you that it wasn't first, that it wasn't those acres, and secondly, that it was inaccessible in the way you predicted. Of course you don't have to answer me, because you know you've made a mistake now, as Mr. Hrg told you. And the ministry is really the response from the ministry of people waiting eight months, units of local self-government to rent some land. On the other hand, I have a second time, like pastures in the Lonj field. Now you're talking about pastures. When will that be settled? That's what I'm going to say in some other replicas, which is the problem. Well, it's about six and a half thousand horses, cows and cattle. But it's also more than 530 family farms The economy by 15.5 is a deadline, and the ministry is not responding. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100830	Thank you. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100831	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, we were saying that the law when you presented him wasn't good and was meant for big or big companies. It has been shown that the score as well as the agency's work has been highly questionable. It happened that in 2014 the Agricultural Land Agency published 124 publications, i.e. Public calls for 17096 ha. That's the data available. 598.53 ha was awarded, a total of 19 posts of only 3.5% of the scheduled... It's what's available on the agency's pages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means that there has been a real disaster in the Agency's work that neither nor nor what it is. And in this law it was to be found that the agency would be a second-degree body, which would open tenders, selected bidders per local units of self-government only verify, review and see if they worked in style and in the spirit of the law. This should have been recognised in this law in fact that local units were well formed enough, and the agency would have been a secondary body that would clearly verify or reject what was actually contrary to the law or what would have been past the law. This is how something really happened that will not contribute to the development of agriculture, which will not allow agricultural economies because the agency is really a appendix in which it happens in 2014 according to this information nothing good.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100832	Minister Tihomir Jakovina, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100833	I thank the esteemed vice president. The first is to read the law, and I had a psychological preparation not to react too much to replicating, because we sent the law because we found it, not that we were wrong or that we were doing bad things, but because we wanted to have faster and more transparent and more enforceable laws. Very short, two, three sentences. The Agricultural Land Agency was not founded on 23.12.2011 when I became a minister, but the same agency has not been working since 2009. Here I also heard a question about pasture communities and pastures. Since 2001, we have laws on the availability of agricultural land. Why, in the past ten years, a hectare of common pastures has not been put into operation. We have made this law clear and precise whether it is possible for agricultural producers to report and withdraw incentives for these areas, based on the agreement on the rights and obligations of pasture users over the next 7 years. 117 thousand hectares under the old lease law were in some under the age of 11 years. Look at the numbers we've done so far and we're going to underline in some way... or sum up what we're going to do at the end of the term, so we're going to see how different these numbers are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your quote is bad. We talked about land in total, and one of the things that was defeated for the Republic of Croatia was that until two, three months ago we didn't even know until we established a new information system or how much state land we had in the Republic of Croatia. 738125 ha exactly by county, by purpose and by each unit of local self-government. Now we know how much agricultural land we have. We had fifty units of local self-government that didn't even make available programs according to the law that We've been working maximum and the agency's been working in continuity since the first day I became a minister. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100834	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Chairman of the Agriculture Committee Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100835	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Report on the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Land Act of the Committee on Agriculture. At the 51st session held on 4 February 2015, the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 29 January 2015. The debate on that draft law was carried out by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. Representatives of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, Croatian Chamber of crafts and representatives of local, regional, regional self-government participated in the debate. In its opening statement, the Deputy Minister of Agriculture said that the application of the current Agricultural Land Act has shown that there are obstacles that slow down the agricultural land distribution process owned by the Republic of Croatia, and that the proposed amendments and additions are regulated by the issue of which the settlement would speed up the procedures for the availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. The committee discussed the following comments and proposals. As the whole text of the bill expresses the amount of compensation for water and fees for the use of the pond is deleted and the applicant explains the need for a reduction in the cost of the work of the ponds in the debate, the view that other agricultural producers have been brought into an unequal position by this provision. In addition, Article 9 of the Law, which adds paragraph 5 to Article 27, provides that an exceptionally public call for lease may determine the type of agricultural production for which the agricultural land owned by the State is leased in view of the specific agri-climate potential of a given region. As regards that proposal and taking into account the absence of a map of ionisation of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, it is unclear on the basis of which criteria would be determined by the type of agricultural production. As regards Article 12 of the proposal for a law amending Article 30 The Law on Agricultural Land which determines the right of the Championship to call for leases is expressed by different views on the need to change the score in the exercise of the right of the Championship on the lease call. Participants warned that the proposed score model is placed in an unfavourable position, small agricultural producers, young agricultural producers and persons starting with agricultural production. Although, according to the proposal for a bill, the OPG holder, who is under 40 years old, is also introduced into the score-point, if it is in peaceful possession and the criteria of the domicillivity of the debate, it is pointed out that the number of points that can be achieved for the economic programme needs to be reduced and, accordingly, to increase the number of points for other components from a total of 100 points. Increase the number of points for domicility and under 40 years. The debate states that it is necessary to stop the depopulation of the village, and that just by increasing the number of points for domicility and the holders of the OPG, which have created assumptions for the retention of young people in rural areas, it is necessary to stop the depopulation of the village. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Agricultural Land Act adds paragraph 9 that the estimated economic programme for the bidders taking into account all the resources of the related companies located in the area of the unit of the regional self-government where a public call for leases and leases for fishermen, i.e. neighbouring units of the regional self-government is made. The debate expressed its view that the same benefit should also be provided for the OPGs and the agricultural trades. The view is expressed that, when harmonising the provisions on the pattern and method of evaluation of the economic programme for the use of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia, it is to be harmonised in accordance with the transitional and final provisions of the draft law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia within 90 days. It is necessary to provide for a component of the common use of agricultural machinery, so we are talking about joining in machine rings. As regards Article 20 of the Law amending Article 43 The law on agricultural land is laid down that the wood mass after the deforestation of agricultural land from the tenant takes over the transporter and is available to the company of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. The debate expressed concern that this provision of the law will be difficult to implement in practice and that the availability of wood must be regulated in another way. The same Article provides for a lease obligation relating to the decommissioning of agricultural land, which is prescribed that, within one year from the date of the introduction into possession, the tenant must end with the reduction of agricultural land. It is proposed to extend this period of two years or to determine the obligation to initiate the contraction within one year. The same article should provide that the lease provided for for for the entire duration of the contract is reduced for the cost of decommissioning. The proposed Article 24(2) provides for the exemption from payment of a one-time fee for changing the purpose of agricultural land in the law of illegally built buildings in accordance with a specific regulation. The debate also stated that it is necessary to determine which type of illegally built buildings are involved, and in order to prevent the abuse of the provisions of that article. Article 27 of the proposal for a law supplementing Article 51(3) provides for the provision of leases in agricultural land owned by a State without a public call for a period of ten years for persons engaged in livestock farming and provided they do not have and this lease would result in a minimum area of agricultural land prescribed according to the number of conditional throats. The debate highlights the need to help persons who are engaged in livestock farming, but also the fear of abuse of that provision, and the necessity of precise determination of the criteria for the exercise of the right of lease without public call, with a number of conditional throats and a criterion of domicileness of small and young agricultural producers. Article 37 of the Law provides that the lease and lease procedures for ponds for which public calls, leases and leases for ponds are to be completed in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Agriculture, the National Journal of 39/2013. The debate noted that taking into account the reasons for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Agricultural Land, as well as the need to protect the domicile agricultural population and preserve rural areas, it would be necessary to begin the proceedings under the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law on agricultural land is hereby adopted. 2. The comments and proposals tabled in the debate shall be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final proposal for a agricultural land law."
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100836	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100837	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. By listening to your presentation, I was really not impressed at all because in your presentation in the amendments and additions to this law, which is very important, I didn't hear anything that mattered in order to change the current law that you passed in 2013. But I particularly resent you, but I also resent the President of the Croatian Parliament for putting these essential laws on the sustainability of agriculture in Croatia in the deaf times of the Parliament when there is no direct transfer, when people who deal with agriculture cannot participate in watching television and be familiar with all the problems of agriculture in Croatia. I really don't know why you're doing this, but I'm sure you're doing it for reasons you're afraid to tell the public in front of TV cameras what you're preparing and how you're going to fix a new law. In the year 53/2008 we had the Agriculture Act, which was for the benefit of very small OPGs, small agricultural economies that could develop and that had the opportunity to reach agricultural land. By coming to the power of your Government of the SDP you changed the law in 2013 in which you did not simply here for three years, as my colleague Hrg said nothing was doing and where simply in this law there is so much inadequacy that just today, when we are going to change and supplement this law of 85 articles, we are changing 42. Well, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would have joined sooner if I were you in the Ministry of Agriculture and wrote a new law, not making changes and additions, than 85 articles, you change 42. And I also have to tell you that the remaining 43 articles have a very good reason to change because there will be so much shortages that this law in which you will make changes and supplements will simply not be enforceable because it is seen from your speech that when and when we adopt this law in the second reading, I do not see your intention to change this point that is now totally unfair to small farms and that simply disappears from day to day. I'll just tell you that your government programme strategy for 2014 predicted that, through the efficient availability of agricultural land, it would ensure an increase in the area of state agricultural land, which is leased in 2014. Your starting value was 250 000 hectares, and for 2014 the target value of the land to be leased was 400 000 hectares and in 2015 480 000 hectares. The government programme strategy for 2015 starts from the same starting position as in 2014, so with 250 000 hectares and with a target value in 2015 of 350 000 hectares. So 130,000 hectares less than planned in the government's 2014 strategy. We're talking thousands of acres here. We also remember the Minister's promise to adopt the Agricultural Land Act in 2013. According to the law, the minister was to place 500 000 hectares of state agricultural land in the post of agricultural production. The quality of the then praised law is sufficiently stated by the fact that 65 contracts for the long lease of state agricultural land for an area of 1142 hectares were concluded during 2014. It would be 5.4 long-term lease contracts a month. Dear colleagues and colleagues, 5.4 contracts a month from this number of announced quantities and contract signings. The total area covered by 124 public calls for long-term lease in 2014 was 17100 ha, and long-term lease contracts were signed for an area of 1142 ha, which would be 6.7% of the land offered in a public call. If we add to the contracts concluded in 2014 contracts from 2013 covering the 350 ha area, we reach 1500 ha. These 1500 ha represent one percent of the agricultural land provided for in the Government Programmes Strategy for 2014 under measure 8.1. An effective system of agricultural land management and financing of the agricultural and fisheries sectors, hence, 150000 ha planned contracts for use of neither less than 1500 ha were concluded. Is this not an indication of the problem at hand with state agricultural land, whether it is time to develop a completely new concept of availability to state agricultural land, which, unlike the existing law, would ensure decentralisation of governance rather than even greater centralised as these changes are foreseen. The draft law provides, inter alia, for the possibility of determining the type of agricultural production for which agricultural land is leased. Based on what cards? If we have a map of ryonization, a map of potential for agricultural production that will allow for the determination of the type of agricultural production. The participant of the lease and lease call for ponds may not be an OPG or a person who is in unauthorized possession of agricultural land. This will be the most felt by cattlemen who wanted to admit it to me or did not feel guilty that there was never an invitation to tender for the land they used in their municipalities and cities, and they could not get a certificate of processing. Paragraph 9 of Article 11 provides that all the resources and related companies located in the area of the unit of local, regional self-government and neighbouring units of local and regional self-government are to be taken into account through the evaluations of the economic programme for bidders that the company has taken into account. This provision places the OPG and agricultural trades in an unequal position, so we believe that it is necessary to delete it. The real source of the problem of availability to state agricultural land lies in the proposed Article 12, which determines the right of the championship to call for rent, the evaluation of the economic programme goes to the detriment of small, young and agricultural producers who are just beginning to deal with agricultural production. The analysis of the decisions on the signed long-term lease of state agricultural land published on the website of the Agricultural Land Agency has led to data that during 2014 long-term lease contracts were signed by 14 companies in the total area of 546 ha, 19 OPGs in the total area of 170 ha and 4 agricultural crafts in the total area of 73 ha. A total of 789 ha. 70% of agricultural areas were leased to companies in 2014. 21% are renting family farms and 9% are renting agricultural crafts. Is there anything else to add to this? Not except for the fact that this law forgets that the largest part of our homeland is the rural space in which real people whose agricultural land is a basic existence live. I will repeat how we support the principles of the market economy, but you have forgotten how the existence of each of these family economies creates added value for rural areas where these economies live and work at a time when the inability to use state agricultural land ceases with agricultural production will become a number at the Employment Office or leave the country in search of work. Is our goal being to devastate the villages? If the direction of this government is only a big help, say it openly to small farmers. The solution to this problem is seen in the reduction of points that I have already talked about that can be achieved on the basis of an economic programme at 40 points or 1/3 of the total possible points, and by increasing the number of points for the host population, young and small agricultural producers. Another way to address this problem is to apply the provisions laid down in the law that preceded this law, which allowed equal competitions for large economic operators to compete, reducing the time limits foreseen for land depletion is not good because the measure still goes to the harm of the family economy which, unlike large economic operators, does not have the financial power to end the reduction within one year. We propose to leave the deadline of two years under the law, subject to the obligation to initiate the decommissioning procedure within one year. It is also necessary to foresee the possibility that some types of agricultural production do not require deforestation, and it is not necessary for us in Slavonia to have thoughts, and some people are involved in the cultivation of black Slavonian pigs. It is therefore possible to leave land in such a state as it is for such production. Taking into account also the fact that units of local self-government in the event of decommissioning of land will be left without funds that would result from leases, it is necessary to provide for a way to compensate local self-government units. It is also necessary to conclude the lease and lease procedure for ponds for which a public invitation has been issued and in which the Agency has not made a decision, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. The adoption of this law puts aside programmes for agricultural land owned by the state which have brought units of local self-government. What will this ultimately mean in practice, on what basis will the Agricultural Land Agency have for agricultural land? Isn't this a complete exclusion of local self-government units from availability and further centralization of the entire process? The reason that a local self-government unit is not sufficiently capacitated to make agricultural land available is very easy to resolve in practice. If the agency has knowledge that the local self-government unit is unable to do these jobs, then these jobs can take over. The final applicable law has 85 articles and I said the amendments themselves to Article 42. The law is not good at recognising it, and the proposer himself, saying that the application of the law has shown that there are obstacles that slow down the land supply process. We believe that it is necessary to approach the new law, a law that will provide a real basis for the availability of state agricultural land because it is obvious that the law on whose amendments and additions we are discussing today is not good at several segments and will do the most damage to the OPGs. And once again, this law, if it remains in this framework, if it does not change in the score, this law will destroy and end the little agriculture left in Croatia, and this law is against the municipalities, cities, counties of those people who deal with agricultural production, and in this way we will come to the conclusion that a small economy, the OPGs and what little agriculture that is left simply in the Republic of Croatia will disappear, we will have an even greater poverty, we will have an even greater number of people in the employment office, but we will have even more young people who will go far more far to other European countries and we simply wonder why we are doing it, from which interest we are doing, and whether this law is written only for some, or for the most of whom it is beneficial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100838	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honorary Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Lucic, at the very beginning, you said that you couldn't be surprised that this law in the 85th article actually changed into the 42nd article. And you realized it would be better if a new law had been passed and I couldn't agree more. However, this law has experienced its own debacle and it is inconsistencies, the media was censored and bidders who deal with livestock production and have, say, 0 hectares are making calls that we were also witnessing in our municipality, and we also sent a letter to the ministry and expressed our suspicion. If that were the case, I will tell you that in Split-Dalmatia County there were three public calls for 147 hectares, and 41 hectares of temporary use were completed, 41.7 hectares. It's even less so in Sibenik-Kninska or Zadar County. And finally, precisely because of this rural space you talked about in Croatia the law should actually be a magnet for staying young people in rural areas and improving a demographic picture of those parts, however it is not. That the bad actually speaks both the facts and the farmers themselves who made their remarks on this law during the 11th and 12 days that he was in the public debate, but the ministry didn't actually adopt anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100840	Reply to the replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100841	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague agrees with you, and that's exactly what I've been talking about. This law is not written for small agricultural economies, this law is subject to large systems and I do not know why it has changed since 2008 when this law was indeed at the benefit of the CAP, a small farmer. In the 2013 law that this government changed, it simply made it impossible for any small agricultural holding to buy any piece of land, especially those large parcels, 10, 20, 30, 50 hectares, if we have just witnessed in their own units of local self-government, I come from Požega-Slavon County to have several competitions that have been called where previous farmers are engaged in vegetables, so they are dealing with one culture that is very interesting cannot come into possession of land because this competition was reported by the company from the neighbouring county, therefore not from the same county, a large company that is simply advantageous because they have an economic programme, they have said in a law that most tractors. Imagine who was so wise and wrote the law without also consulting those people who were at the source of the information. And just as the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I call for a broad debate on exactly the sessions that are very important for agriculture, that people come from the very source of information that deals with agriculture daily, to make their proposals that are precisely in the amendments and additions of the law respect their thinking. But those thoughts simply are not accepted. And what is important is that associations that are very important to us on the very market of counties, cities, municipalities simply their proposals are not accepted, and people live daily with problems. Does anyone better at the ministry know how to write a law without respecting these people who come from a source of information? I'm not sure about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100842	Thank you. Replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100843	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lucic, I agree with your debate and with all the questions you asked in your debate. Just like I told the Minister there's a hundred replicas safe under this law. Here's why this afternoon. You see, counterpart Lucic, Croatian cattlemen are looking for more than 90,000 hectares of land. They would like to be able to buy that country, unfortunately it is disabled because it is not considered that while the government is monitoring this time of purchase means to foreigners of the Croatian country when it passes, we will allow foreigners. We didn't allow our locals to buy the same land. And why this afternoon? Perhaps the best example, an example from Solta, where one company from Solta, which gave a banking guarantee of 2 million and 512 thousand and something else, is that for agricultural production purposes 59,600 hectares of the country, the company is a registered company for concrete and the production of concrete, but this country is given to it for agricultural production purposes, and in 2013, it was absolutely not registered to receive, so in this direct payment was not registered as a agricultural producer. Well, here's all the grief, misery and misery of this ministry and the attitude towards the Croatian peasant, the one who works and wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100844	Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100845	Thank you very much. Yes, I agree, my colleague, there would be a lot of debate here and there would be a lot of work if we were to engage in that analysis. Conscious of the facts, and Minister Jakovina doesn't want to say it, but here's the information from the Evening List when you said no less or less, a million acres of unprocessed land we'll put into operation. Well, Mr. Minister, if you've listened very carefully to me, you've made use of agricultural land like I said for 2014, you've had 5.4 contracts on rent a month. You're also like I said 6.7% of the land offered in a public call you put into operation. So where are those millions of acres, where are those programs you said you'd accomplish in agriculture. And that's why, dear colleague, I'm not surprised at what you've been saying, because everything said in agriculture, in the ministry, in this House is worrying. That's why our village is in such a difficult position, so the village will be extinct, and we, along with this government, are pushing for large agricultural producers who already have several thousand hectares and you're allowing them to increase their quantities by new law, and that little man you're going to take to a black country. You are precisely your programme of agriculture and the arrival of the SDP government as you took over this Government of the Republic of Croatia destroyed the economy in the country, and this will end it and you will put that last nail in the case of agriculture if you do not change this law immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100846	Here's fellow twilight you've heard why you're all responsible. ... Next replica, Damir Roman. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100847	Dear fellow Lucic, therefore, in your debate you first referred that the problem with the minister is that this law goes in the afternoon, that is, in the evening term and that people who are engaged in agricultural production cannot watch this debate. So the real farmers, the real farmers are in the morning in their stables, in their fields, and they can actually watch the real debate right now. On the other hand, in your discussion you read absolutely the whole text that exists on the Parliament's website, the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture, and I don't know whether you accidentally or intentionally made one I would say a mistake or a lapus, which is that you did not say that the bill was unanimously adopted by the Committee on Agriculture. I don't know if it's intentional or accidental, but for objective information to the public, that's what we need to say here. You also mentioned how the minister is doing a bad job, how the agency is doing a bad job, and how 5.4 contracts were made in the past year 2014. Look at the miracles, and you didn't mention there wasn't a book of closed contracts. Right from the moment the agency worked, so by not coming to this government at the head of this country, not by the arrival of Tihomir Jakovina at the head of the ministry but much earlier. And for your reminder, the SDP has been managing the Ministry of Agriculture since the beginning of 2012. For all the problems in agriculture that exist, and especially the problems of agricultural land, the HDZ alone is guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100848	Replication response, Franjo Lucic. ... I'm sorry, I said that the reply to the replica is Franjo Lucic, not Ivan Shuker. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100849	Mr. Roman, the other day I told you the same thing on the board, don't give me advice, I know what I'm doing and I know what I'm saying. And if you had listened carefully and listened to me, I said in my statement that we had just adopted unanimously, but under point 2 of the Notices and suggestions to be presented in the debate, they refer to the applicant to prepare a final proposal for a law on agricultural land. So we agree, but the facts we discussed need to be classified, and you didn't do it entirely. That's what I'm talking about. And when people watch, you know what, this farmer who's very interested in this law is going to leave his job or be replaced by that other employee he has in his family economy and will follow up on a televised debate. And you don't know that there's no direct transmission now, and that maxtv doesn't exactly have every household, especially that domestic peasant. The question is whether or not they have television, and you'd like them to follow over to Maxtv to follow the debate in the Parliament. And you deliberately put that on you and your government of SDPs just to get as far away from the public as possible from hearing any catastrophic moves to the detriment of agriculture and every small agricultural producer. Yes, fellow Roman. That's what you systematically do here in Parliament and we're witnessing several key laws that you're just putting at 9:00 a.m. on a dinner date, up to 10, 11 or I don't know how long the debate is going to take place. It's really sad that you're hiding this very law that simply brings your government and the Ministry of Agriculture to the expense of the little man and you're going to completely destroy by this law and live and see. It's only when people fail that they're no longer helped.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100850	Not all points of the agenda can come before noon for debate, because it is simply inexecutable. New replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. 42 articles, so these are these tiny obstacles that exist, certain obstacles that exist. It obviously took a long time to see half the law that there are obstacles to law enforcement, so it's no wonder he's only now coming to change. Comrade Lucic, you are the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. I'm a little confused right now because as an agent, I was sitting on the Committee on Agriculture. And I realized there was going to be a change in the score, that it would go towards the OPGs, according to domicileness, and that this injustice that happened in the first law enforcement would be corrected. Because definitely when I think about it, I even think it's a good thing that the law didn't go through, because if it had been implemented, we'd have a lot more cases of Lipovljani, now Sisak, I don't know the Neretva valleys or anyone where not all where people didn't get in their backyards one centimeter square agricultural land where for five points, the company took the land under their noses and where people would probably have to move after that, so teaching at that debate today during the day when we talked about housing policy, there's even more of those empty houses and even fewer people in the rural areas. But now, our minister has been preparing himself all day to be able to stand still and stand by and keep our debate silent, so we will now do well here in the evening and resolve this debate, and unfortunately the law will remain as it is, suggested, which will be to the detriment of agricultural producers especially of the OPG.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100852	Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100853	Yes, colleague Hrv, you may have misunderstood. So 85 articles in the law, 42 change. There's no question about the score. After the second reading and adoption of this law within 60 days, the minister has the possibility and the right to change the score. Are we going to discuss this and open a public debate, Mr. Minister? Ask that, Mr. Horg of Ministers, when you're in a position to change 42 articles, not to change the score, so you don't have to, what are we even discussing about this law? We don't even have to argue, because we didn't get anything. He'll stay in the same position he was. The biggest problem and the bigger problem is the score of this 42 article. But maybe the ministry wants to blur our eyes and tell us, so look, we've accepted 42 articles, we've changed, we've changed the law, and they haven't done anything in the score. It's the key to everything. The stabbing has to change and there can't be 60 points for an economic programme to tell what the economic programme is? That the company has a larger number of tractors, that it has more warehouses, that it has better equipment or training of employees who have a college of one, two or three or I don't know, and that's what the law says. And what I'm saying and I keep saying. So why is the ministry ashamed to accept people who live with agriculture, those associations that deal with problems on a daily basis, who live with these problems. So if we're interested in saving a small farm, then we respect these people, we accept them, we talk to them, and we respect their daily problem. And that's how laws should be written, not uniformly passed to me by law, and you should be asked what. You don't respect anyone and that's the biggest problem with lawmaking in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100854	A new replica of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100855	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lucić, in his opening part, you mentioned an unfair score against small agricultural producers. Here on the Committee on Agriculture the most is the word either on the way the score is, the economic programme. So that's article 12 of the amendment. My colleague Hrg, I absolutely agree with you, although I am replicating my colleague Lucic that he is well, and that is ultimately the legislator of the law in paragraph 3 of the opening section and said that they have a weak practice, i.e. there are obstacles that slow down the process of availability. Because if it wasn't for the slowdown, that land that would get the big players would be anywhere and where else. Here, colleague Lucic from this data for the 2014 trading companies 70, OPG 21, turn 9 is clear. So what's the future of the small OPG when it comes to the agriculture ministry's policy. We currently have about 200 empty villages in the Republic of Croatia. The result is the country's food addiction. See statistics on imports into the Republic of Croatia for 2013, as well as 2014 I repeat, we're becoming a food-dependent country, and with this policy and the game of big players, we're going to be even more dependent on imports, that's definitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100856	Reply to the replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100857	I agree with my colleague, and I was just saying that the biggest problem is the score. You see in this law, so the amendment and supplementation proposal was once again said by a small entrepreneur, that is, a man who wants to deal with agriculture must have a tractor mechanism at the beginning, so all the equipment, and you, Mr. Minister, and this government said that the previous government had burdened the agricultural producers...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100858	Please respond to the replica given to you, not to the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100859	I speak to a minister and a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100860	Stick to the Rules of Procedure. Well, it's not hard to understand the Rules of Procedure. Come on, keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100861	The former government colleague of the Box just spoke... Please, it's the culture of the Vice President of the Parliament, so he has as many cultures as we can under the fingernail of a statue, so what are you surprised at? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, the former government had just said that agricultural producers were forced to buy machines and were brought to ruin with loans because they were taking machines they didn't need. Today's law we're proposing says explicits must have machines to start their own agricultural production. Why does he have to? So put them together, and especially if they do fruit growing, put them in machine fingers. Why don't the three of you have the machines that you're going to use together, and not make him buy machines at the start, and he's going to have to think about it if he doesn't happen to pay off these machines and how it's just going to work. That's exactly what this law is proposing, and at the same time, it's said differently at different instances. So don't we see what problems we've had so far to change them? We don't see who or how it's supposed to be. And I said this law is a favor to some of whom are benefiting, and now we just need to see who's benefiting.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100862	New replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100863	Dear fellow Lucic, listening to you but also all these replicas, I feel like we came back just this time two years ago in 2013 when this law was being discussed. The same way you and everyone in the replicas are saying today, the HDSSB colleagues said, "IDS colleagues," and what happened now? It has happened that this same law is changing again in the wrong way, again, intensifying the kind of debate that you and all of us have had here together. One key sentence stuck to my ear that you said, this law is against municipalities and cities. When we look at what we heard tonight, what we have in our proposal to amend and supplement the law and what happened a few months ago, we remember the Law on the abolition of the status of the mountain-mounted area and the bile debate on the subject. Whether all of these government moves, all of the changes to the legislation want to destroy the village, want to destroy rural areas and wants to promote what is already happening rapidly, the villages are moving, leaving us the Gorski kotar, let's just look at the population list comparison between 2001 and 2011. So instead of preserving these small family economies, instead of motivating family economies, that this is exactly how you said "joint" and get a land where you can make incomes is happening exactly the opposite. But the model, the way the law was passed in this assembly on Friday, we had a caucus where the Law on Elections was passed in a way that neither the Proposer nor the ones who voted for it, I think in the end they don't know what they voted for. With this we will receive nothing but the oppression of our village and those powers that many have spoken of will continue to import into supermarkets food from other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100864	Time. The replica matches Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100865	I agree with my colleague Klaric that if this law remains the way it is so far, it was simply a waste of every household, and not that it would not be able to survive this household that is now in office without saying that it would never be able to begin its activity by someone who wanted to deal with agriculture, so that if the law was initially intended to only suit large systems. Whether through large systems we will be able to save our agricultural production in Croatia and rise to the level we swore to a few years ago. So we see that agricultural land, we see that every year we import more and more goods from other countries, it's strange that we import 850,000 dollars of garlic into the Republic of Croatia or not to mention other foods, and at the same time nothing is worth anything and we can't grow anything. Well, we can't because exactly the Republic of Croatia and this current government are working against that particular man who deals with agriculture. So a colleague of the SDP government's arrival 3 years ago, a billion and a half kuna from the state budget was reduced by agriculture. So what country do you think could survive agriculture to get that much money? I'm not going to mention aflatoxin where we didn't accidentally, but we deliberately destroyed the dairy industry to please the foreign chains that import milk and where they simply want to neutralize domestic production. That would give you a lot to talk about. But once again, I have a feeling that this law has someone useful, uses so much that it simply doesn't want to see with its own eyes how and how to change this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100866	New replica, Tomislav Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100867	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with Associates Dear fellow Lucic, so when it comes to such an important law, an important topic, and in these late hours, it is good to talk about facts. You said people who live with agriculture, but you didn't say those people needed to live on agriculture. Well, one word that when we talk about this life has to be mentioned, that's competitiveness. When you talk about helping the big one, let's go back to history, since '91. the year after the Homeland War and the conversion is actually turning social agricultural land into state agricultural land and in 2001, it is well established here, units of local self-government take over this very complex process of making available and available procedures. And at that point, indeed, there are many farmers, and returning to conversions and peaks, many farmers were able to participate in agricultural land, so they took their share. And since 2008, there have been frequent amendments to the law, especially in part of the criteria of choice. In 2009, I think the minister said it was the correct data, the agency was established, and the agency was founded for co-operation, not to oppose local self-government units, so co-operation, to be active partners. And the moment the agency takes over the commission, the local self-government unit continues to participate in administrative affairs, it has the potential to influence the choice through its representatives. As for the score, the public debate was held, many took part in the public debate and some remarks were seen there and included. In particular, 10 points for the host population and 10 points for under 40 years should be welcomed. Those provisions are actually the same, 20 points. But when we talk about the economic programme, I don't understand why you're acting so negatively. Well, the economic program is also the basis when you talk and why someone would buy their machines if in the economic programme they predicted it, if they were to lead the cooperative, the association, if all this were to be done nicely, then they would be competitive and they wouldn't have to have these inconveniences that you mention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100868	Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100869	So, Comrade Sagar, I am only sorry that you are coming from Slavonia to our suffering in which you look at it all together and see, and you blindly follow your policy that implements this law, and to the harm of those of you in Chachinci and all those surrounding places. Why don't you do that, so influence your people in the party to change something that's not good. Don't play politics blindly. You're in politics today, you're gone tomorrow, but that man has to survive, he has to live in that village, and that fight is very important. This point is very important. Why the economic program, so because the economic program at the start gave 60 points I said about what, for those big systems that have 100 times as much as the small one and don't make him buy machines but get him into the machine ring, that three, five of them get together. If they have orchards that with one tractor, for an orchard you need a tractor, a sprinkler and a tara, nothing else. And let them do it all with that one tractor, but give him points, don't take away the points. And you take away his points at the start, he can't win any points. There's the problem. And don't close your eyes to something that really means the survival of life, so I guess we in Slavonia know best. Well, Slavonia's been destroyed. What's a Slavonia? People from Dalmatia used to come to Slavonia, and today we go to Dalmatia, we send our children to work in Dalmatia because they can't survive. He can't get to the land, he can't even rent it, he can't buy it, he can't buy it, he can't get anything. Because this particular law from 2013 that you brought makes it impossible. The law, while the HDZ government was in 2008, had just given priority to a small OPG and a man dealing with agriculture and it was a guarantee of its survival.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100870	Next line, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100871	Thank you very much finally. Comrade Lucić, you mentioned this law in which of the 85 articles were amended 42. Well, nothing's unusual. How much has been changed in the Rural Development Programme which has gone to Europe and has gone back with even greater remarks and comments. Those were books. Therefore, nothing unusual for the Ministry of Agriculture. But what I wanted was to point out especially when you were talking about food imports, and we could feed say before that state of Vojvodina and Slavonia could feed half of Europe, but today it is completely and completely different. So we import, you're talking about amounts, I'm going to talk about countries from which garlic is imported, it's Egypt and China, pods from Morocco. We know the climate conditions in Morocco and that the Sahara and Sub-Saharan part is 90% Morocco, but here we are from Morocco importing pods, frozen ones. But it seems to me that here in action is actually that old ideological fear of cults and it haunts someone over and over and over again and doesn't just allow OPGs, our people, our peasants, not allowed, a rich peasant and thus not a rich village or a rich Slavonia. It's not allowed, they just don't want it. This destroys one part of Croatia, the doctor's departure destroys the other part of Croatia, the departure of young people from Croatia destroys the third part of Croatia and destroys Croatia in total. In fact, the depopulation, demographic disaster and destruction of Croatia are in effect. It's in action and it's being carried out. They're waiting for strangers to buy land, to pass the moratorium, so we're always hanging out with laws, with amendments, and I don't know what, and there's no real law to help the little peasant. Waiting for the moratorium to pass and then the foreigners to take the country, that's all there is to it and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100872	Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100873	I agree with my colleague Grubisic that the depopulation of the village is not in sight but has been spent for several years by the arrival of this SDP government, because I have said a billion and a half times before the funds have been denied. Well, maybe some things weren't done right, they should have been changed. But was it exactly how much we were supposed to destitute that village, that agricultural producer? Do we need to import this much food today that you spoke of with the graces of Slavonia and Baranja that can not feed Croatia, but also export? As chairman of the Committee on Agriculture in conversation with colleagues from other countries, they simply wonder that the Republic of Croatia has no sense for a small man, no sense of incentivising small production, to encourage production to feed its people, but to feed its people with pods, with peas from Morocco, from China, and we benefit from the continent, from the sea. So we're people who don't know how to work, we don't know how to run a country, but we don't know God. We don't even know how to run a ministry. Because Minister, you can look at me as much as you want, but this law if it doesn't change, if you don't change this point, you're a responsible man as a Slavonite, as a Croat who will destroy a village of colleagues, and that same minister comes from your ship, comes from our Slavonia. Well, I'm even more affected by that. I am struck by the man who comes from Slavonia destroying the Croatian village and wonder why? Which interests are more valuable than that man and his existence on his hearth, lest they go away, to keep them from being displaced. With these 200 villages we have, we will have another 200 and then we will import food that will come to us from God and ask from there.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100874	Last line, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100875	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Lucic, you've noticed how many articles are changing. I would say that these 42 articles, which were drawn up on the 56 pages of this bill, have 80 objections in the public debate as can be seen. 80 remarks by people who have seen from practice what is wrong. They saw the Chamber of Commerce, saw the Chamber of Commerce, saw the OPGs, saw groups of citizens who clearly saw from practice what significantly disrupts the ability to acquire land and rent, and experts, and even stakeholders, as well as cooperatives, put their observations on. Of the 80 observations made on page 56, 70, the explicit remarks were rejected by just the ones that would improve the law. 6 were accepted by those who do not matter and cannot influence with... points cannot change this 60-40 ratio that is in the economic programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 4 have been partially accepted. All of these irrelevant, meaning out of 70 that were rejected 6 accepted, 4 partially. This is all irrelevant and cannot affect the improvement of the law as well as what is happening, and that in 2014 was a disaster in the work of the agency. Why? I'm going to say that since 598.53 ha, all the land was agreed in that year, the OPGs agreed 175.18 ha. The rest are all stock companies or craftsmen who got these land precisely because it is a characteristic of the law 60 points for an economic programme that has more machinery, which has a better reference, who has made better income you are... [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100876	The replica matches Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100877	I agree with my colleague right now in my presentation, I was talking about it. Change the law or amendments and additions that go to amend 42 articles, and then it was better to write a new law. A new law just to do what's necessary. That's the problem with the Department of Agriculture not experiencing what you're talking about. That association, those people they're gathering, a few agricultural producers who are fighting for survival through agriculture. No one wants to listen to them. The law is written in the ministry in four walls and simply all these proposals that come from our prominent OPGs, from our prominent associations which have indeed proved to be with their proposals extremely good for and law but also for the survival of farmers. They don't smell one percent of them. So why is that? I simply cannot understand that today's ministry and minister do not see, and especially what comes from Slavonia and Baranja in what situation agriculture and small OPGs are in. So can we in any way influence more than just the people from the field who came here to the Croatian Parliament, where they pointed out to their constructive discussions don't do it so it's at the expense of agriculture, it's at the expense of the agricultural economy. And with all these possible appeals, simply both the minister and the ministry remain deaf and the question is, and we'll see what happens until the second reading, if they can figure out what these people are talking about and whether they'll be able to change what's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100878	On behalf of the SDSS club, Mile Horvat reported. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Yes, Minister Jakovina answered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100879	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Obviously whenever I come to the Assembly with my associates and with any bill, it's quite inspiring to you, and even when the first reading of the laws we always appeal to is to get as many constructive proposals and remarks as possible to make it better until the second reading with the purpose of the effectiveness of the legal solution. Obviously, we use the opportunity to actually, through exposure and through replicas, open up everything and stuff and bring out a series of false things and things that just don't stand. That's why now, after every club or individual exposure, I wouldn't be this big a number of replicas that specifically repeat things that don't stand, that don't have facts behind them and that are actually quite colored and demagogy and politics, so I'm using the opportunity to respond to most of the things that I've heard here no matter what I say, I won't say the closing words. Dear fellow Lucic, you are the chairman of the board, you have read one position of the board, another position of the club which is legitimately right but I think you are also a conscientious representative but also as president of the club you had the opportunity and all the information in time not to present so many false facts and lies. Once again, I will speak very clearly even though I am speaking and I consider it a resolute minister that I generally never support the division of large and small, but only those who can, know and will and who have good agricultural production and those who do not manage in agriculture which is an important strategic branch of the economy and an important form of entrepreneurship. I'm talking about the availability of agricultural land, until the establishment of the information system, we didn't know how much state agricultural land we had and it was established in 2014. 12 years before I took over the Ministry of Agriculture in 2001, since the first law it was time to put all state land into office. According to existing laws, it was the units of local self-government that you're now in favour of. I am sorry that this has not been realised and that I have not become a minister in which all state land has been put to use, sold, leased, concessions in forms that are agricultural producers. You didn't do it. In those 12 years, it was put into operation 268 thousand acres. You're talking about how personally I, probably alluding to me, benefit from this law. I support the large, of 268 thousand acres of 62,000 acres you sold. The sales ratio of large and small can be clearly determined throughout all those years but we count that it is not on the side of small ones. You leased 117 thousand acres. The same ratio is at least 50:50% of large users and small ones. In the third category as extremely important long-term concessions that could only be obtained by large companies, you gave 88 thousand hectares, 33% of your land that you made available to large companies in 12 years. You're attacking this power that we haven't done anything and that in 2014, we have results that we have. You're all in order, and especially in your presentation, you forgot to say that we've put 53,000 acres into temporary use. These are the owners of the OPG which had land on form 1 and form 2. Form 1 I will repeat these are agricultural producers who have enjoyed land on some form of contract that they had from the county and the municipalities. Form 2 is those who had confirmations from municipalities, one year's certificate. They couldn't even collect support for that land, 53,000 acres just put into operation through temporary use for 5 years. Through this proposal of a legal solution, through an additional score of 10% of such people, we have allowed them to put 10%, with 10% to encourage young people, to make more points on their units of local self-government, and they come into a situation to win. I repeat, for 12 years, you have been available under the laws that you have brought to your majority in this House, to deploy state agricultural land in the most just and legislative way. You didn't do it, or you did 268,000 acres, we see with what numbers. We can mention and go back to that when the Agricultural Land Agency was founded. We can, in 2009, in the same person he was also head of the resolution board at the Ministry and the directors of the Agency and President of the Governing Council. I'll try to get back to you through the other answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100880	Minister's time. We have replicas and answers to replicas. First of all, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100881	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, what are you yelling at us for? So we're just trying to point out what needs to be fixed in the law, put the teaching on what Mr. Lucic was saying, we thought more of those remarks your deputy said would still be able to deliver here that they would be the same today in additional materials along with the bill. You're saying there's lies here. Well, Mr. Minister, you're known as the minister who deceives the public the most, so they call you a con man. Get the people off your back, don't say that. You're talking about 268 acres that were previously made available, so how long will it take you to make 268 new hectares available? Did you calculate that? You don't share OPGs, you don't divide into large and small, you divide into successful and unsuccessful. So the law has to protect the weaker one, it has to protect the smaller one, the smaller one can't be preserved and fought unless the law protects him, and now you say you have no intention of protecting those small ones, and they're life not only in food production, they're life in space, they're keeping space. Have you calculated the points according to this new proposal that will happen, if you have as minister a specific question, a simulation that will be relative to large and small, for example. There are several competitions currently in place that do not have to know the name and last name. Whether after the new score model, the new proposal will be a small advantage or at least be leveled in it or get big again. What happened shows it went all the way to the big side.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100882	Minister Jakovina answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100883	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow MP, at no point did I say in my five minutes that we would not or will protect anyone in particular or that we would not protect anyone. I only provided information on how agricultural land was held back for 12 years. And I said what was silenced here, that we were actually the most exposed group, and these are the little OPGs that couldn't come into a position to buy, they weren't going to buy, they weren't going to come into the lease, they were actually doing land on year-long certificates through the model we had, and we're talking about 53,000 acres we gave them the opportunity to work the country for the next five years and to get support for it. When you talk about how much we're going to put and how we're going to put land into operation, it's going to show up after, every year we're doing summation, like we're doing, and simulations of what's going to happen in these models. If we have so far had a distribution of 60% of the economic programme, 20% of the prices, and 20% of the current peaceful property, and this law modifys it to be 60% of the economic programme, 10% of the young, 10% of the domicile, and 10% if these are the current users of one of these models, then it is very simple to calculate how much each application on request will have the ability to score points. The economic program is important. Within these 60 points 20 points refers to the type of production it deals with, where, through a number of weight points, we have actually given the possibility to those sensitive sectors that have no land, I am talking about livestock, I am talking about the production of vegetables and fruit, about seed production, that, based on their production, they can get more points and easier to get through the economic programme to rent agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100884	Second replica, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100885	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you're a good listener or if you don't understand at all. Did you hear what I said in my presentation, that in 2003 you said that you would put 500 000 hectares of agricultural land into operation, that in 2014 you had concluded, listen to me well, 65 contracts or 1142 hectares, that it was 5.4 long-term lease contracts per month. So, Mr. Minister, you want to move on? In 2014, you had 124 public calls. Of which, you had a total of 17100 hectares, and you made contracts for 1142 hectares, which amounted to 6.7% of the land offered in a public call. So are these the results with which you can boast, but you only have in mind how and in what way to pollute the former HDZ government, how they didn't know how to do anything, while at the same time negotiating the European Union by which you are working today and implementing exactly the programme at the Ministry of Agriculture. Because if it weren't for the HDZ Ministry of Agriculture at the time, you dear ministers wouldn't have anything to talk about today. And the launch of tenders for measures 4.1, 4.2, without the European Union's permission would allow much to be discussed. It is a time that follows us where you will have to take responsibility, so if at the same time those people who have invested in capital investment are going to have huge damage if rural development is not accepted by the European Commission. Yes, Mr. Minister, you will be solely responsible, your ministry and this Government of the Republic of Croatia that is causing enormous damage to farmers in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100886	Minister Jakovina answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100887	Požega-Slavon County in 12 years below 60%, and 60% of you had no access to state agricultural land. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100888	Peace, set up the Ministers. ... Listen, colleague Shuker, don't disturb the minister while he responds to the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please give the Minister time again, give the Minister time again and let's be parliamentary. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100889	Here today in the debate on the Agricultural Land Act we heard about aflatoxins, about how one thing that, and you should agree because it is your profession, was really done in 3 to 4 weeks with all the praises of not only the professional public but also the neighbouring countries where we have routed the way the crisis is solved and where we have compensated with the new replacement food plus the financial donations to farmers affected by this affair we have shown how it can react, how it can be done. This data that I'm saying once again is just because I don't want to attack something that hasn't been done, although I wish time had been used in the best way and that this land has been put into operation because then we would have entered with much larger actually reference amounts and agricultural areas into the common agricultural policy and everything else, and now we're dealing relatively quickly with everything that can be done. These amendments to the law through this way of points are in some way further protected by farmers in view of their domicileness, given the young farmers and I am certain for those who worked land on one year's certificates could not have long-term leases on those surfaces. Through this way, by amending and supplementing this law, as much land as possible will be put into production and actually put into registers and in the possibility of withdrawing funds for direct support. You mentioned a rural development program, I'm not going to take a special look, I've heard from this home that there won't be any competitions or approved programs in 2015. I don't know how many times it's been returned to us. You could refer back to the data here, argueably explain that this is not true, that our rural development programme will be among the first 30% of the rural development programme of all Member States. I'm talking about a total of 118 rural development programs, adopted, and I'm behind the tenders we've called. and we don't want to lose an additional two, three or four months until formal acceptance... [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100890	Thank you. Last replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100891	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, you've had one big and huge problem since you got here. First of all, you've come totally and absolutely unprepared for the post of minister and because you're here, I'm sorry, you have an agronomic profession, but you're not an expert in that, and you haven't been following what's going on. For you, as if there had never been a war in this Croatia, you say that the HDZ government destroyed 12 years of agricultural land as if nothing had ever happened, but that's 12 years of destruction. You're talking about the agency that was founded in 2009. Here you see, Mr. Minister, if you had come prepared, if you wanted to be a minister, if at all the SDP, if that were important to him, then you'd know that the agency had to be founded, that there was an accreditation waiting and that unfortunately there were lost elections as far as HDZ is concerned, and that in these three years you've been hiring by similarity, and not at all by expertise. Your associates were leaving you, you were chasing something, they left you something, and only now can we say that the new director of this agency somehow caught some strings and started doing something. When we talked about ARCOD, it was as if you had never heard what it was or what it was like in your life. You wanted to tell us in 2012 that you founded the ARCOD. I'll take it out of you, I told you last time, all your statements in the Parliament. I'm sorry, because it's not you as a minister, it's the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia. You say there's an important economic programme at your disposal. So how then? Not yet, I'm sorry. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Then how do you explain this firm from Brač, forgive the Solta whose, hers was some kind of economic program? [[Intruder Stazic: You ran out of time 7 seconds ago.]] It's concrete, concrete, and it's got agricultural land. So give me an explanation, answer that question. You're standing right here in front of us, so tell me. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100892	And you say whether the rules apply to everyone equally or to HDZ don't apply? The replica matches a colleague named Jakovina. The answer to Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100893	The answer to your question from Solta can't get out of the sleeve, but I can tell you that it's not agricultural land, it's forest land that's been leased for 50 years based on government decisions. In fact, these are particles that are still determined by the decisions of the former government, and we are now implementing and giving the possibility that these particles that are not in nature forest to raise olive groves and vineyards, or long-term plantations. I need to see exactly what the subject is, so respected colleagues can arrange for you, but it's not agricultural land, it's forest land based on government decisions and previous governments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100894	And I guess there was a previous government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100895	We had a change in the Law of the Forests in this House, so we said how is it available to a land that is not in the nature of the forest and that is how it is mastered, and this remains in general and I don't know what would be your special replication. I told the data that did. We have seen certain problems and shortcomings in the implementation of this law, and so we have given through these changes and complemented the proposal how to improve it. And this point, i.e. additional intensity, is to enable young farmers through additional points to acquire agricultural land, to further strengthen the domicile of the farmers themselves with 20 out of 100 points. It hasn't been until now. With these amendments and additions to the law, we propose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100896	On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Igor Czech Republic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100897	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. It's almost traditional whenever the agricultural law debate is held in we can freely say late in the evening. And yes, they don't have our farm manufacturers maxtv, because it takes a lot of milk and a lot of cows to milk to pay for that maxtv and I don't know if they know that we're having a debate today about the extensions of the Agricultural Land Act. The land is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia and any amendments to the law which has a direct impact on the availability of land in the Republic of Croatia should be approached with special attention. The applicable law has been applied since 11 April 2013 and then at the HDSSB we warned that it would be very difficult to implement it. You today, with these amendments and the additions to the law, you admit that we were right. You are changing half the articles and supplementing them, but these changes do not touch the core of the law. Because what we paid particular attention to was article 27 of the existing Agricultural Land Act. This article continued to be centralised as the powers of local self-government units were lifted with regard to the availability of state land and all taken over by the almighty Agricultural Land Agency. The reasoning of the legislator for these provisions is that because of the ineffectiveness so far without respecting the fact that the units of local self-government once agreed by the competent ministry on the decision to choose waited up to a year and sometimes more. The exclusion of cities and municipalities from the decision-making process as well as the whole process of implementation of the state-owned agricultural land programme brought by the representative bodies of the local self-government units has led to even stronger centralised and the opposite of the announced decentralisation. By abolishing the programme of available agricultural land-owned jobs, the agency took over. The question arises how much land the agency has leased. So we have data from 2014 that don't go a bit in favour of that farm land agency. So it says that the agency has contracted 65 contracts to rent 1442 hectares, imagine 1442 hectares. When the law was passed, the proposer said that the law's intensity would be as much as, a million hectares of agricultural land and that if I did not cheat 7 billion kuna, the state would create 40,000 new jobs, and in 2014 according to the contracts concluded, the annual lease amounted to around 800,000 kuna. So away from those numbers that were the intensities of the existing law. A little bit about the economic programme, the economic programme has its components prescribed and its evaluation plays a role in the professional holding of call participants, at the disposal of the necessary mechanisms, in addition to other staff, planned new employment, innovative production planning, etc. By observing the evaluation of the above elements, it is evident that large ones are taking advantage of the family holding. Whether the family agricultural economy in the economic plan will be able to name new employment, I don't believe, but I'm sure big businesses are the frames to do it one way or another. Another very important item in the economic programme is the secured market for products intended to be produced. What does this mean specifically for the OPG, is it going to have to have a contracted cooperative production to prove that it has a secure market? This item also places them in an unbalanced position. For precisely these reasons, we at the HDSSB Club have proposals in the very way of the score. So our proposals are that the economic programme carries up to 50 points. The previous owner, if he is in a peaceful possession, is based on a valid tender or the current owner if he is in a peaceful possession of 20 points, the holder of the OPG, who is under 40 years of age, has been registered in the register of agricultural holdings for more than one year of 10 points, and the amount of the lease offered up to 10 points is proportional in the range of the initial to double initial lease which bears the highest number of points. It is also the residence or headquarters of at least two years until the publication of a public call or a production facility in the area of the unit of local self-government, i.e. the City of Zagreb for which a public call of 10 points is called. The Regulation on the pattern and method of evaluation of the economic programme for the use of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia following the adoption of the proposed law should be amended in a way that makes it more favourable for the OPGs, amend certain criteria and add new ones that add to the OPGs. We believe that the economic programme cannot be a key element for a decision on the most favourable bidder, so points are reduced from 60 to 50. We also propose that, in the transitional and final provisions of Article 37(2) of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, instead of the start of proceedings under the Law on Agricultural Land, it will end under the provisions of the Law, because it is more favourable as regards the score for the OPG. Without these proposed changes, we will have absolutely no effect. Croatian villages continue to become empty, many family farms are permanently destroyed, blocked, under wraps and raids. Measures are needed in the urgent process and liberating the village from aggression and the press of the tax, banking and buying-in cartel lobby. Young people watching what happens to their parents leave the Republic of Croatia in an enormous number. So some places are mostly in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem almost halved. The depopulation and eviction of the population from rural areas have a major negative impact on the living and working conditions of farmers in rural areas, and often play a crucial role in making a decision to stay on a small agricultural holding or to leave it. Of the five Slavonian counties, four counties fall into extremely rural areas, only Osijek-Baranja County belongs to the rural area. So we who live in Slavonia and Baranja can thus feel what it means to leave the village, abandoning the grandfatherland. It is very important for the future of small farms in rural areas to represent a model of social agriculture. Today, the most widespread in the EU, which can and must exist together with other agricultural models, which is the decision of a larger area and strong market orientation. The CAPs have been the basis for a common agricultural policy since the beginning of the EU creation. So few OPGs play an important role in the employment and life of rural areas. The resolution of the European Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of January 2014 which calls on Member States to draw up appropriate solutions and models for the development of small CAPs and to take into account the specificity of agriculture and regional differences in the country concerned. Trends of stagnation of individual high income branches will continue. I note that only 10 billion kuna are collected from the VAT alone and about 2.5 billion return. Could we not see on the benches a law that would reduce the VAT rate on food, on agricultural and food products, because we have reduced the VAT rate for reproductives in agriculture to make it easier for those who try to live out of any easy work to cope with this difficult situation in which they are located. Unfortunately, the Agricultural Land Act leads to even stronger centralisation because local units are either excluded or partially or fully to address many essential problems. Can a solution be found and intervened to help farmers affected by illogical rules? Speaking of illogical rules, I have to mention tobacco producers, who occupy a good part of Virovitica-Podravna County and a good part of Virovitica-Podravna County are just living off tobacco production. The largest VAT payment during the year comes in January, so before they are paid back, and therefore, because of this indifference, they are threatened by the tax administration's blockade. It is mentioned that as much as 60% of the OPG is in the blockade, I don't know if the information has been verified, I'd like to hear what the minister says about it. Since 2012, protected accounts have been abolished according to the OPGs and, unfortunately, those support and can be blocked and unpaid, and we know that almost all OPGs live on exactly that support. Finally, we must define a clear policy towards Croatian agriculture and the Croatian village in order to finally put primary agricultural production into the function of meeting the needs of the domestic market and exports and the development of the food industry that must create added value from which jobs will be financed and serve primary production. We find it inadmissible, for example, that exports amount to $1.5 billion in 2013, while imports are bigger for huge 1.2 billion. Likewise, if we observe the self-sufficiency of certain agricultural products, we can very easily determine what we lack. It's about products that are mostly highly profitable. Almost all fruits, vegetables, meat we don't produce enough for our own purposes. Of course we're addicted to banana imports, we can't make bananas here, but why don't we make tomatoes? The Republic of Croatia must strongly encourage the production of insufficient products, create a competitive agriculture that will be able to respond to the common European market, protect domestic production by strengthening the customer's awareness of buying quality domestic products, but by reducing the burden on our production and making our product accessible to our customer's pocket. We welcome, in front of the HDSSB club, certain amendments to this law, especially regarding the right to build because agricultural producers will be able to build agricultural buildings on the leased land. It is also a good provision that will be able to be rented and the facilities used for agricultural production, owned by the Republic of Croatia. Elimination of the water compensation for ponds will increase the competitiveness of fish from domestic farming towards import fish. It's also a good decision, and I hope they can liven up to our ponds becoming a place of production, not a place of chic and abandoned bars. The right to transfer ownership is also possible, but the issue of transfer of rights to support is raised. It's not regulated by this law. And finally, we can't say that this is a bad bill, but it's late. We could compare it to the paratroopers, if the parachute doesn't open in time, the consequences are catastrophic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100898	I thank you, too. We have five replicas. First Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100899	Thank you very much. Comrade Chešek, you can see from your presentation that here did not take the full time that was intended for it, that it is not only critical but it is also very constructive. So you put out the data, you made proposals that I hope will be in good faith, and if it really is an honest decision and intention and ministers and people in the agency and in the ministry, it will be accepted until the second reading, so we'll have them in the second reading material. Namely, this Article 27, where the quality of the economic programme is prescribed, is the main key to the problem that the OPGs cannot compete with large companies, with large systems in the quality of the economic programme because neither the expert prepares nor the mechanism that simply needs one small OPG can compete, and this carries 60 points. That's the majority that crosses 50%. No other measures, this 10% of the young, can threaten this 60%, and for nothing, what the players say to us. So what you suggested, so 50% of that, that's much better. That's why we bring the small ones into the competition with this big one. Secondly, you said there was a number 60% of OPG in the blockade. So this is also seen by how much the number of OPGs in the Republic of Croatia is reduced year by year. Why is it shrinking? Well, I guess they're fine, so they're shutting down the O.P.G. It's completely too much, totally logical.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100900	Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100901	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Grubisic, you have also confirmed the views of the HDSSB club and here it is not always that we are an opposition, so we are only criticising, always trying and proposing some concrete measures that would help these unfortunate farmers who are truly in a very invisible position. That's why we asked for a reduction in the economic programme that carries 60 points to 50 because it's not the same for let's call them large systems that have employees of dozens of agronomists, economists, lawyers. Surely they will write an economic plan more easily than that of our unfortunate Shima, and he only wants to come to the earth and work. However, there is one very good thing that is happening in the Republic of Croatia, and these agricultural producers are increasingly attending various and seminars and trainings where they can be introduced to new ways of production. There are examples and good practices, so it's not all black, but they need a chance. They need a chance, and this key role must be played by the ministry, but also by the Agricultural Advisory Service that will leave, I have already spoken on several occasions, go to that village, tell people the climate is such, your soil is such, you are usually for production, for example. Beans, for the production of cabbage... Why should we produce wheat at 2 hectares, you won't be able to live from it, you can plant cabbage and you'll live and that's quite clear. Well then we are assured of the stability of the Croatian village and these small farmers who can certainly run both the village and the state because without small people, without small producers there is no state. Large systems cannot provide enough resources to finance the state budget. There are some sightings and our club, and I hope the minister will seriously consider changing this score. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100902	Branko Box, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You were talking about an old system of agricultural land and speaking about the role of local self-government units on the one hand, on the other hand about today's centralisation. Out of 550 as many municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia, only 74 seem to me units of local self-government that have not adopted programmes on the availability of agricultural land. And that was like the foundation and cause of putting units of local self-government in the position we are in today. Because I think the best thing that we do in the field is know what the land is and what would be best done there, and that's still related to Article 9 which is good. I commend the Minister's initiative, i.e. the Ministry's Article 9(5), where the... i.e. the giving of opportunities, the advantages of actually making certain types of agricultural production in the tender itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's okay and it's commendable anyway. But to apply it in practice, you need to do exactly what you said, so... You can plant blue or blue in Slavonia, but it won't work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So do I. I have no reason to plant wheat in Dalmatia if the wheat works better in Slavonia. That's right. You mentioned the centralization of her. I think it's just as much of an advantage to big systems, and that still has something to do with the economic program you mentioned. Why? Article 11(9) refers to the giving of opportunities, i.e. the evaluation of the economic programme for the bidder who is a company. So, in the light of take all the resources he has. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Because that's what it's supposed to be, so it can be interpreted twice. That should give that possibility to the O.P.G., then also end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100904	Thank you very much. Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100905	Thank you. I'll start at the end of the line. The existence of these resources raises the question if a certain large company owns 100 tractors in the area of Osijek-Baranja County and competes for land agriculturally located in the area of Požega-slavonska and Virovitičko-podravska. Is this company meeting the economic plan, because she owns it, so she'll bring in the swan, bring in... I want you to push and go back to your seat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there they are, and those poor peasants of ours will sit well on the fence, on the board, watching someone else plow their field. When you talk about ryonization, and this is practically from the HDSSB draft, this is a fundamental postulate and I talk very often about this districtization in the Agriculture Committee at the HDSSB. Of course, it's very important to produce what works better there and produce it. When you mentioned units of local self-government, don't get me wrong, but surely you from Benkovec are better acquainted with your or Biograd, familiar with the situation with you on the ground than I do if I sit in the center of Zagreb. So clearly, every unit leader of local self-government is in the interest of the agricultural land that is in his domain being processed and that people live on it. Well, that's clear evidence. Well, we can't do something with centralised. The one in Zagreb can't know what it's like for me in Ilock, how much I have processed agricultural land. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100906	A new replica of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100907	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear fellow, yes, I agree with your debate, and here I have listened to these replicas of yours. We at the HDZ Club will always stand up for the Croatian peasants, and I would say that mainly for the family agricultural economy, because it does, and you yourself said the backbone of agriculture. Look, I was talking to the minister, and now I'm going to do it again. Seven years of monitoring the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. My question continues to be, isn't it better in those 7 years while monitoring the sale to foreigners, so sell to the family holding, the domicillin that deals with agriculture or the organic farming, and today we have the situation next. At the age of 50, three companies were awarded, for example, one from Daruvar received land at a distance of 70 km. Another company is from Orahovica, it has won the country for 50 years to manage, and 120 km is away from it. And this is the smallest distance in Medjugorje 15 km. No family farm will be able to do as you said, and why not sell it if it is attached to it. But either change some other laws, it's complex. The inheritance law, for example, well, then we had this commission. There should be a lot of legislation to be harmonised and then this family farming business, I'd say mixed agriculture, but here's those that deal with organics and we know what's waiting for us from year to year as far as organic agricultural production is concerned. We have a big problem, like wool, wool that pollutes And we don't have a solution, or the ministry doesn't have a solution. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] We'll have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100908	The replica matches Igor Češek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100909	Thank you. Dear colleagues of the twilight, it was, so we're all witnessing irregularities when HDZ had agricultural land. But today is not the topic of this debate, so I'm not going to take a special look at it. I'll look back on what you were saying about selling agricultural land for a period of seven years. So the key question is whether the agency is working so weakly to rent agricultural land just to leave a certain amount of land to someone. Who's someone? We always mention strangers, foreign capital. Maybe they'll get better oil.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100910	A new replica, Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100911	Thank you, Vice President. My esteemed colleague, Chesek, in his opening part, and I'm going to be very honest with you now, I expected you to start solidum pulsism. But you opened that story and you went into one, so I'd say expert debate, very correct if I may point out. But for the sake of this right hand side, we need to speak very clearly about some things, so if I have a good memory of the service, small family farms are moving with their production somewhere in 92, 93, depending on the different areas in the Republic of Croatia. Your criticism went in part and justified to the great producers that the frames were to prepare a good economic programme. Well, of course they're frames when they have professional personnel. It's very simple. But you're a fellow agronomist like me, so I'll be in this second part of the debate, let's say I'll try to be professional, sum up that part of what you were talking about. So the question goes what local governments in local self-government units have done and done in the past 23 years to enable this small farmer producer at the OPG to develop quality economic programmes. Why, for example, have small manufacturers not formed machine rings in the past 23 years, who has prevented them from doing so? Comrade twilight, I'd be so parliamentary, you wouldn't be in my word if you didn't defocus me. [[Twilight: They formed.]] On the other hand, on the right all the time there are stories about how Slavonia was ruined, how Slavonia failed, how the villages disappeared in Slavonia, etc. So who in Slavonia is in power in these five counties that you've been talking about for the past 20 years? Maybe that's what citizens would like to hear, who needs to feel responsible because small farms are in poor shape? Well, the local government. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100912	Now what do you want me to give you a warning? How do you behave in the Parliament? You're throwing away your colleagues, so act parliamentaryly. I'm here to conduct a session and to prevent you from acting like this. Let your colleague speak, be parliamentary. Answer to the replica Igor Češek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100913	Thank you, dear fellow Roman. I don't know what it was like for Prime Minister Milanovic Slavonia, if I forget you, mentioned his right hand and his drying, I can see they're still in office. I don't care what HDZ was doing, so I don't care, so we talked loudly about HDZ's sins, but the people gave you confidence, so you promised to do something. You had a plan 21 that we can see doesn't work. Well, I won't look back on HDZ's sins, I absolutely don't care about them, and I'm not interested in anyone who's following this debate today, if anyone's following. So he's interested in what you're making, what you've done. What will happen in the future with Croatian agriculture? That's the problem, and that's why I've been trying to conduct the debate constructively for exactly that reason to see what can be done. So we won't keep going back to the sins of Racan's government, the sins of Sanader's government, I'm not defending anyone, but it's more time for these divisions to stop. Because if we don't think about how to really help this Peri, which absolutely doesn't matter if he was a member of SDP, HDZ, Labourist or HDSSB, so we all need it first and foremost to keep that man on his grandfather, to live off his work. And until we figure it out, whatever it is, this debate and everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100914	The last replica of Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100915	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague of the Czech Republic, a very short replica related to local self-government units. You mentioned the word "centralization," and I mean especially with regard to the agency, so I figured it out. Look, when we talk about local self-government units, then we must always mention their financial capacity. Here are examples of the measure of agricultural land, the measure of agricultural land cannot be made by local self-government units or most local self-government units themselves, they need state help, they need county help. By the fact that I think the county actually in this whole procedure, and that was also in those changes the law shouldn't take away from the Agricultural Land Act too much, to say so to the floor because they didn't actually do anything about it. The programs were run by local self-government units, i.e. municipalities and cities, a programme of agricultural land availability, and then it happened, and then when there was no money, that a commission was formed that wasn't of course made up of geodetics, of people professional than people formed a commission to be as cheap as possible, and then it happened that someone got a leased agricultural land so he asked if I had to go there by helicopter because he actually couldn't get to his land because those who ran him into the property didn't actually take him in the legal way. These problems have been piling up for years. Of course it doesn't work here to be called, you're right, you shouldn't call HDZ or SDP for this or that government, but in any case you have to detect the problems, you have to go back to history to see where the problems are. When we talk about the membership, there's been a Law on Cooperation and it should certainly be welcomed is not, 25, how many years have nothing been done on this issue at all. So, in agriculture there are problems but I wouldn't have this picture, today there's a whole picture being created in Slavonia there's a large number of opgs that work very well, which are very successful in this business, and that we're not creating a black picture. There are people who have problems, of course there's an important education, it's important, this is the first reading, the minister has highlighted the first reading, there are suggestions to be made so as to see how best this can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100916	The answer is Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100917	Comrade Sagar, you mentioned in the county replica and they were doing the geodetic measurements. I agree, but with this existing law, if I'm not mistaken, right now, under this law, the existing county only gets 10% of the assets from renting agricultural land. Whether the power in the future of the county will do geodetic measurements, and we know that you've reduced their resources. And finally, if we're paying some taxes, taxes, and all those various charges parafiscal, then I guess the state can also draw some kind of kuna from the budget for that unfortunate peasant. As far as Slavonia is concerned, so you live in Slavonia very close to me, and you know how things are, you were also the head of the municipality. I think you're familiar and yes, I was talking about it. We don't need to go back to the past, but we need to honestly recognise what wasn't done well with this bill, but also with the existing law. So we took away the right to make land available to local self-government units and severely centralized it. So we see from the data how many programs were written in 2014, not programs, but how many contracts were concluded, 65 contracts, and a million hectares of land were mentioned, 7 billion kuna, 40,000 new jobs, contracts concluded with 1446 hectares. That's the success of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100918	On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100919	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's the presence of our parliamentary representatives showing us the best interest we have in this topic and this debate. What I would like to say at the beginning of the presentation in front of the HNS, that we welcome the efforts of both the ministries and the Agriculture Land Agency which have organized this material for our first reading. If we are well-intentioned, then today when the first reading is concrete, we will make suggestions and do everything possible to make this Law on the availability of state agricultural land as high as possible, the better. Here to go to the debate that was made, which is not made, who is guilty, is behind us for 25 years and we can conclude that agricultural production with family economies and a complete agroresor is not at a satisfactory level. It's not. So all the policies that have been so far have not provided adequate answers and have failed to solve what impairs agrarian production. Here, colleagues with full rights spoke their views, and are convinced that this law can resolve the issue of Croatian village survival, whether in Zagora, whether in Slavonia, whether anywhere. No, I don't. With this law and no such law in the Republic of Croatia, there is no one to stop it. Without organised measures that will connect more sectors, here I think this law can, to some extent, stop certain processes, but not too much, because what we have a notion of agricultural production that we can deal with all agriculture and that we can all be successful, unfortunately, it will not be possible to exist and unfortunately we will have to face the reality of the market economy. And so at first, I would say that, certainly before any debate on the management of state agricultural land, we have to make an inventory of the situation: how much land it is, how many family economies it is, how we want agriculture, how we work, and then we'll have a lot more. Here I am pleased to finally get an accurate record of how to dispose of state agricultural land and here we should say that this is about only 23% of the land used by the Republic of Croatia as agricultural land. So 77% of the agricultural land is in the hands of private, family economies and about this segment of special importance for the Republic of Croatia land, the Republic as the main owner of everything must take care and must deal with it. It is precisely the following Directives and common agricultural policies of the European Union, the next programme proposed by Mr Juncker to the Commission, that is affecting both agriculture and the economy. They're very important and important small and medium-sized economies and we're doing everything we can to make small and successful economies, I say successful, not only small and medium or small and large, meaning successful, we give these people a better and faster procedure. And one of the main reasons and changes to the Law on Agricultural Land is to comply with other laws so that this procedure is easier, better and that those family economies that illegally dispose of state agricultural land can enter into the property as soon as possible. What is important is that every time we talk about agriculture, we do not view agriculture as a social branch. Agriculture is an important economic branch that must be undertaken, which must be competitive and which must have a quality product. Unfortunately, a large number of family farms are left behind in a way that produces in a traditional way two or three cultures. We are here and colleagues have found that the Republic of Croatia over 50% of agricultural products are imported. Let's import what we need, which we don't need. So we're missing the organization, we're missing the expertise. What we certainly do when we talk about this law, that this law, in one appropriate way, solves the acute problem of livestock production, especially of the dairy sector, that here, without competition, it can, on a ten-year basis and without a public call, ease those difficulties in which they have found themselves a branch. We welcome that part and that decision. Also, we welcome the part that is related to a very significant production that once had 19 ponds in the Republic of Croatia, and now we've burned to 2 ponds, that with these measures, we'll be able to try to make this production more competitive and that the Republic of Croatia, because of the quality of water and the quality of fish from our ponds, can be competitive. I'd put family farms on the same level here, so family farms. These are smaller economies dealing with vegetable production, putting them in the same category as ponds because small family economies are less competitive, need more labour, but let them at least use water for free. As far as local self-government units are concerned, and their way of making themselves available, I will say that I do not share my opinion with my colleagues that there have been all possible and permitted and illicit actions. And I think given the importance of this resource, that the Republic of Croatia and the Agricultural Land Agency will implement it in a better, more uniform way. Because on these occasions where we are now it's for local self-government units and for less complicated, too difficult, and I'm afraid of major incidents. And I think local self-government units can be happy that they don't have that hot potato. What I would also do is in the debates held by the Committee on Agriculture with a number of stakeholders, I think 100 ha of the largest particle that may not be the best solution, that perhaps the best solution to the competition is the largest particle in the tender to be awarded, not 100 ha, but the largest particle. It can be 105 ha or 95 ha, to be the basis. It is also a good way for the state to propose certain production to its important resource. I'm going to mention in 2002 that as a unit of local self-government we brought in a program, where we put some working surfaces with water streams in vegetable production. That time we were told that the program cannot and must not be done. For these reasons, the program would be rejected. So it took this country 13 years to come up with what the waist said that time. So here's a safe suggestion to use and that's what needs to be respected. As for areas where there is no interest, and make sure that otherwise such areas should be agreed and units of local self-government and agencies, that there is a much easier procedure, because you have an area of no one's interest. So to open the competition and everything, I think that this process should be speeded up more significantly. In agricultural areas or agricultural land where it is a multi-year plant, I think it's enough for a year, that it should not be extended. Because if I'm going to take it, and I know what I'm taking, then my goal is to bring it to culture as soon as possible, not in a year, but in five months. Because this if we go for two years I started three trees alone or I took off and then nothing. The state lost two years. So, I think it's a reasonable period of a year and that's how it should work. This is good that with this proposal in the first reading, it is also limited to the areas that can be purchased. So in the coastal area or in the Adriatic Sea, Istria, it means areas that are less than 0,2 ha, and the areas that are on the continent that are less than 1 ha. I think that's okay, and that's how we're going to make it possible for both better and faster togethering and the disappearance of small particles. What is important in Article 30, where peaceful property is built by a new 10%, domicillivity 10%, under 40 percent. What I would like and what we would like in the Croatian People's Party club, if we could make a limit of up to 30 years 20 points, up to 40 years 10 points. Because here there should be special benefits for younger family economies that want to continue production in agriculture. Also in the family economies that are beginners, who finish agricultural schools and agronomic colleges, they should not be enrolled in the register of family holdings for two years but can be seen whether they are resident in that address and are automatically entitled. I think we should work that part out anyway. What is one of the biggest difficulties in implementing a policy on the availability of agricultural land, the harmonisation of catasters and land books. I think it's the biggest brake, but it's primarily a big commitment to the Agricultural Land Agency. As regards Article 35, issue of regulation of changes. I think it should definitely go that this process when the family economy gives due to death, whether because of sickness or any other reason if it is passed on to someone from the family to assume all rights and obligations both at their disposal with the land and on the grounds of encouragement. The aim of all of us here is to get an acceptable and clear law that will be applicable and that will primarily be in the service of developing competitive, quality agricultural production. And small OPGs can develop excellent programs, whether it's a question of fruit and vegetables, whether strawberry fruit I think are all programs that need to be valued. The goal of all of us, all the policies on the left and right is to get another very important and very important law, which is the Law on the availability of state agricultural land. In our first reading, we as a club support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100920	The replica of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mandic, that you said well at the end of your debate that all of us here in the Parliament want but also Croatian peasants want to get one good law, a real and clear law. In particular, I must say that in the HDZ, in the debate that was, the debate of the Agriculture Act, we asked that you remember the introduction of a point in this law that agriculture is a strategic economic branch. So starting from that, indeed, this one series of laws that should be passed in agriculture, and then this law, which we will advocate, will be improved even better in the second reading, and to be as many people with contentment as possible. I would refer only to your beginning when you said that there are few of us here, that's what I asked the minister for, which is why these laws regarding agriculture are always the afternoon, whether it's because of his busyness or for some other reason. Because you see there are parliamentary deputies who have other jobs and usually up to half two are free when most of the media is there, and when they can participate in the debate, then there would be a full assembly here and a lot more people would answer. However, I also congratulate the few of us who are here because it seems to me that it is a team that is always when it comes to agriculture here and always debates, regardless of what once the minister gets mad at us, but we really want the best of Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100922	The answer to the replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100923	Here's a thank you, my dear colleague, for your replica. Whether or not to place agriculture is certainly strategic production for every country, as well as for our country. Because one of the most important things about agrarian production and agriculture is to meet their own needs. But unfortunately, in 25 years of our own country, we haven't done our best in that field. I am not going to look for the guilty because the goal is that with these laws that we make them real, clear and enforceable and to benefit both agricultural production and family economies. What I may be missing sometimes, I, on this law and agriculture, come first and foremost from the professional side and very rationally. Normally you've been in the assembly longer, you have more emotions, so sometimes in the first reading maybe emotions are good, and maybe sometimes damage. I think sometimes it's better to make an argument and make sure that this other side is right. Because if we bring a policy issue to one another, then make sure we don't find a common solution. But in my opinion, the interest of all policies is that we have a competitive, quality policy, quality agricultural production, and in fact that we educate our family economies as much as possible. Normally, we have a good advisory service, but unfortunately we are at 247 and we need to have over 500 and normally not to meet the needs in that part. But I believe that the ministry will also accept one part of the proposal to win and that, in fact, this agricultural production remains sustainable with the family economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100924	The second replica of Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100925	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mandić, in the opening part of the introduction you mentioned the inventory of agriculture, I absolutely agree with the need to draw the line and tell yourself what direction we want to go and what we want to produce in this country. You mentioned the importance of small and medium-sized economies, so here's the whole afternoon or night we're talking about protecting small and medium-sized people, so here's our wish. So no one should be offended, no matter who told us, means the goal is to just protect that part of the farmer. You also mentioned Mr Juncker, 31st of June 2014, we had the honour of being together with Mr Siekierski, Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the European Commission and, if you remember, he was just talking about the role of local self-government when it comes to agriculture. And you're the principles of this topic regarding the protection of small and medium-sized people. And he's also asking you and himself what role today is the unit of local self-government when it comes to this topic? You said you would not want to take over that hot potato, or that we must be happy that the hot potato is not with us. I understand that it was as you said allowed and illicit actions, but I still stand on this view that it was much more transparent before, because at the session of the city council that decided on the choice of the most favourable bidder, besides all the council members of various political colours, it was the media, and today we have what we have. So we have five members of the commission and whether it's more transparent before or today. I think it was more transparent before.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100926	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100927	Thank you very much. A colleague, so surely in every business if you want to go quality forward you need to record the state that is, means inventory. We here have an inventory of about 780,000 hectares of state agricultural land, something sold before that, something divided but mostly with that land we need to see how to move on. What matters most is small and medium-sized economies that are successful. A small economy with wheat, corn can't survive, I can't. They can go with other more competitive productions. They need professional help here. ... Exactly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, the gentleman from Poland Sienkiewicz said... Siekier, well, you know who I mean. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He said the way to organize and connect and on this data was so persistent that we realized how important it was. Unfortunately, our people in these areas who live, especially in rural areas, who are engaged in agricultural production, have one bad experience with cooperatives, unfortunately. But there's no survival without it, no competition. You with some small beans, cabbage, any vegetables you're not competitive, no one's interested. You're not interesting. But if we have ten little veggies, that way they're looking for their own ways, because they'll find the best, and they'll best organize themselves to be competitive and get as much as possible, but it's in all of our interests to get the law that's applicable and that's going to be useful for the development of agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100928	Last line, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100929	Comrade Mandic, you said in your final statement that a young man should be given the opportunity, that he should be encouraged, that that is exactly how you thought and probably thought that a small economy should be saved within Croatia. I'm asking you one more time what today is the main topic and you said something about it but you didn't go all the way. Now, you tell me on the basis of the minister's proposal and the points he suggests that this man will buy the country. Let that minister calculate and tell me, Franjo, in your county a young man may receive or be hired by the country on the basis of the point my ministry has proposed. So give it to Mr. Minister, show it to the people between the first and second readings, and by the time we get to the second as you think the small economy will retain its level, how it will survive if you don't let him buy your land by law. And counterpart Mandic, the minister said next, that he had exactly the HDZ law of 2008 with larger quantities of land in the lease. So why did you change that law if it was good for you and if this law gave the little entrepreneur a chance to survive, be domicile in its environment and thus encourage, as you say and agree, these very small entrepreneurs. So we shouldn't have changed that law because it was just a basis to keep little twists on our doorsteps, and this way we just put ourselves in a position that people don't have opportunities, you know, they don't have the opportunities to start working. Here, take all these points, here I am now an entrepreneur, I'm going to run, which, with what points.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100930	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100931	Thank you very much. So you mentioned what was before, I didn't want to go back to it, but I'll just mention the operational programs that the government brought in when it was HDZ. That time you gave people so much money, so much credit without a single hectare of land, and now you're the biggest problem, but that was behind us. This when we look at it now, the structure of the family farms is very unfavourable, so it's particularly special, professionally the same, but if our goal is to get the young OPGs to get the land, then we'll set the criteria. That's why I was saying we needed... We don't know if he'll do it or not, but we need to say what we want here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I said, let's make an inventory and set our goals. I consider the survival of the OPG a young educated professional people, that is the future and we will have a competitive and all. If we consider that, then we will also do an economic programme where we will verify and evaluate it. I can't speak any other way than I think, and I think that's the way it's right. And if someone thinks a different way is better, they can't convince me that I'm wrong. So if our goal is a young family economy, then we also value it through economic programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100932	On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100933	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ministers with Associates. So in the opening part, I will skip the focus on this political performance directed by HDZ to discredit exclusively the Minister and Ministry of Agriculture, and I will actually return to the agenda point, which is the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Agricultural Land. So, the interesting thing is that the opposition colleagues throughout their debate and in their replicas neither part of them touched public debates. Therefore, the public debate on this law was from November 6th to November 21st, so it is two weeks, and it is likely that the chairman of the board will say in his individual debate that it was a brief debate and that the debate should have lasted at least a month. However, I would agree, perhaps, with this hypothetical claim that it was a new law, although the opinion of the opposition colleagues on the right is that there are major changes, almost 50% of the articles mentioned in the law. However, for the sake of objective information from the Croatian public, I should also say that a total of 24 comments or suggestions from 24 stakeholders arrived in those two weeks. First of all, citizens, individuals, legal persons, associations, professional associations but, of course, already mentioned units of local self-government and also public institutions. Suggestions are accepted, they're all rejected. The Ministry accepted suggestions from, say, the Brod Ecological Society, followed by Mr Robert Doka from Metković, the Association "Mliko" that is, the association that deals, the association of large farms or dairy producers, the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Laga Šumanovci, the Ecological Association of the City of Bu, etc. I have not seen one other city or another unit of local self - government and there are large remarks. There was something from Orahovica from the agricultural combinations, but that's it. So I have to look back at the reactions of colleagues who have noted that the settlement of agricultural land is going too slowly and that this is going on. What has the ministry been doing all these years, especially in the last three years, why hasn't it done anything? But let's look at some of the facts why it's really going so slow. So the notor fact is that in the Republic of Croatia, and I can say so in agricultural terms, there has been a rather chaotic situation of an unregulated country in agricultural terms, in recent years. According to state-owned programmes, 550,000 hectares have been listed in the past 15 years but patient data collection by the agency and the ministry and analysis of the same in September 2014 has established a figure of 738 thousand hectares of state agricultural land. Imagine! Plus 188 thousand acres more. How is that possible? What did the Agricultural Agency do in the previous period that suddenly dropped that information of nearly 200 thousand hectares? So I have already noted in my replication that there was neither a book of concluded contracts nor a record of those concluded contracts. In conclusion, we can say in this part of the agricultural land distribution programmes owned by the Republic of Croatia are approved, and the data on them were not accurate. Or I could use one of the words our Bosnian neighbors have so I could say "masala," but he's got a real job done. The Committee on Agriculture, which the president pointed out in his address in this House, reading the text published on the Croatian Assembly website, so we refer to the terms of the water compensation and the fees for the use of ponds, which are deleted by the proposal to amend and supplement this law. The Committee expressed its view in individual discussions that other agricultural producers are being brought into an unfair position by this provision. However, the proposer, the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has proposed the suspension of the water compensation for fishers owned by the State in order to just relieve economic operators of their business in view of the obligation to pay and the lease for the pond. It makes perfect sense to me, and I believe that for those of you who know something about the profession, to consider water as the necessary resource for the work of the ponds and for the production and farming of river fisheries. Of course the sea too, without water it doesn't work. And that it's quite enough to rent land to which the tenants are charged. So this is how the ministry helps these economies. The elimination of this said compensation that freshwater fish producers should have paid is estimated to have been around half a million kuna, about 500 thousand kuna, and in fact, that money will be able to reinvest or re-route producers to, say, further employment, invest in the restoration and modernisation of existing fish capacity, but also invest in new technologies and introduce quality management techniques, which is very important in this part of the production. The result is expected to increase fish production and export growth. It should also be said that by 2014, there was no register of freshwater ponds in the Republic of Croatia. Imagine! So many years ago, we didn't have a freshwater pond register. Now there are 19 totals, and there are 2 available. And I have to say, unfortunately, because of the long-standing concern for this part of production, the situation in this part and this sector is actually terrifyingly catastrophic, but it's changing for the better. It used to be a good sector, especially in this part of our Slavonia, in Baranja where there was developed freshwater fisheries and where this sector hired people and used agricultural products to feed these fish. So that's one closed cycle. But today he almost disappeared as a branch of economic activity and about the index of self-sufficiency or about the total consumption of freshwater fish of the average Croat is better not to speak. Now, the application of the existing Agricultural Land Act since 2013 has shown that the minister in the opening section also said that there are certain obstacles that slow down the agricultural land distribution process owned by the Republic of Croatia. The proposed changes and additions regulate the issue of which the resolution would actually speed up the process of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Now, you're dealing with the proposed changes. So, he would spend too much time talking about every item but what's important for my profession, I'll look back on only the part relating to cattle, so first of all he'll be able to make it possible for cattle, cattlemen, farmers who don't have land and who've got a lot of money to start production without real calculations in the number of conditional throats and how many hectares it takes to produce food for those animals. Why, why does it matter? So because these cattlemen receive support over the last three years under the accession contract and if that land is not granted to them, they will lose that support and that should be said loud and clear. I think it's quite enough and justifiable reason to go in such a change and addition of this law. In addition, it is possible that agricultural land on which a farm or a farm has been on the market for a number of years is not in a function that goes on the same lease. Unfortunately, this was not the case so far because it was partly considered a building plot and imagine a solution was awaited. It's a patient verb, waiting. It's like we're waiting for Godo who'll never come. Therefore, this proposal, amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, allows for the transfer of the lease agreement, or the possibility of transfer is also signed, which, unfortunately, I am re-emphasizing this so far was not possible. What's the biggest problem is that it's a domicile that doesn't exist in the Agricultural Land Act right now, and that's why, let's say, in some units of local self-government, it's a real alarm. Namely, the competition was attended by users from other counties, which made domestic producers, farmers angry. The above changes and introduces a criterion of domicileness which will definitely be justified. My predecessors mentioned in their discussions, and that is what the minister seems to have told me in his opening statement that it is absolutely necessary to stop the depopulation of the village in the existing frameworks. So all the speakers were full of mouths were villages, small producers, OPGs, etc. And for this very reason to stop the depopulation of the village, motivate especially younger people to stay in those parts. As a stimulating measure, ten points are also introduced for young people that so far in the existing agricultural land law has not been the case. And just by increasing these points for domicileness and OPG carriers who are, say, younger than 40 years old and falling into some category of still younger population of the Republic of Croatia are creating assumptions for the retention of young people in these troubled rural areas at present. Finally, the proposed amendments and additions to the law would allow, as I have initially said, faster availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of the law itself and putting into service of unused agricultural land in order to allow greater exercise of the right to pay out support under the new common agricultural policy system within the EU framework. For all the above mentioned SDP Clubs will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act for the simple reason that we believe it will also be stimulating for the survival of producers in rural parts of the Republic of Croatia but also because all the amendments and additions made by the Ministry, i.e. the Government, have proposed justified particularly in this work to which I have referred in livestock and aquaculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100934	Thank you. We have three bonding replicas. The first Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100935	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Roman, you started your presentation with, you said we had a performance so far, if I understood correctly. I don't know what this rest behind was, was it a sequel or a theater show? You're referring to a chaotic situation related to agricultural land. I don't know what that was all about. I am the head of the unit of local self-government for 21 years, I have 1110 hectares of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia in its own space, no tender has fallen, no contract has been cancelled and everything is public and transparent. All the leaders of the local self-government units who wanted and who wanted or mostly all of them under the old laws could solve these problems. But why didn't they have to ask? You further mentioned, it was catastrophic, but it's changing for the better. And now I'm going to read you the data to compare the import data for the period 2012/2013. Imports in 2013 increased by 27% compared to 2013. Total, i.e. general imports of milk and milk processing increased by 90%, imports of meat and meat processed 18, fruit and vegetables 21, sugar positive balance 2012 went negative in 2013, imports of vegetable and fruit products 14 etc. I don't want to read to you. And that's better for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100936	The answer to the replica Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100937	Dear colleague of the Box, I have referred to the situation within a number of indicators for agricultural land. So I wasn't talking about imports, I wasn't talking about these statistical indicators but I could. No, that's not the result, the result of that is that the Republic of Croatia has not yet produced a agricultural production balance and we don't really know what, what we need to produce. So, in the surplus, we produce a cartilage, say, wheat and we don't know, or the vast majority doesn't know that it's quite enough about 650 thousand tons and for the stock and as basic pears. We produce a million... Wait for fellow Box, now you have to change something so you're in agriculture, here's Mr. Lucic, so agricultural production can't be set up now and tomorrow it's changed. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] These are very slow cycles of change. So, the problem didn't arise by the coming of this government, by the time this minister arrived, the problem was much deeper, much more complex and much more content. I'm not pointing my finger at anyone, but I'm telling you that agricultural production wasn't seriously involved in this country. Ić with the postulate that a small family agricultural producer will be the bearer of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia after democratic changes and not prepare it for a competition it was a total fiasco and he comes now to collect 15 or 20 years later. So let's not talk to a full mouth about a small family farmer manufacturer. Someone mentioned the competition, let's see how much production per unit of surface with each producer, is it competitive? We can't be a dear colleague of the Box competitive with wheat or Hungary, or Ukraine, and we won't be until we change technology.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100938	The second replica of the twilight dwarve.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100939	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Roman, you started with performance and then you continued the ex-Catedra. And you said that everyone who knows anything about this issue of agriculture if I realized correctly that they have the right to say something. So I would remind you, or it's already an old-fashioned one statement from people living in the country, "That whoever didn't plow their own furrow will never know the problem." It's easy from the pay phone and it's easy from the ministry to talk about I don't know it's better now or what, but you need to listen to means producers who deal, who do. What bothers me personally, today in a few discussions is that we were constantly told 15 years ago nothing was done. That's what bothers me personally and insults me, insults me. Because it's as if it's forgotten, now I'm going to go back to politics, as if it's forgotten who was in power from 2000 to 2004, and how did that agriculture look as burned as it is now, and on the other hand, I don't know how we even got into the EU? I guess because nothing was good, we didn't do anything at all, or the HDZ government. Well, if you'd like to make an effort, it seems to me that you're agronomic experts, so you want to make an effort to be honest and realistic and say that this wasn't good, but this was good for you. The most difficult chapters were the chapters in agriculture, the most difficult chapters. And maybe it could have been something better, but this is the best they could do at that point.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100940	The answer to the replica Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100941	Thank you, Vice President. So, distinguished colleagues, you just said you're going to go back to politics, like we've had a very high-level scientific debate in this home. You esteemed colleagues never got out of politics unlike me who worked in the sector and I was just in production as you said before I entered this house and I know how a small producer breathes. I also know that it is very difficult to find a manufacturer who is ready to follow trends and invest in technology and new production circumstances. Such people in the Republic of Croatia can't find much. I suggest you maybe go from these benches to the country, talk to people, see what you can do, not get me out of this position. So, the fact is, I'm going to say it again this was a performance directed by HDZ to discredit the minister exclusively. You didn't stick to this bill at all in your discussions, you stuck to numbers, you connected left and right, up and down without purpose was your debate. The only purpose is to discredit the minister. Stick to the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100942	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100943	Thank you very much. Injured by Mr. Honorable Representative Article 238, I must say that I, I consider these statements to be related to me that he is demeaning me and for the reason that it is simply this policy of his and his party, simply does not know what he is saying and is telling me to go to the country, to me, to me, who, six years ago, came to this Parliament for the first time, and until then I spent all my time, an esteemed colleague as a doctor of veterinary medicine on the ground, as a consultant in agriculture and forestry, as a technologist on a big farm. And you will tell me how the village lives. And I went back to something that you were and I wasn't. That's exactly what behavior shows, and that's what we want, and that's demeaning. It's an insult to me, you know. I'd like to give that representative a warning right now because he insulted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100944	Like this, you only risk getting a warning. You only risk getting a warning because you abuse the Rules of Procedure. [[Twilight: Well offended me.]] There was no insult and no disrespect. ... Be patient to give you an explanation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you cannot endure a reply to the replica, do not replicate it, it is much simpler for you. Much simpler. You replicated, and you got what you asked for. And that's a violation of the Rules of Procedure for you. [[Twilight raider: I didn't.]] Well, it's not every time someone tells you the truth about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100945	It's not true, if it were true, I wouldn't have done any harm to the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100946	Please, you know that...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100947	I know it's not true what he said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100948	Please contact the Constitution Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100949	Well, I will.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100950	On behalf of the National Minorities of Juhas Shandor. ... I'm sorry, Mr. Juhas Shandor. I'm sorry. It's my fault. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100951	A fellow Roman, same as I told the minister. I'm sorry you're coming from Slavonia and Baranja, and I'm very interested in how you're going to explain to your people in the Vinkovci by defending this bill that doesn't apply to a man who wants to deal with agriculture tomorrow. I don't know how you'll explain it to him. You were talking about domicileness. Well, yeah, why don't you especially boost the domicile? Yeah, a young man, so let me say, and why don't you just give him 10 points, give him 20 points, encourage him to succeed, buy, or get land for rent, and we'll have as much tomorrow as we can. So let's encourage them. What do we encourage him with? So they can finally hit him with a 60-point economic program. Well, I'm very interested in how much the minister will propose in the new law the score of an economic programme that will bring down that agricultural production in the country by the end and the ministers you will be written in an analysis of agriculture that you have done everything as a minister to remove people from the village and that they simply disappear. I'm very interested in how many points you're going to get...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100952	Now I'm warning you twice not to replicate the minister because you've answered the line...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100953	All right, I'm talking to my colleagues, and I'm talking to the minister, so let him ask him when he's so hearty about defending him.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100954	No, no, our Rules of Procedure are very precise. Please read the Rules of Procedure, I'm sure you'll understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100955	I understand him so don't worry. So fellow Roman, ask the minister what he'll do to keep these people alive in their hearths that I've already spoken of. You were also talking about the water fee for the ponds. So do you think that farmers who deal with irrigation should pay water compensation, and one who deals with fisheries should not be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100956	The replica corresponds to Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100957	Dear fellow Lucic, for your information there is no tomorrow for agricultural production, there is only yesterday because those who want to deal with serious agricultural production had to prepare for this production. Unfortunately, they're not, and that's why we're in this moment where we are. Comrade Lucic, all the data you have provided in the numerical sense, so the numerical indicators are accurate. So statistics are the exact number of untrustworthy data, but in this case your expressions are correct but you didn't interpret them well. There has been a decline and a number of male cows and a decline in the breeding herd of sows, pigs. All this is true, but you had to point out in your debate that it was because of the poor operational programmes that the HDZ government unfortunately created. A few years ago, you were giving people money, giving them loans without agricultural land. People didn't have anywhere to make food. So you can't buy food on the market, such production is far the most expensive. You must have a certain amount of processed hectares where you will plant something of your own and in the cheapest possible way of producing without talking about production per unit of surface. So I repeat again, this was a HDZ performance only in one role to discredit the minister and what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing, nothing else. ... Comrade twilight, I still have time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you're neither parliamentary nor cultural, you're in the word. So don't interpret my decency with weakness.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100958	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Miss twilight. Which dot?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100959	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100960	You threw away while your colleague was talking, and he told you that you were rude and unparliamentary. Well, don't throw it away, so nobody's gonna tell you you're rude and unparliamentary. And in the House, you don't normally throw yourself fellow twilight, you could have learned that by now. There's no harm to the Rules of Procedure, or there is, the only person who's hurt the Rules of Procedure is you because you're throwing out a speaking colleague. Don't do this because not only do you violate the Rules of Procedure but you show what kind of person you are, and you don't need it. On behalf of the National Minorities of Juhas Shandor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100961	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to share a few thoughts with you, too, right now in these evenings. It's the others who have to stay, some because they have to listen to us, and some who have to say something. I think this bill has some good solutions, but there's a lot I can't agree with and they don't accept people from the area I come from. I had a meeting yesterday where I called and where about 45, 50 OPG owners, agricultural producers from the area of Baranja and the area of eastern Slavonia, Vukovar-Srijem County responded. They were all by nationality, Hungarians, but that may not matter, but it's important that this other thing is that the palette party is different. Almost from all parties were represented and more or less everyone agreed to what they said about me saying here on their behalf. We know this law is passed, right, for the entire Republic of Croatia, which is normal. However, we know that agricultural production is different in the area, that the conditions for production are not identical, nor the climate, nor the embossed properties, nor the rapid characteristics of particularly soil quality, different and historical heritage, different ways of exploiting soils, cultures that are grown. And it's hard to bring something here that would satisfy everything. I come from Baranja and I've pointed that out more than once. The area of Baranja is specific and as regards the distribution of land. Until the war, Baranja was a feather of world production. What was growing was at the very top of the world. Agricultural production was the basis of the life and development of these areas. Back in 45 years, the change in ownership structure has always led to great injustices and great trauma, leading to lagging behind. One of the greatest injustices committed during the past period was or occurred in 2005 when Belje was privatised. At that time, the Minister of Agriculture was Mr. Cobankovic, just like this to point out. The country that has become state-run in various ways, in our particular case, the white day is in private hands, given Agrocoru all in the interest of preserving jobs and production, all in the interest of continuing some continuity. How did this injustice reflect? So I'll just mention one municipality, the municipality of Petlovac. It's a small municipality, but there's about 5400 ha oranic somewhere, there's about 2 and a half thousand people today. The municipality was given about 2,000 ha, slightly less than 2,000 ha to Agrocor to preserve some 300 jobs. Today there is a job at Agrocor in Belje somewhere around 20, between 20 and 30 workers. The municipality of Petlovac because there was no industry there, so all people were dealing with exactly or that our white man was dealing exclusively with agriculture. There was something about the work of the land, there was something about the farm. At the same time that Agrocor was given nearly 2,000 ha of land to 8 settlements was deployed somewhere around 140 ha of land. So we gave someone 2,000, and we gave everyone else 140. At the time Agrocor was awarded a concession for some 20, 30 years, and the price was between 200 and 300 kn per hectare. Today they pay about 850 kn per hectare. The peasants were given land to rent for 3 to 5 years. Today they pay about 1600 kuna, which means twice as much for the country. They stand out for the lease, they have to compete again, although they have invested a lot in the country. They compete between themselves, which means who's going to take the land from whom. Belje got the country automatically, by inert because they were supposed to preserve jobs. Today there are no jobs, the industry has been sold or shut down, and the country has been taken over by the locals. If we're talking about justice, and it's the role of the state to run justice for all maybe we should think about it and these fellow citizens I talked to yesterday and think it's fairest to simply undo all concessions and all the leases and to all compete on the same terms. He loses his country, loses his local community, loses his people. You shut down the jobs for which you got the land, then you get the land back and let the one who lives there live. Let's give the country to the local population, give the land to the catastrian municipality of Petlovac or Kotlin, the man from Petlovec and Kotlin, and let's not give the country to the one who lives in Dubrovnik, Zagreb or I don't know what. Everybody do your job. Let the merchants trade, and let the peasants trade. I don't see any reason to do that. If we can get the banks to solve the Swiss problem, then I think that problem can be solved. Another interesting initiative has come. They say maybe we should limit the size of the property. There is no justification for any competition or cost-effectiveness or competitiveness in the EU, this is not America so that the average of the property is 180 ha. This is our country with our specificities. Our villages have their own social, economical, whatever function we want. These are settlements of 200, 300 people who lived well. We don't have farms, ranches or any Latins, so we have thousands and thousands of acres around them and we have nothing. There comes a slow time when everything that has been done in the last 20 years needs to be corrected slowly and people should be taken care of. What's that worry they say when there were 900 residents in the Sreme village of Čakovci, today 300 people live, and only 4, so on the fingers of one hand we still have a young man, means 4 young people who have stayed and want to deal with agriculture. There's no perspective. As far as the economic programme is concerned, I too cannot agree with what is proposed. Of the possible 100 points 60 is given on the economic programme. The economic programme highlights the technical preparation, availability of mechanisms, planned employment, innovation of planned production. When someone tells me innovation, then I remember my student days when I found the agrogeographicals in the textbooks of the article that... the lake needs to plant cotton, the Kopački rit needs to plant rice and that we're going to make the Danube-Sava channel. It was these three kind of premises that were going through. Well, I'm afraid if we banalize things now, that innovation will also lead to us getting into Kopački rit or that someone in their program will write that it would be good to plant rice and get what point on it. Baranjski peasants built houses from the top of the country, those on the elbow, bought cars, sent children to colleges, in Zagreb, Novi Sad, Budapest, they knew how to produce. They went to the spas, they went to the sea, they knew how to handle the money, they bought tractors, and now they need a professionally done economic program, nicely filled patterns, all columns to read, and preferably let it be imported into some kind of pink paper with a red bow and then it'll be 100% fine. We believe that the economic programme can give the most one-third of the points, and for some, it is even too much, and that those other elements should give more. Boding should thus be arranged to give priority to the local population, close to housing for those OPGs who have so far invested in the country they have worked for and young people, everything else leads to further devastation of the village. Something like that, that's what the others said, suits the big one. Those who are directly responsible for the devastation of the village. If I wanted to be rude, then maybe I could say what a colleague of mine told me yesterday, so it's best if we destroy all the villages because it's not worth keeping people in those villages and paying them social services. Because otherwise, villages live off the welfare system. Well, then maybe we should take them down to the sea and put them in some kind of hotel, maybe it'll be cheaper for the state and then some gun there. We welcome the extension of article 51, which says that it is extremely possible to lease on 10 years of agricultural land for those cattle farmers who do not have enough of it, by proposing that a second reading or law be installed and another sentence is said in the unit area of local self-government. Because if he gets land 30, 40 km away from his farm what's he gonna do with that land? Where will he throw the feces, where will he go for the hay? It's totally invaluable and stupid to him. And one more thing I'd like to say. What will happen to those who rent land and cannot use it? There's a lot of cases like that in our case because it's a lot of game. We've got two problems here. Croatian forests are not and won't, they don't want to fence the forest surfaces, and it should regulate game fishing. Why is that? Well, they told me that in two villages, let's just say that there are about 1,500 deer in the Kastastar municipality of Draž. It is fished about 30 to 40 pieces a year, and in the village of Podolje, a small village of one, there is no 100 inhabitants, there are over 100 hectares inexhaustible because no one will, and those who took it cannot process it. The deer destroys everything alive. That's amazing. 100 acres of land and no one will, they don't need, what the hell are they gonna do? Because when the deer get behind it, there's nothing left. It's nice to see the deer and it's nice to watch the shirts as they're fine out there in the fields, take care of the ecology, etc., but that's one serious problem. And that's where we need to find a solution. Because what happens to those who hire him, and they won't be able to process him? I think it should be regulated somehow. That would be all, and that's my humble contribution to this debate, and I hope you'll appreciate some things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100962	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100963	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here we heard a lot today, I'm not an expert on speaking maybe as much as my predecessors have said, but I'll try to make sure on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, say a few things. When we passed the Agricultural Land Act last year, not in 2013, then the Minister here in this House said that we were bringing it for the intransparency and ineffectiveness of local administration and self-government, and at the time the minister said that in 10 years it was at the disposal of 262 thousand hectares which is not enough, which is little and therefore the job continues the Agency for the Management of Agricultural Land and only here is what always makes me angry and so now the reason why we read seems to me to be 73 or 74 units of local self-government that have not achieved what they should have done. After a year and a half, we have data that last year, the Agricultural Land Management Agency leased agricultural land totaling 1442 hectares. If we multiply it by 10 years, then that agency would give 14 426 acres in 10 years, which is 5% compared to what was done in those first 10 years, which wasn't good. It's math, it's percentages. We must never allow ourselves to change the laws overnight because of a few people who do not comply with their obligations and say that we are changing them because someone has not done something. No, that someone who didn't do something and should have done it by law should be sanctioned and punished. Today, we have been talking here all day about the OPGs and the problem in which the OPGs are, for several reasons, one of the basic reasons is the first intricacies of the OPG, the inability or inability to be interested in new and sophisticated technologies that will increase some of their incomes but certainly also the reason for their stagnation and their problems. This economic programme, which is complex in the way it is complex. We can't put it in the same basket as big and small. The OPG is a small legal entity that operates and deals with agriculture unlike a large combination that has everything a large combination needs. We need to be very careful here, and we need to find the right way to really help these O.P.G.s. As regards the economic programme of the general points, employees are pinched, there are large employees, they can write in their economic programme a perfect business plan to say that they will hire in the next 5 or 10 years without 100 or 200 new workers within 3 or 4 years, learn in bankruptcy or open up bankruptcy, no one will check it out, hire it, workers have not been employed, and in the meantime little OPG is left without that land. The new employees also, a little bit more difficult to hire new people than they're going to make a big combination. Having the need for machinery, if I'm little, I have less machinery, if I'm big and I produce a lot of tons of something, then I probably have a lot of machinery. Technical technology, less distance from land more points. The headquarters or facility at the place of competition, which is longer registered on land gets multiple points. And it's on the trail of this domicile population and these 10 extra points for the domicile population that I welcome and what is good in this bill amending the law. Agriculture as a primary activity, the OPGs are engaged but the primary activity of agriculture is also for all those who receive this land. So, economic indicators that we don't even talk about how small the economic indicators are, what the economic indicators are, and that's when we put them in the same basket and that we treat them in the same way to get the necessary points in the economic programme. Organic production and number of years in the register, so these are general points. How do you solve these O.P.G.s? Minister, perhaps one suggestion for your consideration. So we've had units of local self-government that we've abolished management of that state agricultural land, we've transferred it to the Agricultural Land Management Agency, and now the ball's back again because the agency doesn't take care of those small OPGs that are in local self-government units. Every municipality and every city has a development strategy or I don't know exactly what it's called, but bonds are development strategies. On this development strategy, each municipality and every city has that item in the development of agriculture. Do municipalities or cities have a database of the number of their OPGs? Do municipalities and cities even think about it? Now let's try to transfer the ball to local self-government units that the Ministry of Agriculture tasked local self-government to the Agency for the Management of Agricultural Lands and therefore, according to the data on how many state-owned land there are in that municipality or city, say 40 or 50 or 60% of state-owned land in the municipality and that, given the number of family economies, it will be allocated to family farms for which we will then make new criteria for some economic programme and 40% of agricultural land, then we will assign this to some large ones. In this way we protect small producers, protect the small quantities we need both of them and probably little around to feed ourselves. And the Agency can also find sufficiently large areas that meet the needs of large combinations that could then carry out that activity. That combined least problem is whether it's going 200 or 300 meters south or going 200 or 300 km north or going 100 or 200 kilometers elsewhere. So I think it's a thought that we should think about, a path that we should think about precisely to protect small family farms. Because if there's room to live, we come to this for people to be in charge, that they're blocked, that 60% of the family farms have blocked their gyro accounts. They're natural persons, which means they're responsible for this whole property, they're pulling all their families for it, eventually becoming social cases where once again the state is spending on these same people. And I don't think they need social assistance because they've been able to live from their work so far, they'd know right now, they'd be most pleased if they were given space and opportunity to earn something with their hands, not to be a social case and to forgive the debts that are due to some bad policies, which have happened because of the bad policies. Just advice, family farms necessarily have to join together, that's a fact. Small family farms with what they produce are not competitive, cost of production and cost of all they need to produce these few hectares that work or liters or already what products are extremely high and expensive. We heard here today that our farmers have very bad experience with the cooperative economy, so cooperatives don't like anything. Since the vast majority of you or almost everyone you discussed today were talking about Slavonia, so your cases in Slavonia. I'm from Istria, so I'm going to be talking about a case in Istria where the family farms are extremely well and well joined in clusters where they perform together on the market, where they sell their products together, where they share the costs incurred by them. So if we look at it like this, it's actually a kind of cooperative economy, it's called something different, maybe a little more modern, we have oil clusters, we have a class of prosciuttos where very well these family farms work and where people have quite successfully and well shown that only small communities can compete on the European market and secrete good results and their products by quality marketing, well-designed policy and good marketing, sell on the European market. So it's one piece of advice for all OPGs in Slavonia, I know it's terribly difficult, but it's not impossible and if they join together no matter how unpleasant experience they have, joining everyone small at this point is the only solution and necessary that they can even place their products in one more quality and better way. the more so, if they have secured sales and the insured customer gets additional points on this economic programme. So that's one of the pluses in this whole story. Labourists will support this bill because it has made certain changes, and here I am extremely glad that this water compensation has been lifted, and I am glad to be encouraged for young people. Since I am the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, I will give you a proposal from the Ministers that women can be encouraged. So if a woman is a bearer of the family holding, I don't see why she wouldn't be given any extra points. So it's all up to you to think about it because otherwise, you know, the sub-represented sex is encouraged and in these cases, and I don't see any reason why it wouldn't be here in winning, or in several major points, if it's a family holding and it can exercise the right to rent agricultural land. So we support the law, he has changes, I'd like to respect and take into account all the suggestions you've heard today, there have been good suggestions. I hope by the second reading we have an even better bill. And I would like to take the opportunity here to commend the Director of the Agricultural Land Management Agency where I have received enormous commendation on her account and willingness to cooperate precisely with the Association of Family Agricultural Economics for personally thinking that she is one of the only perhaps, one of the better ones, if not the only time to really get into the problem in the way of conversation, listening, putting problems on the table, analysing these problems, and by common agreement and I think in this case the Ministry of Agriculture is the goal of being as few dissatisfied as possible, of being as satisfied as possible and that farmers really live from their work and that here they are grateful to us and then to them for all that they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100964	The replica of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100965	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Tyrelli, I'm glad to go from behind, and I'm glad you mentioned women, just as president of our Committee on Gender Equality. Your debate was constructive and with a lot of good suggestions, and I would say that you've made an excellent determination of some critical points within both this law and agriculture, and I would have talked in my own replicas about the lady director who's ahead of us, and now I think she's with us and that it's finally the endings caught in the hands and that some work results are finally being seen. I just wanted to tell you, there are local meanings of cities and municipalities, they have, it's a record of the O.P.G. I can say about the city of Zagreb as well we have our own register, so we know how many cattle there are, how many hectares of land there are dealing with vegetables, fruit growing and so on and on the basis of these data can be worked and we have done a lot of programs. And you said really well, that I know these clusters too in Istria and the thing is really in one part of this whole farm story is local administration and cities and people who really want and who can, and for all of it is for Istria and for most of the other cities and for most of the other municipalities. The basis was all that was done, no matter what anyone said politics, but everything that has been done to date and what seems to be back three years and which will continue to seem of course, that they may have a basis for some good work and association. Nothing's simple and you're good...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100966	Time. Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100967	Thank you, colleagues, twilight on the replica. Yes, nothing is simple and everything is going on, so nothing can be expected to be done and solved overnight. I honestly think that this practice that the principal has shown is a good way to solve the problem and I think it's talking about the way we have to work. We have to simply connect in systems because at this point it's necessary. Neither is the ministry here for itself, nor is the agency there for itself, nor is the OPG there for itself. So we're all related parties, we all depend on each other, and that's why we have to say business partners, and when we hear here's good practice, and when people praise it and people who have problems are satisfied with the answers they get, then it's a bingo and a win-win combination as well as a good practice for the next. As for when we talk about clusters and connecting, yes, it's important to have a vision and a goal. I think that every municipality and city precisely because of the strategy it is working in that strategy has some vision of what it wants with agriculture and what it wants with the OPGs. I said really in the best sense since we talked about the problems of small OPG today, they're not satellites that travel on their own and I don't know where they're going to hit, which rock they're going to disappear to. The municipality, city and local self-government and regional self-government must have a development strategy and must know exactly about these family agricultural entities what they expect them to do and what they must do. So it's planning, planning must be on one side and the other. So it turns out that this OPG is opening up, too, so people don't know, so then he doesn't know if the OPG is going to do it, so he's going to d.d., and then somehow we're going to get into trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100968	Time. The last debate will be the individual Franje Lucića.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100969	Thank you very much. I really don't know what to say after this four-hour debate on the Law of Amendments and Agriculture Supplements when I have to speak in front of an empty assembly as a representative in the Croatian Parliament for someone's press, and I don't know who the minister will explain all this together if we get up and go because you show so much interest in agriculture in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, especially in the Ministry of Agriculture. You force all these people together to force them out of the assembly with your repressive program of four hours, at 7:00 p.m. you put such an important law on the debate where the simple MPs go, where they're gone. Just because you don't want to talk in the morning and you don't want people to know the truth and see how you treat agriculture and how you want to destroy and finish the village and farmers. There was not enough for you, Mr. Minister, to come to Mr. Siekierski, the President of the European Parliament who is just representing agriculture and you have given him your promise and support in his efforts and thoughts and his resolution, which he has just written on the basis of small rural economies. How and how he, as president and as European Union, see small agricultural economies in the future in the European Union. It wasn't enough for you, you gave him support but false support. He was just telling you that only small farms can survive if the state stands behind them and the ministry stands behind them. What we do as a state and as a ministry to survive right now these little people whose lives mean agriculture because he has no other profession. How and how to keep exactly young people on agriculture from going to European countries, to overseas countries. And like you, I repeat once again whether you have any feeling that you are a man from Slavonia, and at the same time with this proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture and you personally as a minister do not allow people to live in the country and survive. You, Mr. Minister, with your amendments here and the additions to this law, in which you have changed 42 articles of 85, you will not achieve anything, because you leave the score as old, and here you have heard a few people who advise you and who say don't do it, because that way you will simply shut down this little farm that's left in Croatia. Well, Mr. Minister, whether or not you're told it's not enough to appeal to these people. You have now listened to the gentleman of Slavonia and Baranja. I come from Požega-Slavon County. People from Vukovar-Srijem County spoke. So we united Slavonia and Baranja. This is where my colleague spoke from Virovitica County, so isn't it enough for our appeals to save people who depend on agriculture? Isn't an appeal enough to say, so give the young man a boost and give him 20 points just to get into agricultural production. Don't limit it to have machines because you said yourself that the past government destroyed farmers by buying machines, and you're doing it again now. You write in this law, it says here, you wrote it, and we say put them together in machine rings, especially those who think about fruit growing. Yes, Mr. Minister, you can laugh but you laugh at your law that will cause great harm to the Croatian people. Yes, you must be aware of that. Not enough for you, Croatia has joined the EU. We spoke then, let's not get on our knees, let's not have to be beggars in that EU. And I told you the other day, and now I'm telling you again all the funds you plan to withdraw from the EU based on rural development or any other measure, you're not going to have anyone to give it to, because those farmers who are today, who have certain activities, are not going to exist tomorrow. They will disappear, and it will disappear precisely because you treat them like that and you do not implement the policy that is being implemented in the EU, to keep the agricultural producer and to encourage exactly the new one who wants to do the same production tomorrow. You're also bringing in something in this law that we've shown you a few times and talked about. The land that is abandoned, which should be disembarked instead of encouraging the one to whom you will give it to two years, you are reducing from two years to one year at the same time, wondering whether this man has the financial capacity to disembark that land. Then you say that the contraction and that wooden mass of sotim should be available to Croatian forests. And look at the absurd. This land was owned by the Croatian forests and the Croatian forests gave up that land just to bring in some culture where they said, so we are not interested, it is not a wooden mass for us. It's a chica classic, and you're saying that this man who's got to rent it to the Croatian forests again to have them have wood mass. And I said that to your deputies, ma'am, so you don't even know that these are chicarets, and today these squirms are convulsing with modern machinery. There's nothing to do here, and you keep pushing it back towards the Croatian forests. And to you as the Minister especially who you are in the Council of Croatian Waters, I must also say that stupid law. Stupid law, listen to me well, stupid law that you don't see and you don't want to change it says like this: And not a single water industry in the Republic of Croatia that deals with the deforestation of those trees by the rivers and the water streams, where you also order Croatian waters to come, excuse Croatian forests to come and take care of the wood mass in no case has it ever happened that Croatian forests have taken over such activity. Because what they say, they tell us what we need willows, where we will sodom, so it is a product that we do not care about. And you know what's going on? Those contractors who cramp bury it in the ground. Imagine they're burying it in a country where we're doing a lot of damage. Well, we better be the poor one who's got nothing to warm up to. So they bury it in the ground. And you are now again in this law talking about how it should be made available again, so again to the Croatian forests. We're going to complicate our lives, and they're not going to use it because there's no wooden mass there for their needs. What's also important in this law is letting the country borrow, I agree for 10 years. It tells those who don't have land. So what did those cows live on until they didn't have land? This is getting ready for a little bigger players and a little bigger systems, and we'll be alive and see who you give that country to. But you need to know that we're going to call you out in public when you assign a country, and we already know who it might be. So the law that once again encourages a large economy as it is driven through the score. It's good here, too. You said you'd release the ponds from the water fees. So release all those who do watering, and release them also from the water. Why just ponds? Why just ponds? And in the end, you start all the public tender procedures for the land you've called to apply a new law because these people aren't guilty of breaking into this old law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100970	The final minutes of this debate belong to Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100971	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, when I came to this High House below 4, 4.5 hours is the bottom line about the law and I wouldn't be wrong, although I am a colleague, if I wasn't in the government, I would be sitting here in the benches and being more or less critical or making more or less good suggestions, but I'm actually sad when we lose 4.5 hours and in the discussions I hear very little actually constructive suggestions and remarks that apply exactly to the articles of the law or we hear good ideas that could possibly improve it. Much more what I heard today was actually a demagogy and even though I am not particularly offensive or sensitive but I am inclined to actually, as my fellow Roman told me to interpret most of today's debates, especially from you board president, by assaulting myself and the Ministry of Agriculture. I will not use my 30 minutes because what I heard today with my colleagues and colleagues will be analyzed, see what we can install and send to the second proposal to the Government as soon as possible, and then to another reading in this House. But I have to answer some of the things that have been repeated here over and over again and they're not correct and they're not right or they're actually misinformation. And maybe because of that, first of all, I don't choose when it's my turn. I've been in the cabinet since 8:00 this morning, I've had a series, a series of meetings, and I've been waiting for him to invite me here to come up here to defend or present his law and answer your questions and listen to a quality debate. Sometimes my laws come sooner, sometimes later, but I am not the one as a member of the government who can choose when he will come, and even less with the President of the Parliament or vice presidents will deliberately figure it out or arrange it to be at a time when, but given what you have said, Mr. Lucic may be better because of your personal dignity of the parliamentary representative that he has not heard the wider circle of people because as chairman of the parent committee in this House you should have had more information. And even if you have them and you say what you're saying, then you're deliberately telling lies and misinformation, which offends me personally. You mentioned 85 articles, 42 changes. No changes but changes and additions. Of the 42 articles in this law that we have sent, the good part is actually new provisions that did not exist at all in the law and where we went to improve the existing law. Only part refers to amendments to existing articles. When we're talking about availability, and I'm going to fill you in on that math, we're constantly forgetting 53,000 acres of temporary land available for five years that we put in plus what we went to for direct sale, plus what went to the lease. We're talking about over 55 or closer to 60 thousand acres. We're talking about 17,000 acres that were placed in the competition and at a certain stage are processing. By April of this year, we will have issued solutions and these areas will be for all these hectares entered in the ARCOD and in the new reference year and the reference period for next year's support. If we had read the basic law better and prepared ourselves then we would have seen what the novelties were and where we went to strengthen the situation of the domicile family farms through these changes, where we gave additional points for the domicile OPGs, for young farmers and for the OPGs who had so far been available and the possibility of using state land exclusively through certificates or for form 2. Those patterns have been given to them long before. We have this way through putting into function in temporary use, and especially through these changes and additions, through a score of 10% of the possible 100 strengthened the position of these OPGs. When we talk about the economic programme, you have very well mentioned the specifics that are being poked into the economic programme and that already in the current calculation, this domicillivity and younger education that we need to organise quality agricultural production and which we insist on. All those positive provisions of the common agricultural policy, which relate in some way to the promotion of young farmers, have been installed in all strategic documents, we are talking about a new support system for 2015-2020 in the rural development programme, but also here. Through these measures, we have actually gone in a way to make it possible to refresh or facilitate the transfer from the old OPG carriers to their descendants who work with them because in this way, through the rural development programme through measures but also through the possibility of obtaining agricultural land by transferring the OPG to younger members of their sons who work with them will have the opportunity to get more points. All the time, unfortunately, you forget that these changes have in some way strengthened the score of the program or the application for a lease tender in fact the position of the domicillical OPG. There were some proposals here that were really constructive, and we're going to compare that. I'm glad that in the debate there was also a commendation of the work of my associates, I stress my associates, because everything the Land Agency does, what the principal does and her team is part of my team and ministry. So I don't see the specifics or the possibility or means of communication where you use every opportunity to hand over Minister Jakovina and the Ministry, and to single out only certain segments. I think it's incorrect, on the shield and under the shield, all together as a team leading these reforms and the changes we've said. You are talking about a lack of public debate in this law which is very incorrect and very incorrect because we have conducted a broad public debate, and even to you as chairman of committees and colleagues on the board, we have presented this law for a month and a half before we have referred it to the procedure that will be amended, we have initiated a session and colleagues of parliamentary deputies we have presented to the whole, in fact, the whole projection of changes to these laws so that you as people who, in part of the procedure of the law, will possibly further improve it but then raise your hand by or against that law. In any case, everyone who has been constructively discussing the law thanks, I hope that we will certainly well analyse your proposals, most of what we think will improve the existing law we will respect and very soon send it back to the government and meet here in the Parliament. But once again I appeal to all of you that, in general, all the good things that we've been trying to build into this law and speed up the land availability procedure, you don't take out and turn it upside down, or you show it bad. I would be happy if we actually had an information system with an accurate list of agricultural areas in the Republic of Croatia by municipalities, cities and counties. I heard here today in discussions that units of local self-government are marginalized which is completely incorrect because no particulars are actually part of a commission that decides on the availability in competitions but not in that part of the financial allocation of the leases we haven't changed. And I will only point out that in 2013 with 50% leases going into the budget of local self-government units raised it to 65% to further motivate municipalities and cities to react more quickly and promptly to agricultural land. We don't have, and most local self-government units don't have adequate bases, no land, no production, no O.P.G., or their producers, which isn't good enough, we don't have enough knowledge of the need to bring together a producer group of organisations, cooperatives, clusters talking about participants who come to the board you're calling. We have hundreds and hundreds of associations, I'm very sorry that no association or any of these good examples of clusters and associated manufacturers from Istria or from other parts of the country, we have excellent examples and cooperatives from Varazdin County, Krapina and these others are not called, you always call the same, you call your players who will use the opportunity to speak negatively about Minister Jakovina and the work of this ministry at the the thematic committees. I am very disappointed, I was expecting, in fact, and now you are calling on the chairman of the Committee of Parliament, the Committee on Agriculture, to have a little more adequate information on how the common agricultural policy works and decision-making is made then you would know that decisions are made on the commission and on the Council of Ministers. Parliament plays a crucial role in bringing a reform package with 14 out of 20 in this case a financial framework. All important operational matters are brought to the level and to the Council's relation as well as to us in the Government. You can muddle around me this way and insult me all you want, you're the chairman of the parent board and I will personally come whenever I can, when I can't send my deputy because under that level it's not your turn to have someone come on board, but I'm particularly sad if you at the theme sessions don't let my deputy rephrase, but to speak. I think it's terribly incorrect, that's what my colleagues in the opposition today confirmed that the last time I saw it was like that. From now on, every time I come here and every time I come to your sessions that we hope to discuss, at least you'll agree with colleagues who have a majority on that committee, and not by any means invite them, but because of the level of communication at these thematic sessions, I'll try to be there every time, but I hope you'll get better prepared, and not in this way on a flat-rate basis, demagoguely talk about some things that don't stand. Agriculture is an honorable job from which a very large number of people in the Republic of Croatia live with their hard work. I'm not saying that we've done everything right in these three years, but we work, we work and we make decisions. I don't have a magic wand, I can't do everything overnight, neither I nor my team but we work and we stand behind our results but also behind our mistakes. It can't be said that we're not, that we don't have a relationship and that we're not in line with the common agricultural policy, with everything that's strategic, which is young, that's even development and rural areas, that's sustainable development of agriculture, that's the need to bring in new knowledge and technology, to bring together agricultural producers, to use funds all that we really need in our agriculture. If you speak and criticise the ministry for real failures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100972	Replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100973	You, Mr. Minister, really live in another world. To speak such incorrect information, I, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, sent a letter to cities, municipalities and counties and therefore informed mayors, mayors and mayors to come to the meeting. And because your officials don't come, they don't care about the Agriculture Act, you have to ask them. I said openly at the board meeting call whoever you want from the associations, they're appropriate to create a law, not you're the only one in the ministry. And as for your deputy, if you speak as she does and I have not given you my word, neither will you speak, so you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100974	The reply to the replica of the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100975	Well, Agent Lucic, you have been referring to producer associations, I have not talked about representatives of municipalities, cities and counties, but to the Association of Producers that you are calling again for meetings of the parent board of your choice. I would like hundreds of associations of producers of which we have some model or well-assembled, organised, who see their associations as interested groups transform into producer groups, organisations, cooperatives, clusters and do so successfully have the opportunity to come to that parent board. Not always the same, not those who part-timely represent only their own interests, or pardon party interests on your line. My colleagues, I have consulted my colleagues who are members, who are members of the parent board, you have never actually done a consultation in some document and subject matter that you call and even less about the associations you call here. Use the opportunity at the thematic sessions...... Yes, I will come, with great pleasure I will come, and I will answer your every lie and falsely. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: Peace!]] It's an election year, but I won't let you defile my work and the work of my ministry and my colleagues. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100976	Shame on you. I'm closing the debate. We will vote...... Please calm down, calm down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-02-18-0.u100977	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, First Reading, P.Z. No. 790. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please vote on this conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 98 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 6 votes against, have reached the proposed conclusion.
