ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96142	I wish you my colleagues and colleagues a good day and open the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, Vice-President and Vice-Presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing our "Beautiful" anthem. I invite you now to pay tribute to all the fallen Croatian defenders, civilians and victims of war, as I do to all of Croatia. - A minute of silence, let them celebrate and thank you! Your colleagues and colleagues received the minutes from the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. I'm asking, do you have any objections to the record? If not, we have adopted the minutes of the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. Now we're going to move to the session agenda. With the invitation, you received a draft agenda, and now you have the final draft agenda on the benches. In the final draft agenda, the president placed 10 new points: 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Credit Act with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 785; 2. Proposal for a Law on the recovery of credit institutions and investment companies with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 783; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on credit institutions with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 784; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 782; 5. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 730; 6. Proposal for a Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period 2015 to 2020; 7. Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide information on the intention to grant concessions and award concessions on the maritime good for the construction and economic use of the beach in part as flour, and for the purpose of the realization of the tourist development project "Kupari" on the location of Kukari 1 in the municipality of Zupa Dubrovnik; 8. Proposal for a 2015 Annual Implementation Plan for the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia; 9.a) Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials (b) Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources; 10. Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unless the parent body or the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system or the Committee on Law require that the law be discussed in the first reading. The laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed and bearing the P.Z.E. marking. they are under points 6, 8, 14, 15 and 16 of the final proposal of the law. About the Agriculture Act, P.Z.E. No. The 774 under paragraph 6 of the final draft agenda of the Legislative Committee has requested that the law be discussed in the first reading. Since the government accepts that the law goes into two readings, then there is no need to vote. In order to adopt an emergency procedure, the laws under the provisions of the final draft agenda are proposed on the 5th, 7th, 9, 10th, 11th and 18th. These are the proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Credit Act with the Final Bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 785, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 778, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budget Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z. No. Seventy-seven, four. Proposal for a law on the internal control system in the public sector with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 773, 5. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Turkmenistan on the avoidance of Double Taxation of Income Taxes with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 771, and 6. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government on cooperation in the protection of natural and other disasters with the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z. No. 775. On the urgency of the procedure for point 25. We decided at the final draft of the law at the last session, so today we will not decide. I also note that the Legislative Committee has requested that the debate on the Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector P.Z. No. 773 spent in the first reading. The government has accepted the proposal that the law goes into two readings and there is no need to vote on it. Now I ask if any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There isn't. This can determine that the agenda, that the points relating to the emergency procedure, are being absorbed. There have been no written objections to the draft agenda sent by the president with the call for a session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 225(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Any of the representatives object to the inclusion in the agenda of the following points: 1. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 730, 2. Proposal for a anti-corruption strategy for the period from 2015 to 2020, 3. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on notification of the intention to grant concessions and award concessions on the maritime good for the construction and economic use of the beach in the part of the Catastrian Municipality of Brašin for the purpose of the realization of the tourist development project KUPARI at the location of Kukari 1 in the Municipality of Župa Dubrovačka, 4. Proposal for a Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and 5.a. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources and under (b) Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the members of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources and 6. Report on regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. No objections. I hereby establish that the agenda has been established. In accordance with Article 228, the whole agenda should now be read, so in practice, which we already have, I suggest not to do. Thank you very much. The agenda is set out in the way it is proposed except that the laws under points 6 and 10 will be in the first reading not in the emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96143	We will now use the usual practice in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, second reading, P.Z. No. 691. Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers – Labour Party; 2. Final proposal of the Law on Election Units to elect representatives to the Croatian Parliament, second reading, P.Z. No. 692, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour – Labour Party; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 786; 4th Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, First Reading, P.Z. No. 790; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on socially encouraged housing, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 787; 6th Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fields of Special State Care, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 789; 7th draft law supplementing the Law on representativeness of associations, employers and trade unions with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 788; 8. Final proposal of the Law on mortuary activity, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 733; 9th Proposal of the Museum Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 791; 10. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, which determines firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by an urgent procedure, note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and this is the law under point 3 of the proposal to supplement the agenda. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There is. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96144	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, since we know that on the nose of the unit of local and regional self-government, they made budgets at the end of last year because of the amendments to the law, it is not clear to us that this has been so marked and necessaryly changed in the Law on areas of special state care that they will have no consequences for the budget of the units of local and regional self-government as well as for the state budget that this law would have to go according to an urgent procedure, and that it could not have been discussed a month ago when the laws of this topic were discussed? Also, the draft amending and supplementing laws on socially encouraged housing, which has changed so much that it could not have been adopted before the budget was adopted? Because if this law changes, if the funds are not provided, what is the question of what will be the effect of its application? We therefore oppose the adoption of these two laws by emergency procedure. And as the emergency procedure seemed, we had the best chance to see the day before yesterday when we discussed the Budget Act that we put on the agenda at the beginning of the 12th month to be in an emergency procedure, and then we discuss it on January 28th, and the final point says that the law applies from January 1st.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96145	Thank you very much. Now we will resolve it in the usual democratic way. But before that, I ask that we determine the quorum. Please let's see how many of us are there. Well 108 MPs, we have enough representatives in the Croatian Parliament to be able to decide all things. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social and Encouragement Building P.Z. No. 787? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes are 81 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 23 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social-Incentive Stantage P.Z. No. 787. Secondly, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas of Special State Care, P.Z. No. 789? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes are 77 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 26 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure included the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas of Special State Care, P.Z. No. 789. Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. The agenda is complemented by colleagues and colleagues, respected MPs and representatives. a on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a Accounting Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 792 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the rental and purchase of business space, first reading, P.Z. No. 793 1. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, second reading, P.Z. No. 722 Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP 1. Proposal for a Decision on the basis of a request for a national referendum on the regulation of the issue of the award of Croatian highways in concessions, the Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system 1. A report on the work and implementation of the supervision of the legality of HRT's work for 2013 A year. Six. Proposal for the work of the European Commission for 2015 That would end with a proposal for new agenda points. Do any of the representatives have objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed agendas? There isn't. I find there are no objections. Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs are thus complemented by the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96147	Now, on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda with the following points: 1. Proposal for a law on a civil protection system, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 796; 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the General Tax Code, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z., No. 795; 3. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the list of physical damages with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Under point 1, we have the law, P.Z.E. which we will not vote on in our Rules of Procedure on the urgency of the proceedings, i.e. the first reading. Do I ask if any of the MPs have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure to the law under paragraphs 2 and 3? A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm guessing this is the Jubilee 50th Amendment of the Tax Laws in the three-year term of this government. I don't know what happened and what's so necessary if we're going to use the provisions of the Emergency Rules of Procedure, which was not known in the 12th month. The second thing, we keep talking about investment, you know what it means for colleagues and colleagues in the second, third month to change tax laws? So people got into the business year with something, you're changing their rules about how they're going to do business and how taxes are going to be charged. So let's not make a joke out of this House and let's not make a joke out of the tax legislation of the Republic of Croatia, so I'm asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96149	Any other objections? There isn't. Then we'll approach the vote. Please determine the quorum. Score. A total of 119 MPs are present, so we can approach the vote. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the General Tax Code, P.Z. No. 795? Please join the vote. I find that with 78 votes for, five abstentions, 33 against a decision on the urgency of the procedure. That's what we added to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96150	Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament are the usual procedure, Friday at 12 pm. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I would like to propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a Insurance Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.799. 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Police Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.798. 1. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on a National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and other cruel inhuman or devastating proceedings or punishment, second reading, P.Z.BR.717. 1. Final proposal of the Agriculture Act, second reading, P.Z.E.BR.790. 1. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, second reading, P.Z.BR.758. 1. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship, second reading, P.Z.BR.759. 1. Final proposal Law amending and supplementing the Law on Heritage, second reading, P.Z.BR.768. 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.BR.804. 1. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an International Tropical Tree Agreement 2006 with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.800. 1. Proposal for a Transport Control Act from precious objects of precious metal with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.805. 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on Amendments and Supplements to the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the Split port infrastructure projects with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.803. 1. Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on HRT, first reading, P.Z.BR. 797. Proposer Branko Hrg. 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on child allowance, first reading, P.Z.BR.801. Proposer Mladen Novak. 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act, first reading, P.Z.BR.802. Proposing representative Sunchana Glavak. 1. Report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 1 July 2013 to 15 July 2014. 1. The proposal for a conclusion on the suspension of the executive procedures and mirages initiated by the Austrian banks of Raiffeis's group. Proposer is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party. 1. Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of a request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Representative Đurđica Sumrak. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws according to an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and these are the laws under points 1 and 8 of the proposal to supplement the agenda. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? Yeah. Dear Davorin Mlakar, dear colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96151	I thank you, Mr. President, for saying in your introduction that I will ask you for an exception, because I don't think our Rules of Procedure will interfere. Under point 1 of the supplement, you proposed that an emergency procedure be adopted, the Insurance Act which contains this designation of alignment with the European Union. We've only just received this law. It is a law that regulates extremely extensive matter in Article 464. Since it is an insurance issue, I have failed to verify that this is a alignment with all EU directives and I cannot be sure that it is not, but because of the seriousness of matter, I do not think that anything crosses the Croatian Parliament that, instead of harmonising with EU legislation, we do this law in two readings so that we can discuss such a large matter here at all, so I suggest that no matter what the P.Z.E. label bears. Let's discuss it in two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96152	There are other objections. Dear Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96153	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would be very interested in an explanation, which is why it is envisaged as an emergency procedure for the adoption of the draft law on the approval of the 2006 International Tropical Tree Agreement. It seems to me that the motionary, and this is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has far, far greater problems and far greater needs for a hasty solution to the problem than to confirm something about tropical wood from 2006, if I do not want to hear an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96154	Thank you, too. So there's no objections, there's a demand for an explanation. I can't give it to you because the promoter has put in a motion for an emergency procedure. But it makes sense to me if it's from 2006 that it should have been brought by urgency long ago, by emergency procedure. And at the request of our colleagues, we cannot really decide because it is a proposal for harmonisation with the European Union. If this is the case in the context of the debate, we may have a discussion, the proposal to open another reading. So we have no objections that are in line with the Rules of Procedure. ... The tropical tree? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, yeah, okay, that's what I get, that's clear. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But we still have a colleague, Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96155	As far as tropical wood is concerned, it'll be easy. The fact is, that's the initiative we heard from 2006. So the HDZ government didn't think it was supposed to be in the emergency procedure either, so here's what we thought of in 2015. But I'm worried about this Retirement Insurance Act, P.Z.E. 804. Since I haven't had a chance to read it, I would really ask for a vote on that agenda point. And I think it should go to the very least in the regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96156	Comrade Cain, we've settled this with the Rules of Procedure and it's not possible to do this now. We're going to decide on the request of the esteemed vice president of the House of Zeljko Rainer. I ask that, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law attesting the International Tropical Tree Agreement of 2006, P.Z. No. 800. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just give it to me. I read it, I read it. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 78 votes in favour and 1 vote is abstentioned and 34 votes against are included in the agenda under the urgent procedure of the 2006 International Tropical Tree Agreement Confirmation Act, P.Z. No. 800. I read a fellow Reiner who he is. Okay. Yes, please, now does any of the MPs and advocates have an objection to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points right now? There isn't. There's no objection at any of the other points. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs, the agenda is complemented by this. We're going to make a decision on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96157	Member States shall ensure that the information referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 226 of Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Time Act, mandatory holidays of mobile workers and recording devices in road transport, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 809; 2. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public provision by insurance companies, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 808; 3. Proposal for a Decision on discharge of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, the appointment of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, the Proposal of the President of the Croatian Parliament 4.a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, (b) Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency; 5.a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Council for Education and Education, (b) Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the National Council for Education and Education; 6. Proposal for a single methodological and technical rules for the production of acts adopted by the Croatian Assembly, Proposer of the Committee on Law; 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the State Election Commission, first reading, P.Z. No. 806, MP for Jadranka Kosor; 8. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, first reading, P.Z. No. 807, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour-Stranka Work; 9. Proposal for a conclusion on how to regulate the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, proposing 54 representatives of the Croatian Parliament; 10. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of the law bearing the P.Z.E. mark is not limited to the urgency of the procedure. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It's the law under point 1 of the drafts of this agenda. Any of the representatives have any objection to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Law on the collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public charges by insurance undertakings, P.Z. No. 808? There isn't. Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? It doesn't either. That's what we added to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96158	We will now check the number of MPs in the Assembly of the Croatian Assembly at 12:00 p.m. on Friday, and then propose a supplementation of the agenda. Can we determine the condition? Thank you very much. There are enough representatives present that we can decide all things. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 810; Proposer of the Club of Representatives of SDP and HNS in the Croatian Parliament. 2. Proposal for a Decision declaring the day of 26 September to the National Day of People with Multiple Sclerosis. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP also. 3. Proposal for a Consumer Bank Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 811; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 812; 5. Information on the implementation of the pre-banking arrangements procedure under the Financial Business Act and between 1.10.2012 and 31.12.2014. Proposer Club of Independent Left-handed Representatives. Six. Report by the Advocate General on human rights of persons with mental disorders in psychiatric institutions in the framework of the National Prevention Mechanism in 2014. 7. a Proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of the Competition Protection Council. b. Proposal for a decision appointing the President of the Competition Protection Council. 8. Proposal for a decision to resolve the work of members of the HRT Supervisory Board appointed by the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by emergency procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, this is the law under point 4. proposed amendments to the agenda. Does any of the representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, P.Z.BR. 810 proposed by SDP and HNS representatives clubs? It is. Dear Representative Kulusic Ante.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96159	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the HDZ Club, we oppose the urgent procedure of adopting amendments to the Sport Act for the reason that the ministry has been working on the Sport Act for almost a year now. And now, on behalf of the SDP and HNS clubs, the ministry is allotting everything that has been done and making a proposal for an association, a proposal for a Croatian sport. This is not good to bring in an emergency procedure because this proposal is a proposal for first-class clubs where amateur clubs, amateur athletes, football players are nowhere to be mentioned, not any other sport but just football. I don't think this is good, this is supposed to be the Law on Professional Clubs, I don't think the Parliament should bring it. Croatian athletes deserved the right law because they made the promotion of the Republic of Croatia more than all of us politicians in Croatia combined as many of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96160	Thank you very much. I understand, everyone else understood. So we'll check it out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You're looking for a vote, of course. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, P.Z.BR. 810 proposed by SDP and HNS representatives clubs in the Croatian Parliament? Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes on the agenda are included in the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, P.Z.BR. 810. Please do any of the MPs object to including other proposed agenda points? There isn't. The esteemed fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs are hereby updated.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96161	Member States shall ensure that the information referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 226 of Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Report of the mandate-immunity commission. 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the shortfall of salary rights based on the achievement of years of employment with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 816. 1. Proposal for a law on the short payment of certain material rights to employees in public services, with the Final Bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 815. 1. And compared to what we've divided into benches, we're going to add up to point 4. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, second reading, P.Z. No. In 790, the deadlines for the allocation of agricultural land were set. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Which of the representatives has objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws under points 2 and 3? A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, points two and three did not meet the conditions set out in Article 204 of our Rules of Procedure in order to be in an emergency procedure. But there's something else. We, by proposing a bill under point 2, are repealing a regulation that we have not yet discussed in this House of Commons. Therefore, on 31.12., the Government adopted a Regulation amending the Law on the shortfall of the right to increase salaries on the basis of the work experience achieved. 31.12. brought, 31.12. published in the National paper sent to the Croatian Parliament 14.1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96163	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96164	No, I'm asking you nicely. Then I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96165	So you're explaining now why...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96166	No, no, I'm just explaining Madam Vice President...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96167	You're discussing an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96168	No, so I explain the emergency procedure that Article 204 does not satisfy the provisions of Article 204. My colleagues and colleagues, under item 26 of the current agenda, are talking about the report, on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal powers. In that report, you have a regulation that we need to repeal by this law. So are we really going to let ourselves be here in the House for the sake of fools and to do whatever they want, by the more we lay down a regulation that deprives us of the rights for a few dozen thousand civil servants? Well, at least if they are already denied some right deserves to be discussed, because there was no debate in this House about the first three months of abolishing these rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96169	Gold shower, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96170	We are also opposed to points two and three to go according to an emergency procedure primarily because it turns out that the government lost space and time when in this way it points to the parliamentary procedure of this law. She held her session, a regular session Wednesday, to refer these two laws to the parliamentary procedure Thursday at a telephone session, which is inappropriate. And the area concerned by these laws is regulated by collective agreements. The unions have neither tried to talk nor tried to resolve this area by collective agreements. That's why I don't think there are any conditions for these laws to be discussed by an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96171	Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96172	To a colleague, point 3 literally reads the draft Law on the short payment of certain material rights to employees in public services with a final draft of the law. And as we've heard, unfortunately, we haven't seen that bill yet. On Wednesday, the government discussed it, agreed on an emergency session on the phone, and it is likely that during today, a draft of this law may have come to the Assembly. I think it would be a good idea to have someone explain to us what these are material rights that will be denied to public service employees. On the side that they're probably the most privileged jobs, but no unions, no
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96173	My colleague Cain, you will say that in the debate. Now explain why you object to the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96174	So I object to the urgency of the procedure with a little explanation that would be directed to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96175	Thank you very much, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96176	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here we also oppose the urgency of the procedure in these two laws, or these two cases, because it is a problem which certainly requires a session of the Economic and Social Council, a conversation with the social partners and an attempt to agree with interested social partners, which are primarily trade unions. Such practice has been in the past, of course, that the Government has the right to propose the shortfall of certain rights and, of course, to take care of the deficit, to propose various measures, but before that, the Government is obliged to comply with good customs and social partnership which is ultimately one of the values and the Croatian Constitution to talk to the trade unions and try to reach an agreement. We suggest regular procedure, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96177	We're going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. Please determine the quorum. We have a quorum, 100 MPs present. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law amending the Law on the shortfall of the right to increase wages on the basis of the years of employment, P.Z. No. 816? Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of the votes, 73 for, 1 abstention, 25 against the urgency of the procedure in Law No. 816. I now ask that we vote on the urgency of the procedure for the Law on the short payment of certain material rights to employees in public services, P.Z. No. 815. Please approach the vote. I find that the majority of the votes, 75 for and 25 against the 815 law, have identified the urgency of the procedure. Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. That's what we've added to the agenda. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. Before we move to the agenda, I would like to say that on March 26th, the "Violent Day" is marked, the day when a purple color is shown worldwide by solidarity with people who have epilepsy. I see some of my colleagues took this badge. A colleague of Caine's?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96716	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask a question about the currency clauses of our banks on loans to our citizens, not only for the Swiss franc but also for the euro, but it is my obligation to ask not about the debts of our citizens towards banks, but about the debt of the Republic of Croatia to the citizens of Serbian nationality, which in the 1990s, and later on, in areas under the control of the government, lost their dwellings. And not according to the Law of Obligation, nor later under the Law on Compensation of damages caused by terrorist acts and public demonstrations, nor under the Law on Reconstruction, did these citizens get what the state was supposed to provide them with, which means protecting their property. There's a lot of them. Only in the area of Bjelovar around 800, in the area around Zadar around 700, in the wider area of the Republic of Croatia can that figure reach up to 10 thousand. Mr. Prime Minister, what does the Government think about creating after so many years a legal framework under which these citizens who are still very few, but who seek their rights to protect their property will allow either compensation or adequate renewal?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96717	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96718	Dear Representative, unfortunately or fortunately, we have to bring about balances and settle debts and sins that have been committed long before us. Croatia was attacked, there was all sorts of things going on, but first of all it was attacked, defended, defended as it knew and could. But always according to all of your citizens, so the question is not whether you live in the city or in the country or live in some hacienda alone, but whether you are a citizen of this country, you will be equal to all your citizens. And we're gonna do everything we can to help people. It takes patience, not wisdom, but patience. Because with us wisdom is usually another word for panicous fear of action and action. I am not for such wisdom, but for patience and we are actively working on it. And I know it's for those who have lost anything, who are just so-called. Little people are hard to wait for, but I pray for understanding and patience. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96719	Answer comment, colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96720	I thank Mr. Prime Minister for your reply, and I would like to say two things. First, it is true, we all know who it is and how Croatia is and how its citizens are attacked. However, we also need to know how citizens who have not attacked anyone have been attacked, who have lived peacefully with their neighbours and who have also been attacked by those whom the state has not prevented or even allowed them to carry out these attacks. They were not individual, but unfortunately in many cases they were systematic. I understand that this government needs to settle these debts and that politically it has no responsibility in this respect, but of course it is the responsibility of the state and it is a debt of the state. And we believe that citizens will have patience, but we also hope that you will have the strength to resolve this issue in the way that justice and how the expectation of citizens actually requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96721	My colleagues and colleagues have asked here, given the order, the clubs have given certain changes according to the Rules of Procedure, but they have not been carried out on screen, so I ask for a little patience, it will be settled. The second question is asked by counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96722	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm going to refer my question to Defence Minister Predrag Matic. Mr. Minister, how do you live with the fact that you deceived Croatian defenders in public by claiming there is no law in the works, that you don't really know what this small militant group wants. And then after 20 days of protest, you released the draft draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. You've been knowingly deluding and insulting those victims, the most severe victims of the Homeland War. You represent yourself as a defender in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that population of Croatian defenders because you were yourself and you often sew on to them various epithets. Why are you doing this? It's a question of all of them. And they asked me to ask you how you can sleep to learn that the most difficult disabled have been standing on the road for the 90th day and you continue to question their honesty by trying to reduce their loyalty to the homeland as well as their honorary role in the Homeland War by bringing their incomes out for life's inkling in a wheelchair. Don't you insult them with that, demeaning them? Do you even have a conscience or are you so in love with yourself and your minister's chair?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96723	Minister Predrag Matic answers the question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96724	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives, fellow ministers. Here's what I need to answer by who knows which way to a question a man no longer knows what to answer. Thank you very much, well live, excellent, my health is still well, even though I went through the war and the 9th month detention in the 3rd Serbian concentration camp. So if there's anything good after these 90 days, I have to tell you in person, it's finally a confession to the warpath and the death of the Homeland War, so I was a Croatian defender, a werewolf defender. In the camp I didn't eat lamb and pig every day and they didn't bring prostitutes to me as far as I've been told, but I've passed through fate just like other Croatian defenders civilians, prisoners, from some better, from some worse. So Amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences are only 7 points which are all very affirmative and you know very well which we had to bring about the unique body of art. We have improved some things in the housing of Croatian defenders and we have resolved the issue of members of the Croatian Defence Council, which has been unresolved for many years, i.e. sloppyly solved, you know it best. So, if I were to comment on some insult by Croatian defenders, they might be better able to comment on how I deal with going past the Ministry every day where I'm supposed to kill him, smell him, and not speak any more of the other expressions they attach to me. I thank the Croatian defenders because today the last two months I'm going to buy bread I'm going to accompany two police officers, thank the Croatian defenders for that. So in the '90s, I didn't have to be afraid of Chetniks or afraid of them, and now, I'm not afraid of them either, of course, because they are, most of them are those who do and who tell me most of them are cowards, they're strong when they're in a group, they're not really, they're not, they've been proven a lot before. And here, I have nothing to say, so neither do I insult Croatian defenders, I am working on their advantage. As for my crush on the chair, here we wait for the election to pass, it simply needs to show people that the government doesn't change on the street, it doesn't change the tents. Because if I were to resign after the protesters in the tent put it in front of the Ministry of Defense, I'm afraid it wouldn't be a recipe so that the tent wouldn't move to the Ministry of Agriculture and then to the Ministry of Health. I said that once before that we can calculate what's cheaper, every four years have elections or move tents every 20 days in front of the ministries. Here, there's nothing else to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96725	Comment on the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96726	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, I can't be pleased with your re-nouncing and calling certain cowards. You are equally rude again in this high Croatian home, in this Parliament as well as in public communication with people and citizens of Croatia, as well as with defenders. Are you not aware of all the insults you have made, and of the insolences and simplicity you have spoken in public communication? Well, you should've been replaced immediately if you didn't have any more roles in this government. ... /The noise in the hall./... Well, you said you'd been swept from the fourth to the seventh generation, that they knew everything about you and even that place I wouldn't talk about today. Isn't that a shame? You sewed your pockets, so sew up more mouths so you wouldn't be so rude. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96727	Please. Quiet, please. And your colleague Djakić still choose the words when you perform at the Croatian Parliament, it is not appropriate. The third question is asked by a colleague named Djurdzica Plancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96728	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. So for the last week, we have witnessed a rapid increase in the Swiss franc course, which literally resulted in a significant financial blow to a large number of Croatian citizens. It is estimated to be about 68 thousand loans in Swiss francs, which probably means the same number of families that have indeed found themselves in an invisible position. Of course, there were immediately many experts each with their own proposal for a solution, from the search for moratorium, conversion or reduction of the tax rate to the demand for additional analysis and many more. But the government reacted immediately and without delay, and at its emergency session held yesterday, it decided to propose a bill to the Parliament to fix a Swiss franc course to 6.39 kuna and to the deadline of one year. Since we continue to hear from critics how this measure is fire, insufficient, partial, I ask you nicely to explain to us and the Croatian public once again and tell us which idea you led when you decided to address this problem this time and whether our citizens with these loans can be more peaceful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96729	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96730	Thank you, Madam Representative. In our case, a fire measure is usually seen as high as a bad thing. This is not a fire measure, this is a decisive measure, and otherwise the person headed by the Franak Association is one of the senior firefighters, the pilot of the canadians in the Croatian Army, I learned yesterday. They're serious people in trouble. But here's an example, so I've been very careful and careful these three years, and I've been choosing words when I was talking about banks and financial institutions. I'm aware that their stability is important. Domination is out of the question. Out of the question. I have a few friends, close friends of my generation who took those loans, none of them speculative. I have a close relative who's a top doctor, who doesn't practically lift his head out of the O.R. and live off his salary every day. In 2006 to buy an apartment for his three children, he and his wife, who is the same doctor and works in the public system, raised a long-term loan and the first war was 5800 kuna. If they had taken in euro and no one knew the difference, it would have been 6500 kuna. Today, this same euro credit war is a little over 6,500 kuna. In the francs, if the government hadn't passed and proposed this law, it would have been 10500 kuna. This is only 8500 kuna versus the initial 5800. That's unfortunately what I have to say now after three years in the history of crediting a modern so Western civilization without precedent. It's simply unimaginable and no story of bank balances, about how I was in debt then, and how I'm showing the balance sheet, it can't give an answer. In 2006, those who made a populist move through this, I think of responsible people not necessarily in government but elsewhere, who did not want to object to the citizens and let them naively simply engage in this while in Austria at the same time issuing on the orders of the state bank for such credit warnings to citizens in an official form that was only about to be head of the dead. We'll share that in this House so people can see it, with warnings of all risks, so shared responsibilities. There was no problem there. Okay, maybe we can't compare everything to Austria, maybe our citizens want to make up for what took their war, their years of suffering, their denials, and it's reasonable that people wanted a little more or a little cheaper. And if after that, you get a little bit of punishment, and it's human, but to destroy you to fall into debt slavery doesn't. The government did this and it can do it. In cooperation with the National Bank of Croatia, which is the National Bank of Croatia and not Pakistan, we will find a solution and I guarantee that we will find a solution to further address this problem because it is not finished, to look back on the euro credit problem, to explain to the public what it really means, to see if this is possible. Because it is simple to say, after six years of crisis and we were proud of it, Croatian banks continue to work as God, profits are great. In the year, after a year since we first legally intervened and reduced the interest rates to the franc the bank's profits have increased further. Not that it didn't bother them, but they're still great and make it profitable. But in the future, that responsibility will be shared. I've never fueled and burned the public with populist statements at the expense of banks. There must be order, but in the future in a different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96731	There's no comment. Thank you. Fourth question from counterpart Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96732	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My question goes to Mr Milanovic, the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, it is generally known that the public debt of the Republic of Croatia exploded during the term of your government, and that the risk premium is only less than the Greek risk, unfortunately on all economic scales at the very bottom of the EU. What is less known, however, is that using statistical methodologies you change them as shoes. So, when you agree with the EU statistical methodology to demonstrate export growth, that's a good thing. However, when a Croatian government deficit is to be calculated, then use the national methodology, so two weeks ago you proudly announced that our deficit was only $12.8 billion even though a month before that, here in the Croatian Parliament, you presented a rebalancing that was three billion kunas higher. So in a month, it must have been three billion kunas. Unfortunately, however much we all wish that the deficit was only $12.8 billion you forget on purpose, which is that you took three billion from the second pension stake, that the unmarked debt in health care is several billion kunas, that guarantees to state-owned enterprises are issued as on tape, no one is even recorded anymore. Now, my question to you is, are you prepared here in front of all of us and the Croatian public under full moral, material and criminal responsibility to guarantee that the deficit is really $12.8 billion?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96733	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96734	Look, it's been three years. In this year, I don't have time for this kind of controversy with you. Citizens and Croats and Croats will determine and decide and they will see very clearly, because now the clouds have spread out who works for the benefit of people, who is trying and insisting that those who represent the driving engine of this society come into a better, more favourable situation that they can spend more. Maybe not like you or anything like that, but I can afford something a little bit to deprive them of that debt burden. And you go your way. We don't do statistics, we do fair work. If we sometimes call on EU statistics, that should be fine. Oh, no? I don't know what statistics we've been calling before, and we're going to continue in these years like that. It won't be easy, we'll fight because we have clean goals and clean methods, and you go your way. You won't get my attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96735	A comment. Please, the answer will be commented by whoever asked the question. My colleague, Domagoj Milosevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96736	Well, I'm thrilled with the answer. Insolent, rude, irresponsible as always in your style. And as much as I can spend, you've known since '89. I hired unlike you hundreds of people and paid hundreds of millions of kuna taxes. So let it go. And the answer to your answer follows. So, thanks to your unhappiness or false work of Croatian citizens you were just talking about, they lost about a hundred billion kuna values only in a real estate housing fund more than Spain, Greece or Portugal. You don't know what the losses in the company's worth are because of your hard work, so the company's worth probably tens of billions of kuna over the past three years. The opportunity cost of entering the EU and what you are doing today and do not do is also wrongly measured in billions of euros. Your government's public debt will certainly grow by 80 billion kuna in four years. And when you add all this together, it's one year old Croatian GDP, about 50,000 people who have left Croatia, young and educated in the past few years, we don't even need to talk. Too bad it's absolutely immeasurable, so you just don't have time and don't answer any questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96737	Fifth question from my colleague, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96738	Thank you. I ask my question to the Secretary of the Navy, and it concerns the recognition of foreign educational qualifications acquired outside the EU. Following the entry into force of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, problems arise, especially in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Although they have been formally recognised by the Agency for Science and Higher Education, they refer to the re-trial of competent chambers in order to recognise their professional qualification. Experience has shown that the recognition of foreign professional qualifications through a professional chamber has been followed by aggravating administrative procedure and monitoring high material costs. In fact, the procedure includes passing more than 10 exams, 5 hundred hours of practical work in the profession at the cost of about 50,000 kuna, which, of course, these young people who haven't even started to work can't even begin to provide. All of this is in favour of the lack of understanding of the problems of these young and educated people who, through different circumstances, acquired their education outside the Republic of Croatia. There is an impression, there is a feeling that there is open discrimination for Croatian citizens who are educated in the countries of the region compared to EU citizens. That's why I'm asking Mr. Minister what he thinks the minister is doing to address the problem of mutual recognition of diplomats in the region?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96739	Minister Vedran Navarre answers the question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96740	Dear Madam Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. This is about the literal application of the European Directive and the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Professional Qualifications. It's different from the area to the area. Educational qualification is recognised, and routinely done, by the Agency for Science and Higher Education. And in the specific case you are likely to refer to this question is the procedure in front of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine where the procedure is slightly more complex. He is also familiar with the Minister of Health and we work together to address the problem, to simplify the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96741	Commentary on the question, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96742	Thank you. I could in principle be satisfied with this response, Mr. Minister, however, it is far from what is a problem in real life and it is unfortunately the impression that it is easier for these people to graduate than to nostrate that same degree in the Republic of Croatia. Let me remind you of the fact that right now 200 thousand young people educated have left Croatia, of which 800 doctors. At the same time, we have a deficit of this staff, especially in areas of special state concern where this job is not as attractive as it is attractive in Zagreb, Osijek, Split and some other cities. However, we have data that there are people in both Ervenik and Knin and White Manastir, and in Vukovar and Trpinja who want to work, to stay there, who are residents of such places and who have acquired their education in the way I have said. That's what's made it impossible for them precisely because of the chamber's relationship to their diplomats. They have done and are doing a traineeship, they have been recognised a diploma but are not allowed to pass a state-run expert exam, of course, which is why future employment is at stake. And we wouldn't like to say that we'll probably be able to import doctors from Romania soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96743	The sixth question is asked by counterpart Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96744	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I refer my question to the vice-presidents of the Croatian government and the minister of social policy and young Mrs Milanki Opačić. Dear Madam Vice Presidents, although many often say that this government is not Social Democratic, that it is technological, neoliberal, that nothing is working, that it is not socially sensitive and that it does not care about Croatian citizens, this government is just the opposite of drawing a series of social democratic moves and measures such as some decisions and laws relating to human rights, such as increasing salaries to Croatian citizens, rebuilding in flooded areas, employment promotion measures, assistance to our fellow citizens who have loans to the Swiss franc, yesterday's support for the prime minister of Sisak refinery workers, etc., etc. So this government has withdrawn another social democratic measure called the new beginning for the most socially endangered citizens to write off the debts of our poorest citizens. Well, for that initiative, we can say freely that this is another social measure by the non-social democratic government. You announced that measure and initiative last week to the Croatian public. Two days ago, an agreement with the government was signed by mayors of major cities and directors of public enterprises, bank representatives did so yesterday. My question, therefore, is, what do you expect from this initiative, what are the criteria for write-off, who has all supported this initiative and joined the citizens' write-off and who do you expect to join in the next period? And why, in your opinion, is such a large number of our fellow citizens in blockades? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96745	Answer the question, Vice President Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96746	Thank you, Mr. Representative. So it's about a large number of citizens who have been blocked for over a year and who have, for that reason, really stopped their lives and it's not something that happened since yesterday, so it's something that's been piling up for years. The crisis is taking too long, jobs have been lost for the last 10 years, 12 years, and people unfortunately have become more and more troubled from day to day. What we've done in the last two days with the signing and the teleoperators, the banks, the trading companies in the majority state property, and with 4 major cities, it's actually about creditors who have 90% of the debt. And that's why it was important for us to sign it with them first. It's about writing off our debt to the most vulnerable. So people who have social benefits, people who have personal disabilities, people who really live on the poverty line. And we all agreed together this was one process that we've been doing for more than six months in negotiations with both banks and teleopers and we've come to these criteria together. Everyone agreed that these criteria are absolutely criteria for those who are most vulnerable. This means that, in fact, for the first users who will be able to submit their first debt write-off requests from February 1st, they could expect the first people to be unblocked and who have a new life start. So far, a number of cities have come forward to sign the agreement, join the agreement. The other day we were in Krapina-Zagorje County because they first appeared there, but as of today or yesterday, it is already a form on the pages of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth which can be filled out by every city and every municipality and any legal person who provides certain services to its citizens and who want to write off the debt by these criteria to citizens. I think everyone has shown a great social responsibility, a great social sensitivity to those citizens who are really the hardest to live for, and that's why these last two days in Croatia have proved to be able to sit together at the table and with those with whom they may not seem to be able to agree, but here we have shown that they can because they are all aware that this category of people should be helped. The vast majority of these people are not aware, and they have fallen into these problems with their own will, but have found themselves because of a difficult economic situation and a crisis that has been going on for too long. So this is one good social measure, and that is why I expect all cities, all municipalities and all legal entities that deliver certain services to citizens to be involved in this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96747	There's no comment. Question seven, colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96748	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I refer my question to the vice-presidents of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the minister of social policy and young Mrs Milanki Opačić. Dear Madam Vice President, by its decision of 12 January 2015, the Constitutional Court has suspended the application of the Family Law. I must point out that such speed is somewhat unusual when we know that in some other cases the Constitutional Court has been deciding here for the fourth year, so we still don't know what the position of the Constitutional Court is, for example, on the currency clause. But good. The speed the Constitutional Court has decided here has led to a whole series of problems. The problems are our courts, the problems are social care centres because they don't know how to act, but above all, there are children, protégés and parents because they don't know how their decisions will be made, their decisions on alimony, decisions on seeing parents and children. He's in trouble, too. Namely, the law of which was laid down by the Constitutional Court, which is the Family Law of 2003, is not in line with either the EU directives or the international conventions which the Republic of Croatia joined in the meantime. I note, the European Commission has been notified of the adoption of the 2014 law, it is in line with European law and we are obliged to implement it. My question to you is, what will the government do to remove these consequences of the Constitutional Court's decision as soon as possible so as not to put up with our citizens and not to put up with the Republic of Croatia because of a procedure that possibly the European Commission could launch against us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96749	This is Vice President Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96750	Yes, Mr. Representative, all of what you said is true. So a very unusual decision by the Constitutional Court instead of saying which parts were potentially anti-constitutional so that the deadline as for many other laws that this legislative body and executive compliance, they suspended the law and put themselves in office as legislators and decided which law would be in force for the first time so far done by the Constitutional Court and definitely went beyond the framework of their law. We here in the government are primarily chosen to protect the interests of citizens and their rights. At this point, the fact is that many of our citizens cannot exercise their rights, for example. We have a situation that because of the suspension of the new law, one parent can still take the child to another country and doesn't have to bring it back. We have many such problems where parents have done so and we have never returned these children to Croatia and have not returned them to their parents. On the other hand, there is no mechanism that protects parents from seeing their child, which is primarily the right of the child to have contact with one and the other parents because there are no sanctions in the 2003 law that were suspended. Likewise, it should be said that those who have been deprived of their business skills under the old law have been completely deprived. It is a violation of the Convention on Human Rights and the Convention in the Rights of Persons with Mental Disturbation. We have lost many judgments at the European Court of Human Rights because it is under the old law to, for example. a parent who has an easy mental retardation but takes care of his child, you take that child away, you give him up for adoption which was the case, and don't ask him anything, and don't ask him for his opinion. So in our law, we are in line with the directives, and such a parent's convention must be asked for consent and opinions must be sought. On the other hand, we've saved some money with this law. I'll just tell you, for example. when it comes to our special custody centres where people with law school and the passed judicial exams that went to court and protected the rights of children and persons deprived of their business skills or deprive themselves, we paid them lawyers so far we paid about 7.5 million kuna at the annual level. Our lawyers we hired in our five centers cost us a million and 300 thousand kuna a year. So it is one direct savings in the Croatian budget, but apparently this Constitutional Court was not very interested. It is far more important to us than this savings and that we have obtained lawyers who are sensitive to the rights of children and sensitized to the rights of persons who are deprived of their business skills and who are exclusively concerned with their rights and protect their interests, which has not been the case so far. Without that institute right now, those people are also left. As far as the Government of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, once again, we are all in charge of fighting for the rights of our citizens and protecting their rights and so on, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will quickly refer to the Croatian Assembly of Family Law with certain amendments so that the Family Law will come into force and retain all these mechanisms that protect citizens' rights primarily children, parents and even more people with mental disorders, persons with disabilities whose rights in this country clearly protect only individual associations and no one else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96751	There's no comment. Thank you. 8 questions from counterpart Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96752	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I refer my question to the first Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Ms Vesni Pusic. A cruel and tragic attack on the editorial of the satirical magazine Charil Hebdo in Paris has disgusted the entire free world with his insolence, insolence, and especially motive. It is obvious that the attack itself has provoked various interpretations but numerous views of religious fundamentalism, in this case Islamic fundamentalism from a historical perspective and with it causally resulting in the creation of an Islamic state to a number of very serious debates on global, individual security of states under the given circumstances. All anti-terrorist coalition countries, including Croatia, are more vulnerable in terms of possible similar terrorist attacks and unpredictable content, places and times. In your opinion, what are the most important security-political issues and aspects that open before us in Europe and Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96753	The first vice president, Vesna Pusic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96754	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I thank you, Mr. Representative, for asking. So after the terrorist attack on Sharlie Hebdo in Paris, he gathered, so I would say for two reasons, one is solidarity specifically with France and specific to French tradition in the fight for freedom of public words and in support of journalists and cartoonists who died in that terrorist attack. The free world gathered and gathered absolutely in the unity of Europe. This kind of community we actually saw in the fight against terrorism for the first time directly in the gathering of anti-ISIL or anti-DASH coalitions in the fight against a terrorist extremist organisation that calls itself the Islamic State that has already opened a broad topic at the time, which is on the one hand the fight against terrorism, the United Europe and the United World in the fight against terrorism that requires the co-operation of the service, the state, very broad co-operation in the field and at the same time opens the second issue since this attack in Paris has been characterized also as an anti-Semitism anti-Semitism fight. And at the same time, the fight against anti-Islamism. So the fact that terrorist groups, extremist groups, terrorist groups today identify or hide behind Islam and could hide behind anything else, also raises the issue of the importance of fighting anti-Islamism that often causes it in societies. And one way is certainly to partner with Islamic communities in European countries and leaders who are ready and able within Muslim communities in European countries to provide such a leadership as is foretold by the terrorist extremism behind that religion. We, fortunately in Croatia, have such leadership and cooperate with this leadership in our Islamic community. This also requires something that we discussed at the European Union Foreign Ministers' Council on Monday and with Arab League Secretary General Elaraby. Since it also requires co-operation with the majority Islamic countries, primarily Arab countries that should be equal, if not in some things and a leading role in the fight against terrorism, extremism hiding behind Islam, or behind Muslim communities, and that threatens Muslim communities at least as much as non-Muslim communities. So the short answer is the co-operation of states, very broad co-operation of states and services with special emphasis on Europe's co-operation with Arab League and Arab League countries as well as co-operation with Islamic communities in all these countries [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]] Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96755	No comment. 9th question of colleague Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96756	Thank you very much. I ask the question to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Regional Development, Mr Branko Grcic. Dear Mr. Vice-President, the Croatian Statistics Institute says according to their data, and we do not question them when they fit us and when we do not agree that the Croatian economy in the past 10 months last year had about 65 billion kuna exports. It may not mean anything to many, but if we say it's a 9% more than last year, with the same period last year, it's saying something. On the other hand, after six years of stagnation and decline in industrial production, we have growth in industrial production. According to a report by the European Statistical Office, therefore, the European not-Croatian Croatia is one of the countries with the largest growth in industrial production. If we add to that the fact that almost a million Croatian citizens have since 1.1 this year and will have higher salaries, which is the result of changes in income tax, I would ask the question, can we finally say after 6 years of crisis that Croatia has gone to better place and that those of us who are saying this do not declare you on duty optimists without cover? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96757	This is Vice President Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96758	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I won't repeat myself, so all you've said is true, these are facts, it's recorded in the state statistics of different institutions, the State Institute, the CNB, the Ministry of Finance, some of our funds, etc., etc. However, what I'm saying is that the government will absolutely do everything it is in the domain of the government that these positive trends from 2014 continue in 2015 and that there is a certain point of view, so I would say a turnaround first of all in GDP because we already have a lot of these positive movements here. What we can expect in 2015 is to continue the growth of both industry and tourism and then, of course, exports and goods and services. What we need is consumer optimism, so we need a continuation of the growth of personal consumption that was very mild in 2014 but without growing personal consumption can be difficult for GDP to recover. And what is most important is to awaken investment both in the public and private sectors. I hope that this story with the EU funds where we have created but indeed created all the assumptions that big money deals and then the realisation of these projects will make a special contribution to investment in this year. However, what I want to stress here in particular and I think that we should finally agree on this, this approach where every good news is tried through legitimate I will say a political battle to defuse it is not good for Croatia, it is not good that it happens in either country, and God does not even in Brussels, and this is happening all the time. So our respective political representatives keep talking against their country, not against the government, not against some phenomena, but generally against some things that should lead forward and the economy and the country, and that's not good. So without that necessary optimism, one responsible relationship has neither a growth in investment nor investors will come, there is no growth in personal consumption because people will always squeeze and say here tomorrow might be worse so let's save, we won't spend. Without spending, there will be no economic recovery, without the necessary optimism there will be no new employment of people because entrepreneurs will be squeezed so they won't take one, two, three, five people to the firm because they won't know what's coming tomorrow. In economic theory, there is a theory of expectations. Without good expectations and optimism, there is no progress. It's very clear, and if at least we don't stand together on these issues, there's no recovery behind it. This recovery will continue to be a trom, slow, easy, but I say at least about such things we should really value the truth and the facts that are disproved cannot. Here's an example of this one about the budget. So why don't we commend one government that in a few months in financial year 2014, it's managed to save an extra 3 billion kuna? Why don't you compliment something like that? That's a fact. So we know exactly how much less we spent, reduce the deficit to 3.8% of GDP, and get close to the objectives that we have agreed between ourselves and the European Commission. It is a great entry in 2015 as a new fiscal year and we will base fiscal policy on it, but also on the overall economic policy this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96759	Thank you. No comment. 10 questions, colleague Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96760	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, because in November last year I asked the Ministry of Finance to list capital investments for Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek during this government but I did not get that information, and the situation in Slavonia and Baranja is getting worse. We know that it's been coming to Slavonia and Baranja for years, but looking at people leaving villages and cities, going abroad, many have seen their chance in the construction sector for years, but looking at the budget and listening to the Prime Minister's latest report I haven't found much capital investment for Slavonia and Baranja. So here's the question to the Prime Minister, by the end of the term, do you plan to start any strategic investment for Slavonia and Baranja, so I'd like you to say what investments these are and when you're planning to start.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96761	The Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, answers. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96762	The most recent changes in the tax system, the correction of tax cannons to which there have been objections, most of all, favor the poorest municipalities, which are unfortunately mostly in Slavonia and Baranja. First. Secondly, you were the mayor of Osijek, recently launched a huge project in infrastructure, a water supply system worth tens and tens of millions of euros. That's what Osijek never had. Here's what I'm gonna stop at, there's a lot more to it, so you don't say I'm spreading optimism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96763	He's commenting on his colleague Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96764	I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. But you yourself said that Slavonia and Baranja had also gone through war and denial among some regions, but I think the time has come for Slavonia and Baranja to be treated very differently. But I didn’t ask you about the tax system although it changes from day to day, and we see that Slavonia and Baranja are increasingly lagging behind. Also, seeing people from Slavonia and Baranja who are leaving more and more, then surely I am expressing my concern. But you just mentioned a capital investment, and I've been working on that capital investment for years, and you couldn't pass it, and it's a 72m-euro purifier and collector for the City of Osijek. I did not ask you for an investment that was an initiator of the City of Osijek but precisely for investments concerning your Croatian Government ministries and I expected you to boast of something and that you would start something because your mandate was almost over and in Slavonia and Baranja you did not start any investments, and those that are going on are going quite slowly and their completion has been stretched out. Therefore, I ask you once again, Prime Minister, look at Slavonia and Baranja and start at least one capital investment in your mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96765	11 questions, counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96766	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will refer my question to the Minister of Justice. Dear Minister, we have witnessed many cases in which our citizens are unable to comply with their financial obligations, come under review, blockades, raids. Some countries resolve this by bankruptcy of consumers, or so on. personal bankruptcy. I believe that as a social democratic government, we can and must protect these citizens as well. So I ask you, will you and when will you propose a consumer bankruptcy law and, if so, what would be its essential features.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96767	Minister Orsat Milenic answers the question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96768	Thank you, well-respected MPs. So the law is about to end, so in a public debate and we expect it to go before the government by the end of the month, which means it will be in the Parliament somewhere in February, the first half of February. It is a very complex procedure in the legal system because we are introducing an institute that we have never had in Croatia. We're introducing an institute that has great expectations, and I'd say sometimes too big, and I'd like to send a message that we need to be realistic too. So what does he mean? He means on the one hand we give citizens who have gone into life's problems, really into life's problems, because unfortunately there are a lot of such citizens around us. We give them a chance to start a new beginning and give them a chance that after all their assets are leveled, they remain a certain existential minimum, the debts return, that the rest be written off. There goes a period of trial two to five years as we now imagine where a citizen is under me would say under the patronage of a species because what he earns must go on paying off his debts, part remains for him to live. After that, when that period is over, he is completely calm and released from all that debt. It also avoids the terrible problem that often plagues citizens with, say, housing loans where they lose real estate and then actually stay perhaps, sometimes for the rest of their lives, even more than they have been. That'll be avoided. But it's also the basic message that we have to and which is here, so on the one hand help for such a debtor who's in trouble is that the debt must also be paid back. It's a message not because of the credentials, it's a message and because of all those citizens who neatly find it difficult sometimes to connect the end with the end of the line to do everything they can to pay back their debt. So this is not a law that's going to be some kind of magic wand that's going to free all the people in this country and start from the beginning and put something else in their pocket or near them. He is a law that will give people the opportunity to come, brought once by their own fault, sometimes from objective circumstances to a problem that they cannot solve for themselves to start over but with a very great effort, with denial. No one can count on getting into a personal bankruptcy and having no iPhone. The question is, can he have a car if he doesn't need some really necessary transport for the sake of children, etc. That's right. No one will be able to stay in a large house if he is obliged to others, for those who ask him live on it. These may also be some workers who have done the job, some craftsman who cannot be charged, etc. So that's one circle. But he's just one of the measures of everything we've done so far, what we've changed in the Executive Act, and we've introduced a moratorium, for example, to the actions that exist, we've introduced, of course, when it comes to the only real estate and under certain conditions. Now let's go with the write-off, which is also important. And what matters is we have to and now we are finally in a position to establish a system that this law can work. We expect at one point an inflow of 200,000 citizens. So we first had to establish a system so that we could deal with it. You can't let a new institute actually fail. Now that we know we can manage him and he's here, then we go with the law. There will be a debate in the Parliament, we also expect feedback as different and better as possible. And so the law through two readings somewhere in March is expected second and could take effect somewhere in May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96769	There's no comment. 12 questions, colleague Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96770	Thank you very much. I ask my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Since we know that the situation in agriculture has been disastrous especially in the last three years since you run this ministry and government composed of SDP, respected Mr. Minister, on the question of those people who often stop me on the road, and as chairman of the Committee, I ask you how much the Ministry of Agriculture has withdrawn from the Rural Development Programme from the envelope of 333 million euros and how much it plans to withdraw in 2015. I also ask you the question why in the IPARD programme in the last year of 14 billion euros you've withdrawn 12 and a half billion back into the European cash register. I ask you why you were late with the Rural Development Programme for six months, so the EU gave it back to you, so you gave it back again. Got 373 remarks, and no sign of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96771	Minister Tihomir Jakovina responds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96772	I thank the esteemed vice president, the esteemed parliamentary representative, dear colleague. In your question, there are quite a number of inaccuracies and false allegations and false data. The rural development programme is the most important, one of the two most important strategic documents of this government but also for the Croatian agriculture sector and Croatian farmers made in time. A new reform package of the common agricultural policy was adopted for three years and was adopted at the end of 2013. The implementing acts under which we could develop the Rural Development Programme came only in April and May 2014. In the seventh month of 2014, we submitted the Rural Development Programme about two or three weeks before the deadline. At the end of the 10th month, we received an observational letter from the European Commission, not as you said 373, not as some critics say 377 because they did not read the observational letter and remarks at all, but 378 remarks. One part of this is nomotechnical remarks, and one was a crucial, content where we fought with the Commission for weeks to pass our argument, which we were looking for in the rural development programme. We're talking about upper and lower investment thresholds according to measure four. We didn't and didn't want to make the mistake we made when we closed Chapter XI, XII, XIII. and agree to everything that the Commission has asked of us, for our agricultural producers, for our food industry, it is extremely important that, in measure 4, they can use the top 5 million-euro investment threshold for eligible costs, not 3 million as requested by the Commission from us. The lower thresholds were also important for us to be on the border between 4 and 8 SO or 4 to 8000 euros in annual traffic so that the largest number of OPGs could apply to that measure. The 7th measure for local self-government units, where we have up to a million euros in funding for the construction of municipal infrastructure, traffic control, public lighting, local self-government units, was to finance 80% of the EU budget and 20% from the budget of local self-government units. For weeks, we have proven and negotiated with the Commission that this funding is 100% and we have fought for it. That is why I did not agree and in one day after receiving this observation letter I agreed to all 378 remarks to work on my PR and that Croatia would be a country among the first to be accepted by the rural development programme. No, the negotiations with the Commission are about to end, and within the deadlines that we have drawn up the programme will be adopted and brought into line with the European Commission. We didn't lose the euro from the rural development programme either because the implementation of the Rural Development Programme is M+3. So, the first year of 2014, which no one could use because it was a programming year, out of 118 rural development programmes across Europe, only three were accepted in the 12th month last year. We use M+3 funds from 2014 and are used until 2017. 2020 funds are used until 2023. And if we're talking about using IPARD in 2010-2011, 1.7% were used together. We've raised, we've closed IPARD as a pre-accession fund, we've raised the contract to 94% of the complete envelope, and we're going to have about 70% of the total envelope of the pre-accession fund because we've made significant use over the last three years. We have not lost a single euro from the rural development programme and we have best protected the interests of Croatian agriculture. We expect to use 70 to 80% of the entire rural development programme through this rural development programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96773	Thank you. We have a comment on the answer. Here you go, colleague Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96774	Mr. Minister, of course I disagree with your answer because you said a lot of incorrect information. You didn't answer me why you returned 12.5 billion in IPARD to the European cash register, you didn't answer me. You haven't even answered how much you're going to withdraw in 2015, and in 2014 you didn't pull anything on rural development. What I'm saying is, the truth is we didn't lose, but we're late. So today in 2015, the first month, you will not get feedback from the European Commission until 6 months. You get vacations in the autumn if you call any competitions, you'll be happy, and I'm afraid 2.5 years will pass, and you in the Ministry of Agriculture on rural development of 333 and over 600 billion euros, respectively, will not withdraw a single kuna. Well, of course, agriculture is in such a difficult situation, it's disastrous, and it's going to be even harder to do business in agriculture because this is the ministry's relationship with people who deal with agriculture and the money you get from the EU is indeed for every conviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96775	Thank you. The next question will be asked by counterpart Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96776	Thank you very much. The question is for the Secretary of the Navy. Dear Mr. Ministers reporting to the media these days in Imotski was elected Director of the Open University of Pucci. Of the 5 candidates reported, 4 had high professional training, 1 candidate had medium professional training. By law, the Director must have high professional training. The City Council of the City of Imotski has chosen, imagine, the only one who does not meet the legal requirements of the competition, this candidate who has a medium professional standing with 12 HDZ council votes for and 5 parliamentary opposition votes against. Mr. Minister, this candidate happens to be a member of the HDZ. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, doesn't it seem to you that such a choice hurts not only the law but also the common sense which requires us to separate internalities from public functions and which requires us to hope that an adequate diploma is still more important than an adequate party card. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you what you're going to do to protect the reputation of the profession, of democracy, of the law of the nakaradian and so to say the nakaradic demonstrations of force, of political similarities and of political primitives as it was in this case, unless the media is lying about what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96777	Thank you. To answer the question, Minister Vedran Sailor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96778	Dear Mr. Vice-President, respected MPs and MPs, the open-air colleges can perform educational programs, and can also implement programmes in culture. I can do both. Unfortunately, the law is only clear where education programs are being implemented. Unfortunately, the situation here is such that Pucko Open School in Imotski does not implement educational programs and as such is not at all in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. And the competition on the web pages allows the middle expert to report to the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96779	Thank you very much. ... Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's continue with the questions. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The next question will be asked by counterpart Gordan Jandrokovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96780	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. After the presidential elections on several occasions, you spoke very uglyly about political opponents and the newly elected president of the Republic and refused to congratulate her on the election victory. It's your right, it's your political decision and your position. But what I was interested in was an explanation of why you wouldn't congratulate, and that's what you said on the show Public Matter. I'll read it to you now. You said, "I haven't heard from her yet, I don't know what it means to congratulate her. I keep my mouth shut. I didn't even congratulate Evey Sanader. It's not about home-grown, I've got it more than enough, I'm like that, head through door, not through wall. I welcomed her. Let's not be hypocritical about this, children. I don't want to congratulate someone I didn't want to, and I don't want to pretend that I'm happy about those election results. Let's not insist on hypocrisy." So my question or more is like this, since you are very often referring to political culture and representing yourself as part of that political spectrum in Croatia that advocates this political culture, how does your view affect the culture of political tolerance, mutual respect and dialogue? What message did you send to the children you are also calling for because if you don't think you should congratulate the one you didn't want, what message is that about that universal fair play for our young generations? And what particularly intrigues me, if you do not think that you should congratulate someone you did not want or are not happy if you congratulate yourself on being hypocrites, then do you think that Mr Ivo Josipovic, the President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Leco and a few of your ministers wanted Mrs. Kolinda and are happy about her victory or do you also consider them hypocrites?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96781	Time. Thank you. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic will answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96782	What do you need this for? The campaign is over, but if you lose your parliamentary term and your boss cuts it off, you can come to my PR in the SDP, is what you've repeated right now, yes. I don't wash my words, I teach kids to be honest, of course, in the context of decency. You know very well what kind of home education I have, you know my parents very well, I know yours, it's not bad at all but it's not a matter of home education, it's a matter of guard, so it's a matter of relationship to the truth. And yes, it's simply something that I want Croatian children to behave, of course I can't take them under my wing. That's my message to them. Therefore, the campaign is over, the president who was elected with most votes we accept, the welcome means that we will work together within our legal powers, the government 99%, the president what little he has and that is how it will be. And I can only call that when we speak abroad, when we represent Croatia, when we give interviews to the prominent newspapers that we do not criticise our country and our government and our country in fact across borders of decency. Namely, no one has ever done this since the Croatian presidents or Franjo Tudjman who was the real president, so with half-presidential powers or presidents who have been more protocolal since 2000 and 2001, respectively, but still the presidents have been elected directly. So this is my call to the person Mrs Kitarovic who won this election that when she gives interviews, and the honeymoon goes very quickly, to watch what she says, to make sure that people watch it. Not to be careful what he says, please don't, there's no point in groaning, being careful what he says. No one's threatening her, so she knows who's threatening her and I haven't talked about her, I've talked about a foreigner, about Mrs. Kitarovic very little. I just said she chose bad company because in life it's all about choice again. We choose, we're free people. And I'm telling you, I'm offering you a job, you're gonna need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96783	Thank you. The next question will be asked, and the answer will be the answer. Here you go, colleague Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96784	Give me back two minutes, please. Thank you very much. So Mr Milanović, I had my job before and I will have it later, if not in the Croatian Parliament, private sector because I am co-owner of a company unlike you who have spent your whole life here on state mangers, but it is currently less important. It's much more important...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96785	I'd like to ask you colleagues and colleagues. My colleagues and colleagues, please allow our colleagues to respond. Here you go, colleague Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96786	I can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96787	Here you go, colleague Jandrokovic. Here's the time we've stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96788	So I asked you something, you didn't answer me, so I asked you to show again to Croatian citizens that you have no idea and you don't even know what you're saying. And you know why that's the way it is? Because you said you weren't going through the wall with your head, you were going through the door. A smart man uses a lock he opens the door, and those who are a little less smart hit your head with hard objects and then very often end up in a trauma with severe brain injuries. I'd prefer you to use your head as Prime Minister for other things. And as far as work goes, I'm pretty sure that after the end of this term, you won't be able to find a new job, because with everything you've shown, I don't see any employers who will hire you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96789	Thank you. The next question will be asked by a colleague named Mladen Novak. Here you go. Please, colleagues and colleagues, let us be patient with colleagues who need to ask questions and members of the government who need to answer. If you can't hold back, I'd like to ask you to leave the assembly until you calm down. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96790	Thank you very much. My question was addressed to the prime minister. The annual property management plan owned by the Republic of Croatia INA is intended either for sale or for purchase, possible purchase of works not owned by the Republic of Croatia. Since we know there's no money, that's what you said on several occasions, so buying nothing. The owner always manages interests and Hungarians do so, our interest aside from the legitimate and energy independence and the preservation of jobs. In the case of our refineries, it is obvious that only MOL is managed by its own interest, by achieving profits and by taking over the market. This government obviously doesn't have a strategy for this situation or a backup option. Minister Vrdoljak said that he is ready and ready for INA, but this resulted in the decisions of the administration that practically lead to the closure today of the Sisak Refinery, in the future very likely the Rijeka Refinery. MOL will probably never make a formal decision to close the refinery because it would also have to assume obligations for land recovery, which is too much. The Hungarians are obviously protecting their national interests and we haven't heard anything from you yet, something you said in response to the last question, no guard, no attitude. Yesterday you received the refinery workers and said you'd do something about it. Now I'm asking when and what exactly you're going to do because no owner allows anyone to deliberately destroy his property and then finds out, the op is gone. And in this case you represent the owner, the Republic of Croatia. We all know about the harmful contracts, but you knew about them before you came to power, that is, back when you were the opposition. The problem is too big, it's national, and one prime minister is expected to have a decisive reaction. I'm asking you what you're going to do specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96791	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic will answer the question. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96792	Thank you, colleague Novak, finally on the same side. But maybe we were on the same side the whole time. I received representatives of the workers and unions of the Sisak refinery yesterday, which is for me all the refinery of Croatia. Even director of the refinery appointed by MOL one man for both Rijeka and Sisak. A man from Belgium who is not an expert in technology is an expert in optimization, so layoffs. It's legitimate to a certain extent. I've received people from the refinery of Sisak yesterday, it's about 1,000 workers, it's not about a number, it's about the principles of some. I've never spoken to more moderate trade unions, trade unions can be very sharp. These people are primarily technologists and experts in their refinery business, which made an impression on me. These are people who can go to work in Qatar or they can go to work in other refineries in Europe, so they really don't have a job at risk in a way that they have to think about whether they're going to have to buy children books, clothes, anything. Yeah, we know what was signed earlier, we know how it was allowed for MOL to acquire a certain stock package in INA. They bought it, though, paid at market price and then the management rights, the president of one party and one government chose to give it sooner than they might have the right to go all normal. That's what Croatia heard, saw, digested, absorbed, and still has the nausea of it. MOL, very clearly, therefore has an interest in doing its sales or retail through INA. INA has little less than 500 petrol stations, MOL has closed its refinery in Mantua in Italy, it is a smaller refinery, it has restored 2 refineries in Hungary and Slovakia at the highest level possible. And if you ask MOL their interest is that everything in Croatia and Rijeka and that their fuel, from their refineries within the integrated group, can be rolled into the INA pumps, that is. That's a fact. What can the government do? He can try to stand up to it. Not by weapon, not by force, but simply by political pressure. And no one will tell me then that it is a blow to the freedom of investment and legal certainty in Croatia. Unfortunately, they got us there. Unfortunately, those who did what they did got us there. Well, somebody tell me I'm a populist. For 3 years, 3 years, I personally, not ever, ever directly and never in contact with representatives of MOL in Zagreb and Budapest, but never only through intermediaries chosen by the Government, we try to find common language. That's hard to do. That's hard to do. There are very clear interests of one side, I will not say Hungarian interests, these are the interests of this corporation that I have described. So I'm working on the derivatives because I invested there and invested in Rijeka and Sisak which is the Croatian refinery capacity that I keep talking about is not worth it. Businessly speaking, I understand that, but since you will not trust the Croatian and Croatian prime ministers alone, I do not accept it. Well, let's see who's stronger.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96793	Thank you. A comment from a colleague, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96794	The colleagues you described as trade unions are very well known and not trade unions, one of the presidents of the working council and the other president of the Association of Defense, and we were together on the battlefield so I know them very well. As for this, if you're asking for the interests of MOL, I didn't ask for the interests of MOL and I asked for the views of the Croatian government. I remind you that you were in Sisak on 31.12.2011 and that you made quite a number of such promises that nothing came true. After that, a SDP report convention was held in Sisak, five of your ministers were there. They said Sisak would go ahead with a full pair. What do we have after three years? Your advisor, as far as I hear from the media and friends, a member of the Supervisory Board Sinisa Petrovic could have informed you a long time ago and informed you of the situation that is happening in the refinery and the decision to close production in the refinery, about the abandonment of production has been made long ago. We all know about her, but everybody, there's no black in white anywhere, so then like it didn't happen. The Adriatic research process has been launched, who will process... oil, Hungarians? INA's got its own space, but it's actually going to be MOL's, so the exploitation from our area goes there again. One day, another government will say the same way you say it now is the previous government did, so my hands are tied, I can't do anything. One day another government will say look, those before us have sold highways or immunologically, or I don't know what all this is, this is all you're going to sell out unfortunately during your term. For me, closing the refinery is contrary to national interests and the difference between you and one of your predecessors is that...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96795	Comrade Novak's time has run out, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96796	Just a second to finish, which, unfortunately, you can put a thief in jail but whoever doesn't want to do something, who's incompetent or lazy to him, unfortunately, you can't do anything. You can only find out in the next election that you're not giving him a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96797	Thank you. The next question will be asked by colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96798	I want to ask Mr. Jakovina, Minister of Agriculture. And I ask him if it's in the spirit of the Agricultural Land Act that the state of its property, that the state of its agricultural land sells, doesn't matter now to whom, for 1 to 2 kuna per square so that these properties are then urbanized and then those same properties are sold by individuals for 50, 100, 200, and I know cases where they sold 300 euros per square. So 300, 700, 1000, 2,000 times more. All the peasants, the land should be given to him clearly because there are no peasants without land. If we have to give blood and blood to give it, but the speculator needs to just take everything. In one word, a speculator without everything or speculators in the plural should remain. I repeat, the peasant needs to get to the ground. A law that is in force knows the law. I don't hate to be sold either, but it's my opinion that the intensity of the law isn't that someone resells in that way acquired from the state, so my opinion is that the state wanted to give the speculators to be rich in this way so they'd probably write different laws. However, how to deal with this or indeed this practice is in line with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96799	Thank you. The Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina will answer the question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96800	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Cain, that you and I both know well that the interest and intensity of the Agricultural Land Act is that agricultural producers get the basis for their work, which is agricultural land, and here we agree that speculation and speculators, and we have had enough examples in history of what was done with agricultural land back 10 years, should be sanctioned and not be able to dispose of agricultural land. The current law puts the first and priority way available, it's a 50-year lease. One of the other models that also enables the law to be applied temporarily for 5 years until the land-booked correct condition is settled, while we do not have the same situation in the catastro, grantovnica, the situation on the ground and the possibility of tendering and the law has given possibility and purchases of land on the continent up to 10,000 square squares, in the coast of up to 2,000 squares and with precisely strictly set criteria. So for rounding up neighbouring parcels with the aim of rounding agricultural land, if these particles cannot be reached differently than through particles owned by a natural person, if these particles are made by agricultural production facilities or by some other economic object in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. There's no mention of anything, and there's no possibility of speculation in that story. In 2014, we had a total of 810 requests for 2276 cadastar particles for this way of selling themselves. As regards the lease which is the basic way of making agricultural land available, 124 tenders were opened in 2014 for nearly 18096 hectares. They are in the process, for some of the solutions are written, agricultural producers are introduced in production, for some they are ongoing and they end the processing of the cases themselves. And the third form is temporary use for 5 years where we're in '13. And in '14. Nearly 60 thousand hectares to farmers were given according to this model and that they could achieve their own support. When we talk about agricultural land, and on the question of the respected representative Lucic, who is not there, we provided funds in the Rural Development Programme, among other things, and we advocated two important faiths that will regulate our actual and quality use of agricultural land, which is demining. Measure 5, demining agricultural land where we have provided tens of millions of euros that through measure 5 we can clear mine and mine suspected agricultural land with 100% EU budget funding and put it into agricultural function. The second vision that we will use and finance from the Rural Development Program is cohesion, so the Law on COMMASATION has passed the first reading in this home, the second reading will be very soon and already this year we will have a multi-annual plan and the first plan of membership for 2015 that we will finance from the Rural Development Programme. Speculators don't, agricultural land put into operation as soon as possible and give the agricultural producers that. My inspection services on the ground can be controlled by other institutions of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96801	Thank you very much. Commentary, Comrade Caine, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96802	Yes, farmers forward, speculators halt. Unfortunately, we've been in these benches too long to know, our laws are often written for someone, I don't call you or the institutions unfortunately work for someone again. I think this rental institute that you've introduced is an absolute fair approach. I am for sale, but for 0.1 lip squares to farmers, let the farmer deal with it, let the country be the Istrians say in the barracks. If someone doesn't process it on the other hand, if they resell it then make it state. Can't someone buy I don't know two, three, five acres for 50 or 100 thousand kuna and then get 300 or 350 or 500 thousand euros of mortgage on that country that was simply state-owned until yesterday. Someone can't resell what they bought for one or two kunas for 50, 100, 200, 300 euros per square. Why was I fighting for a lease here? Because some great owners in Istria who have agro complexes of 500, 600, 1500 square meters intended to take over all these complexes, while local self-government urbanized one or two acres. It just doesn't work. Why isn't he going? Turns out we're not all the same. Groh people in this country are bankrupt, they can't go forward, they can't go back, they've lost the best years, and we can see that others are simply mixing. And that is why, in the spirit of this law, I really want to believe that this practice in this country will be questioned wherever it is that happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96803	Thank you. The next question will be asked by counterpart Ljiljana Cvetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96804	Thank you, dear Vice President. The question was addressed to Minister Mrssic. The World Bank forecasts predict that Croatia will grow by 0.5% after a six-year decline in gross domestic product in 2015. The economic growth estimates are really not high, but even the lowest pensions have not been increased in a significant amount while the cost of the lives of the pensioners has increased, so the growing number of pensioners is entering the poverty zone. As many as 48% of pensioners receive a pension of less than 2000 kuna, and the lowest pensions user has 200 thousand and their average pension is 1410 kuna, i.e. a quarter of the average salary. My question is: Can pensioners with the lowest pensions expect an increase in pensions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96805	Thank you. Minister Mrsic will answer the question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, when we talk about the lowest pension, it is part of the pension system, but also part of the social system. In fact, by looking at the lowest pensions, if they were determined only according to the internship and according to the contributions paid, they would be 44% less than they are now. Thus, the system of solidarity works and these pensions are almost 50% higher than the pensions that our citizens would deserve just to be based on years of work experience and contributions payments. It's all the consequences of privatizing everything that happened when people went into retirement, before retirement, when they retired with a few years of working hours, that no contributions were paid. But it's behind us now. Certainly, these pensioners and everyone else can expect to get their pensions in line with the cost of their lives and pay raises. We've already been in line in 2012. In 2014, because the parameters did not show us an increase, such an increase in wages and an increase in the cost of life, there was no harmonisation. But for 2015, we expect that harmonisation in the second half of this year is likely to be determined, and for this, funds are foreseen in the position of the Pension Insurance Office. We protect the peace system, pensions are paid, pensions are paid regularly, and that's what this government has done. She has secured the social state, made sure that the social state works and is seen for example in these lowest pensions that are low that there is no social state, that there is no social system for our social system, and that those pensions would not be that small as they are. What is quite certain in the future of strengthening the economy, increasing the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia, will also strengthen the pension system, which, as you know, is based on three pillars and this first pillar of intergenerational solidarity will remain exactly in the future for all of our fellow citizens who, during their working life, will have no happiness and the possibility of getting a pension that is worthy of them for a safe life below the poverty line. Therefore, these pensions will also be coordinated and will be greater in the future. Our goal is to never be below the poverty line, but for that we need a strong, therefore strong economy, we need more employees. So, all those who stand out in the first retirement column. The peace will also be paid in 2015, will arrive on time, will be harmonised and that is what this government has maintained, and that is that we have maintained the social security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96807	Thank you. Commentary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96808	We understand that this issue is very complex and in our opinion no effort is too much when it comes to the protection of pensioners. It certainly needs assistance for pensioners living in the poverty zone and who do not have additional income. The information from the Peace Institute shows that every year more and more pensioners go to that lowest pension and that is why we will be grateful to any government effort they will make on this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96809	Thank you. The next question is asked by colleague Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96810	Thank you, dear Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Lalovec. We will surely all agree that one of the most recognizable measures of this government was the introduction of fiscalisation. A few days ago, you presented the latest data on the results of the fiscalization. In 2014 you stressed that almost 160 billion kunas of cash circulated in Croatia. This would mean that these indicators are more significant or 7% higher compared to 2013. Minister, we are looking from all sides and we can say that these are nevertheless encouraging economic indicators, that these are indicators and increases in spending in the Republic of Croatia, but they are certainly indicators of the introduction of order, indicators of consolidation and fiscal relations in the Republic of Croatia. So I'm finally interested in your opinion, are these real indicators of optimism, can they rely on all those other statistical indicators that talk about both increasing exports and on the structure of GDP, and are these actually real and real results of this government's 3-year work?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96811	Thank you. To the question of Minister Lalovac's answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96812	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, yes, the fiscalisation project is not only recognized in Croatia he is already recognized in Europe. I received a few months ago and a call from the Deputy Prime Minister of the Czech Republic who are very interested in this project to be implemented also in the Czech Republic and were actually very interested in how the Croatian government is, on the one hand, fighting over the gray economy, and on the other hand, it can measure daily citizens' spending. So this now enables us to actually at the daily level or not to say from second to second can be monitored by different activities in different parts of Croatia how much consumption is going on. So we now know for the first time that the biggest spending in the Republic of Croatia was for the holiday of the Great Lady, 14/08, during that period that even 10 million bills were issued daily, or on that day that there was cash traffic in the Republic of Croatia around 100 million euros. So these are certain indicators that can actually give you... that you can do certain economic and fiscal policies to adapt these models. However, what is very important to say is that when we visited not only the Czech Republic but also Slovenia and other European countries where they showed that Croatian smartness, Croatian IT companies can produce a very good product because you know that at EU level, the fight against the grey economy is strong and that Croatia is now ahead in Europe through this product. Unfortunately, we are constantly talking about some bad indicators, that we are not competitive, and here it turns out that we have very young and smart people, companies that can export this product to the Czech Republic as well. We have led many of our IT companies to go to the Czech Republic and that they can actually conquer European markets. So this is a good project that I'm sure still needs to be upgraded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96813	Thank you. No comment. The next question will be asked by counterpart Nevenka Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96814	Thank you very much. I have a question for the Minister of Civil Engineering Mrs. Dark Taritash. Dear Madam Minister, it has been 18 years since the Croatian Parliament ratified the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, but until today it has not been applied in this society because the rights of a category of people, primarily by the owner of private apartments, have been violated in continuity by the decision of the communist regime then, by means of a protection of the tenants and by force of the law, have been imposed on the owners to enter into contracts with them indefinitely with a protected rent of 2.70 kuna. Therefore, their ownership rights, right to property, the right to earn from their own property, the right to cancel the lease contract, which is why owners stand before the European Court of Human Rights for the protection of their rights. In these lawsuits they succeed and the final verdict was passed and became a power of power in October 2014 by which the owner received satisfaction, and the burden goes to the burden of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. In this judgment, among other things, it is stated that a whole set of mechanisms for protecting categories of protected tenants has been installed in Croatian legislation, and contrary to that, it is imposed on owners an excessive burden and there is no mechanism to protect their ownership, which is a direct violation of Article 1. Protocol to the Convention. So I ask you, is this government and you, as the holder of the draft amendments and the addition of the House Rental Act, really intend to put amendments to that law in the parliamentary procedure, and do you intend to make suggestions from the verdict into those amendments? Unless you intend to do so, does this government support the construction of a democratic society based on communist kidnapping?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96815	Comrade Becic, time. Minister Anka Dark Taritash will answer the question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96816	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The honourable MPs, therefore, are concerned with the Law on Renting Apartments, it is one law which the Government therefore made as soon as it entered into its duties in 2011 and in 2012, respectively, to propose amendments and additions to the law, in 2013, we had 2 public discussions for a month. We've had a few meetings with the owners that with protected tenants. Similarly, after these two public debates, we have consulted international experts on the subject and we have made a public call in 2014 twice a month in the media to inform us of protected tenants or owners that we can determine exactly what number of apartments we are talking about, that we can see the financial frameworks and the financial framework of all these actions, i.e. the consequences of amending and supplementing the law. The verdict has become a power of attorney, and we have analyzed the verdict and we have an obligation to install the elements of the verdict into our legislation. And as you can see in the proposal which is also on the Ministry's website and which we have referred further in the first half of this year, so in 2015, we will, after having held a public debate again for a month because it is a very sensitive problem to go to first reading, i.e. to the Government and then to the first reading in the Croatian Parliament with that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96817	Thank you. Here's a comment from my colleague, Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96818	I thank the Minister for the answer I am satisfied with in principle and I am deeply convinced that this government will end this Croatian shame because among other things I would point out that the ruling states that the constitutional principles of the Republic of Croatia are being violated because the Constitution guarantees ownership, and if property is limited, then it is the legislator's duty to build compensation in the market value, and the market value of this lease would be 25 times higher than the current one, so not 2.75 kuna but 65 kuna according to the European Court's ruling. Furthermore, if there is a political will to solve this problem can be very simple and this can be done in a way that allows owners to own their ownership and protected tenants to ensure adequate replacement apartments and to enable them to buy them under the same conditions as all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have bought out apartments where there were tenant rights. The funds for this are secured because of the example, I was president of the Split City Council, so I know the exact data, from 1992 to 2009, the city of Split has come from the sale of apartments of 223 million kuna, and from 2009 to 2022, it will receive another 25 million euros. So the means exist, there needs to be political will. I am convinced that this government will have the courage to end this Croatian disgrace at last. Thank you very much. I'd like a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96819	Thank you, too. The next one is for the question of counterpart Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96820	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question was addressed to Minister Zmajlovic, of course, regarding the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So all of us in Split-Dalmatia County, especially in the Long War, are interested in the status of resuscitation of the former Ferrolegura Dugi Rat factory and the correct information. In fact, we were all witnessing the announced investment of a very serious investor who bought the premises of the former Ferolegura factory in 2006 and the investment that awaits, and it is worth 450m euros from hundreds of jobs that should be opened. Before that, however, it is necessary to resuscitate that space. Both for a long time and as it was working on a certain partial recovery, and as there have been certain suspensions by inspections on the matter and resolutions that had even existed, there have been many questions as to whether this cost was waste, whether this cost of raw material, whether it was mineral raw material, whether it was a mineral wealth, was not a mineral wealth, since the cost was imported, and not originally natural Croatian. Is waste ultimately inert, dangerous or harmless, which is extremely important to all citizens? Is this investment actually going and will there be new jobs? And let's be honest, a lot of jobs are tied to the recovery itself. I'd like the minister to inform the public if I think it's very good and necessary to know which way it's going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96821	Thank you. Minister Zmajlovic will answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. As you said yourself, this was the recovery of the Long War of the former factory that started in 2009, certain permits were issued. Unfortunately, due to doubts about certain illegal activities, because the procedures initiated by both the State Attorney's Office and a series of competent inspections have issued solutions and bans, etc., but ultimately the ultimate objective of the recovery and initiation of the investment will depend solely on the fact that the investor has to complete the resolution programme because certain irregularities and shortcomings have been observed during the recovery itself, but everything related to the continuation of the work. Unfortunately, from 2011 to August of last year, the investor showed absolutely no interest in the fact that, based on the inspection order, the recovery programme should be completed and the ministry should also be given additional consent and opinion, it did not answer and therefore all the recovery activities were stopped. What we can confirm at this point is that the recovery programme is in the process of assessing where the expert commission is appointed, which will give an opinion through the legal procedure and then create assumptions from the environmental protection aspect of the recovery to continue, and then I believe the investment itself. As it is in the jurisdiction of several resors, from the aspect of environmental protection, we are most important that the recovery itself, but the current situation on the ground does not endanger people, citizens who live there and of course the environment. And it's in everyone's interest to bring this to the point and to do as you said yourself opening jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96823	Thank you. Here's a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96824	Thank you very much for your response. Of course, it's important that this security concerns all citizens living downstairs, as far as health is concerned. And what is very much looking forward to is that the ministry has also launched the commission that the investor has launched in terms of harmonising the Sanantia programme with the positive legal regulations and I hope and believe that then during this year, the work on the recovery will be launched which will essentially be able to create the preconditions for the realization of this extremely large tourist complex and investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96825	Thank you, too. The next question will be asked by Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. A year ago, I asked you at the current afternoon why you didn't even mention it during your entire term, let alone to do something about the most intelligent policy and show concern for the demographic development of Croatia. In fact, in the last 3 years your government has moved more than 50,000 people after bread because of the total economic breakdown caused by your government's inability to encourage economic development and investment. We are witnessing another mass exodus of Croats who unfortunately have several in history. However, unlike earlier waves of economic emigration from Croatia today, most of all, uneducated physical workers who planned to work abroad for 10 or 20 years do not leave for Croatia, and then return to Croatia with savings are mostly young, highly educated, the best, the most capable in which much has been invested and who should have been the future of Croatia and go with families and the intention to stay abroad forever because in this kind of Croatia you run no longer see any future. At the same time, about 10,000 Croatian citizens die more than they are born each year. 5% of children are born every year and the Croatian population is getting older. So today we're one of the world's top 10 demographic countries. Along with the growing household and the departure of thousands of young people, the question is who will work in Croatia. When you finally get out of power and the situation gets better, who's going to secure your pensions? Already today, we have about 1 employee in 1 pensioner who has no other country in the world and what is unsustainable for the pension system. You answered my question a year ago, and I quote, "The strategy will be over this year.". This has proved to be another lie because no strategy for demographic development, even less intelligent policies, has been made. So now a year later, I ask you again, will you at least start working on a national population policy strategy that should be an integral part of Croatia's development strategy? which your government also doesn't have? [[Intruder Batnic: Time.]] Would you like to start spending what is more important in a hurry? at least some measures to encourage birth and demographic recovery of Croatia [[Intruder Batinić: Time Vice President.]] Thank you. [[Intruder Batinić: Vice President, it's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96827	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic will answer the question. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96828	Academic Reiner, I long for a moment when when when you ask questions you will look at me and look me in the eye and not read from the paper. That moment will surely come because I want to debate with you, so that you really believe in what you read and believe, that you are able to say it. What the previous government did, I won't talk about it. What is this government doing? What he can and can do. Let's say that when I go to Gunj or the village of Raj, I talk to people who live on agriculture and have 3 children and these children travel 20 or more kilometers to the nearest high school in Županje, and it costs their parents 1,500 kuna a month and they don't have that money and the government has already acted at the beginning of the term. And in many counties, especially where there are our colleagues in power, it is not an accident, children have a completely covered cost of travel to high school from the place of residence because it costs, it is easy to talk about high school as free if you have to cash out monthly 500, 700, 2000 kuna for children to come to vocational school. It's the main barrier for people. You see, it's the most intelligent, it's demographic policy. That's what we do to kids, because otherwise they're going to give up, they have poor parents who have too much to spend on. That wasn't done before. We don't think we've found the means to do that, but we'll find more. It's a clagord for you, so we'll still find the funds so that even those in Gunja that the local county government doesn't care about at all, but all the states are taking over from the rebuilding of houses and everything, and they're going to finish the job, but they've practically finished it. We'll make sure they can go to high school for free. That's how those kids are gonna finish high school because you sure as hell won't give them 1,500 kunas to travel to County every day. They don't have that money, it'll give them state. This country, our country, my government. And you, I'm really saying don't take it as a provocation, when you ask such a burdensome question, look into your eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96829	Thank you. Commentary, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96830	Thank you very much. Of course I won't comment again on the way you're trying to answer something you don't know. So it wouldn't hurt you to read something sometimes and maybe look at some numbers because obviously you don't even read them. If you were to talk, you'd even know what an intelligent policy is, which is a demographic policy. With this answer, you have shown one complete ignorance, complete ignorance, and do not worry about what you show and your actions constantly. Are you aware that, compared to 2001, about 150 thousand people live in Croatia less? So you can look me in the eye now when I'm talking to you if you care so much that we're looking into each other's eyes because I'm talking about data that you don't know and you don't care about at all. And that's the problem, it's your problem and it's the problem of this country that unfortunately has you as Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96831	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96832	Thank you, Vice President... I ask my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although in one of your statements you denied the thesis that we have before us 10 months of cohabitation between the government and the newly elected president, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. It could even be said that it really is some sort of classical cohabitation, or co-habitation or co-operation of two statesmen coming from two world-wide different parties. What the co-habitation will look like when some foreign media assume the intensity of the newly elected Prime Minister is for two reasons. The first reason might be to challenge the election before the deadline, so before summer. If the first scenario fails, the second scenario would be to constantly attack you and the government to try to reduce the chances of the left in the upcoming parliamentary elections. What will you do to reduce the tension between the government and the newly elected president to the least possible measure? What are you going to do that, as announced by HDZ President Mr Tomislav Karamarko and as announced by newly elected President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, we do not return to the 1990s? One of those returns we experienced recently when Mr. Borovac called all of Ivo Josipovic's voters to the south, and HDZ did not respond to that. How will you react to the possible challenge of the constitutional crisis, especially when we know that your government is currently minority. What are you going to do to reduce this antagonism between two blocks to the lowest possible measure? And the last question, will you accept the recipe that Mrs. Colinda has that says that we become the richest and most successful country in the world within a very short time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96833	Thank you. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96834	Just one brief reflection on the previous important subject, you should listen to what the Holy Father says about people, about procreation policy, and when the Holy Father says that humans are not little animals. People are people, listen to what the Pope said yesterday in Manila. ... I'm sorry I dared say that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, but here's the quote from the Holy Father who's a funny man and makes sense of what he's saying, but good. Mr. Vuksic, this is actually a journalistic question, so I'm glad we share some of the world's points. I see that some of the things you've mentioned are bothering you, I'm getting sick, but I can't do it on my own side except do my job that's meaningful and important and I can't do much more. I don't actually give interviews in foreign newspapers these days where I'm underestimatingly treating my country, I don't remember ever doing that. It's my contribution to reducing tension, to be calm and doing my job, and let others see how they want to do it. This is not cohabitation, cohabitation exists in systems where presidential powers include, for example, the right to disband parliament every year as in France. It's a real cohabitation, and when that happens, the state has a problem. There were three of them in France if I wasn't mistaken in '86. The year Chirac and Mitteran and then... Mitteran then since '97. until 2002. ... and Chirac and it has a lot to do with the functioning of the state and the division of powers. Croatia does not have the problem, Croatia has a very clear constitutional order in which all internal and foreign policies, it says, are headed by the government and the government-Sabor route. He's working with the president, of course. The president can be very useful. For example, Mr. Josipovic was going to Central Asia countries and was actually opening up some stories about the work that the government later concluded, he was useful. In particular Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan, concrete jobs, specific orders, specifically for Croatian shipyards, construction companies, probably Končar as things stand, Gredelj etc. And that's what the president can do, according to the cohabitation in the Croatian constitutional order, I apologize for interpreting the Constitution, if no one will mind me, but I did some of the articles myself five years ago and someone who knows much more will probably show up tomorrow, but here I am making my modest contribution. The President is welcome, the Government is leading internal and foreign policy, the President will be happy to participate and discuss and consult on foreign policy, the President cannot assume obligations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia because no law is foreseen, but the President can do good things, it can do harm, it is all a matter of choice. We believe firstly that the president will do good things for Croatia. Therefore, there is only a common effort, a responsibility in the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96835	Thank you. No comment. The next question is raised by Goran Maric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96836	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to refer the question to Minister Lalovec. Dear Ministers, are monetary affairs the establishment of exchange rates or the formation of the value of domestic currency compared to other currencies in the sphere of government and parliament of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96837	Answer, Minister Lalovec, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MPs, these jobs are not in the domain of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but this was a sudden let's say currency shock on the world foreign exchange markets and since we have been looking for a number of instruments to protect citizens from this powerful currency shock, the Government has decided on this, in my opinion, an extraordinary situation because it has happened in the world's financial markets. But I believe that exchange rate institutions, which are the Croatian National Bank and business banks, are actually on foreign exchange markets, are mostly responsible for forming the course. Whether and how the Croatian National Bank will respond and participate in this solution to this problem should be seen and asked for answers as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96839	Thank you, too. Commentary, Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96840	Thank you very much. So when it is not possible for the Government to allow itself, and it imposes an anti-constitutional precedent on the Council that the Consumer Credit Act determines the value of the kuna in relation to the Swiss franc? Since when does the exchange rate determine where your other exchange rates are? If it doesn't sound a little weird, the government with its exchange rate and only one currency. Thus, the government will not solve it, it does not solve it, but complicates it, multiplys and postpones it, and the problem is unsustainable, and it was created when the Croatian National Bank allowed it as a regulatory body to appear on the financial market. The CNB should also withdraw and replace it with new loans in kuna or euro-related because I am sure the banks have tied approved loans to the Danish or Czech crowns or the Moroccan dirham to suspend such loans immediately. Why? Because they don't have banks or crowns or dirhams, but they don't have Swiss francs, and if they don't have Swiss francs, they don't owe Swiss francs. So they have nothing to protect themselves from, means they're speculating, means they're gambling with the fates of people and the financial system, and that means that the CNB is protecting and doing what should be prevented and not prevented. A bank called the people's didn't do anything for the people, for the people who bear the name. So what kind of bank is this, then whose bank is it? All assumptions were made only on the case of the Swiss franc to resolve the leadership of the Croatian National Bank which caused such a problem because it is responsible for such a problem. And regardless of the friendship Mr. Minister, initiate the procedure to resolve the management of the Croatian National Bank and you already have the first vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96841	Thank you, too. The next question is asked by counterpart Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. Mr. Minister, lately as a mantra repeats this government is doing nothing. I come from a county where the government is marked by the fact that it actually treats the citizens of that county as second-class citizens, and it is also said that all projects have stopped. On the other hand, the government is said to be constantly saying that connecting the Croatian South and resolving the traffic isolation of this part of Croatia, that these are actually a firm commitment of the Croatian government and that this year it will be seen that this government is on the right track. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, what phase are the projects at? For example, the Luke Ploče project, which should be a modern Mediterranean port, will play a major role in view of corridor 5C. Then what is with the Greek port project that will create new jobs as well. What about the project of connecting the south of Croatia, and what is, at which stage of the Dubrovnik Airport Project which, in fact, will, with this project we will have the expansion and increase of the capacity of Dubrovnik Airport, which is of exceptional importance since we know that over 60%, about 64% of traffic is actually carried out through the airspace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96843	Minister Hajdash Doncic, please welcome the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96844	Good afternoon. Well, hello, everyone. We're always on the right track, that's a good question and a good point. But let's maybe do a word on what's actually a mantra that repeats what you're talking about. Look, your mantra is actually a sanskrit, it's something of a lofty, freeing mind, this is more of a divine comedy that repeats, hell first, eighth circle, tar. But let's go back to actually investing in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Yeah, that's right. So this year they end or end their investment in the Port Authority of Ploče. That's where I'll be clear, at the Port Authority Panel. So, with the World Bank loan and the co-financing of the Croatian state that started in 2012 it is about 600 million kuna somewhere. But what generated it generated private sector investments, so Luke Ploče d.d. which through the sub-concession, therefore through private investments has already generated investments, of course, in energy of some half a billion kuna. So that's concrete. And what's also good and it's going to be one of the first funded projects I'm going to say to the EU road building in Croatia, that what we've been suspended, and these internal waterways have succeeded in talking to the European Commission, in fact, on roads and highways, and this part of the road that's missing, which I'm going to start building under quotes, I'm going to start building Croatian highways. That's the part that's missing entering the Port of Ploche. The opening of the competition is actually 23. And if all goes well, of course, no complaints, so in two to three months, the beginning of the work is expected. That's 80 million kuna, which means that the entire primary infrastructure, I'm talking about the railroad, is about highways then intended for Lucy Ploche. You also mentioned investing in a new terminal in Georgia. I can inform you that this is how we say that the first round of the competition is over, so now it's going to be the second round where we expect that in May or June a contract will be signed with a future concessionaire who then has because the projects are that, so there are two years to prepare the complete project documentation, but according to the first open one, so I say the offers again are about some half a billion kuna investments, so to the terminal and I'm going to say the accompanying infrastructure. Whether it's a infrastructure or a superstructure, so it depends on the investor himself. Furthermore, you know that the Croatian roads at the end of the year, so they signed a contract with the conductor for a feasibility study. So, connecting the Croatian South which must be completed by the 6th month, which means that then the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with all other studies, will be absolutely ready to apply for the integration of the Croatian South. And also through a pre-productivity study, it has been shown that the best solution, therefore, is the bridge which means an additional 2 billion kuna investment, both in the bridge and in the access roads. And what we are particularly pleased about, so one of the first projects that has also received a very high level of co-financing, so this is probably the merit of some others is in fact Dubrovnik Airport, which is an investment of more than one billion kuna, where I hope since there is, I will tell the Croatian two supervisors who decide on it – the head of competitiveness and the head of movement were very highly rated, so this project with almost 80%, which means that 80% of the total investment will be irrevocable and that the OP 2007-2013 will be used. for transport, N+3 is almost complete in 2016. So if we compare a little bit, so we don't share Croatia, but if we compare investments in the county personally, I think that the biggest investments have just been to Dubrovnik-Neretva County in the term of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96845	Thank you, too. No comment. The next question will be asked by counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96846	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My question is for Mr. Gordan Maras' minister of entrepreneurship and crafts. Mr. Minister, amendments to the VAT Act have introduced the possibility of VAT being paid on the bill, not as it has been issued so far. What interests me is the response of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, or interest in entering that system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96847	Thank you. Minister Gordan Maras will answer the question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96848	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Mr. Hajdukovic, thank you for this question. Today we have heard a few significant measures that this government has made this year in a few weeks of debt forgiveness, and, of course, we are talking about such things and in opposition we are dealing with looking for the jubilee in Croatia. We would like to have such proposals on the side of the opposition, perhaps some and adopted, and perhaps some could use it to improve the situation in Croatia, and not only to discuss these ideological topics that have long been behind us, means 50 years behind us, and to support the lowest passions that have led to this here is what I must now say to a journalist, and these are exclusively followers of our opposition. If you were a little more responsible, if you weren't supporting people, you probably wouldn't have such situations in Croatia. Now let me go back... About what? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's what I'll show you. Here it is, these are your followers, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96849	Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96850	These are your followers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96851	Minister, please don't pollemize. Answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96852	To return to this question, 120,000 entrepreneurs and craftsmen in Croatia come to this limit of 3 million kunas that we have determined that people can choose whether to pay VAT per charge or per invoice. And to this moment, even though it meant yesterday it was possible to plead, and we expect that a large part of the entrepreneurs and craftsmen will use it in the last day, at this point we have reached over 60,000 of those who have shown interest to continue such, or to start with such a but to continue with such a reckoning in the future. So over 50%. I am convinced that in the next few days, when all the data in the IRS are complete, we will have over 75 thousand entrepreneurs and craftsmen who will choose this payment model and thus help these people to do simpler business, to help them liquidally in order to tell them about a billion kunas of delayed tax payments help people to do simpler business in the Republic of Croatia. And I am convinced that many of those 75 thousand entrepreneurs and craftsmen will, as far as we estimate, be in this system because of this, be more successful in doing business and have fewer problems and will not close their business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96853	Thank you, too. We don't have a comment. The next question is asked by Frano Matušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96854	I intended to ask the question of the culture minister, Mrs. Violic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96855	The Minister's sick, she's justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96856	Then I can ask someone else a question, here's the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96857	Yes, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96858	I'll ask the Prime Minister a question. Why? Because I think it's a very important question and I think the prime minister should have responded. Namely, Mr. Prime Minister, given that there is no Culture Minister, I will ask you if you responded to the government's session on the publication of a book in Serbia entitled "The History of Dubrovnik Literature". It was published just before the end of last year, so a little bit of about a month ago, about a month ago, it was published, and of course it was about reaching again for the Croatian Dubrovnik cultural heritage where Croatian writers Gric, Gundulic and others are declaring themselves Serbian writers and where the literature, hence Dubrovnik's Croatian literature is declared Serbian literature. So I'm wondering if you've responded to that and have you told your culture minister that she's responding to this insolent provocation?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96859	Thank you. Prime Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96860	National consciousness includes both self-awareness and who I am and what I am. And if any nonsense that some semi-literate provoking in Belgrade has made me talk to the government of the Republic of Croatia, then we are weak in our faith who we are and who we are. In the 15th century, Jore Držić, Šiško Menčetić wrote on the waiting list. Well, that's just Croatian. If you're interested in what Croatian brains think about it, read Krleža, read his talks with Cengic where he speaks from the perspective of the events of the 50s and the Congress of Librarians in Dubrovnik, what he thinks about it and what a joke it is. Let's laugh about it. Croatia is stronger in this regard than Serbia. And let us not humble ourselves in front of ourselves; such are the pamphlets, and they shall be. Dubrovnik is a Croatian heritage. Not because someone prescribed it, but because people feel it. And you can't erase that. Like Dalmatia Croatia. When I asked my did years ago what are you, a Croat or a Dalmatian? He said it was the same. But don't forget you're Dalmatian. We need to know what we are, not that every matchmaker and provoker puts us in a position to question ourselves in the Croatian Parliament. We've got to move forward, we've got work to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96861	Thank you. Commentary, colleague Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96862	Thank you for shutting down Mr. Prime Minister. Of course I'm not happy with your answer. It's not about a semi-literate person, it's about a scientist, so one respected, in Serbia, respected scientist Dr. Zlati Bojovic, who is only in a series of one of their scientists, academics who reach for Croatian in this case literature, and in some other cases reached for Croatian territory. It's precisely that reach and capture that actually gives an argument to those barbarians that are in '91. They bombed the same Dubrovnik, which robbed and set fire to its surroundings, the Serb-Montenegro barbarians. And of course you need to react. A people who have their own culture, the foundations of which are Croatian Dubrovnik writers such as Zzić or such as Gundulić or scientists such as Ruđer Boskovic who are also their own in Serbia, a people who know what its foundations are, of course, should react to such a bold provocation. Otherwise we can repeat what happened to us in '91. Because that's how they're gonna feed you some future generations and tell you that Dubrovnik is their territory, right? That's what they said in the '90s, '91s. This isn't about Mr. President just whether we're aware. We were also aware of the '90s. And '70s. and 1900 and 1800, etc. and it is clear that Dubrovnik territory is unquestioned by the people who have been there since 97% I think in some parts and 100% etc. It's unquestionable. But we must be aware first of all that you must be aware that you must defend Croatian cultural heritage, and you do not do it as you do not defend Croatian national interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96863	Thank you. The next question is asked by colleague Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96864	Thank you, Vice President. My question will be to Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. The latest savagery of the Swiss franc is causing a terrible blow to 60,000 credit users and affects more than 200 thousand citizens, the consequences of this situation are the monetary policy of the CNB and Governor Vujcic, whom I see as I see it is the least concern for the current situation in which desperate citizens are. Neither he nor the Government cares about the conduct of sovereign monetary policy and the abolition of the foreign exchange clause and the assistance of citizens and the destroyed economy. And what do we have today? GDP decline 12 quarters in a row and a new bad forecast for 2015 with a fall of 60% from expected. We are all aware of the very difficult and serious situation in the country except for your vice president, Greek, who is spreading optimism to the unprecedented borders. It's about long tunnels, exhausting marathons, slow fallouts and endless exit from the crisis. A failed policy presents as a success. And the best information about successes is the annual decline of average family income for 7.667 kuna. Because of the ruined standard, but also the constant savings against citizens with visible consequences everywhere around us, it turns out that this is still the most successful measure of this government. So my question is, how much longer will the denial of the victim have to endure desperate citizens in the last year of your term?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96865	The Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96866	You manipulate your colleague's data and it's pretty bad. The data on the drop in income that you made refers to a period of 7 years from which the lion's share is, the lion's share refers to the first two years when the biggest fall was. But let's let it go now. I spoke at the beginning of this current morning in detail, both by data and by attitude and by guard, of what we are going to do about it, I will not now resort to your desire to argue about it. We're probably thinking the same thing. Once again, the CNB may have been able to act in 2006, in 2005, that the then government had squeezed it, that there was more visibility, that there was the skepticism of the healthy human as in Austria. So Franak shares that paper or form that Austrian banks were obliged to give to people if in Austria he also offered a loan in francs, almost no achtung on that with totenkopf. So be careful what you do to the Austrians it can be good but it can be bad. That's not what we've been doing. Should the Ministry of Finance remember then, we were here with a weak experience. The governor at the time had a rather relaxed relationship, I hope not out of his political ambitions, and he's in charge. This new governor cannot do these miracles, from now on we will be on this task as we have been on this task of passing the law on fixing the course of francs. And one more thing, about this provision is very important, and I personally insisted that I not write that I take responsibility for the debt or damages taken over by financial institutions, that is, so that banks don't get up in one year with lawsuits against debtors. Let them appeal to the Constitutional Court who, unfortunately, has been holding an initiative in the drawer for four years to review the constitutionality of the currency clause. I didn't start that initiative, but I'd like to see things like that not go any faster, but if it wasn't in the drawer, that's where it's been for four years. We're not responsible for that. And another illustration, what happens in Croatia and just a few other countries, and why this is particularly difficult. When the real estate market collapsed in America and people started leaving houses and everything happened, one thing happened, so the people were in charge had no net value because the price of the property they bought on the loan fell below the value of the loan three years earlier. It's a problem in itself, most people are the only value they have and it's a terrible earthquake in America. This happened to us and so the man who paid or the family who paid the apartment 2,000 euros per square, today has an apartment worth 1,300 euros, that's the first problem, that's the first drama. The second drama in order not to be all over is that many of them have to pay double the loan war, which is unfortunately an elementary disaster, and it's more with finances and bank balances has nothing to do with it. It's a clean policy, it's a clean state where decisions have to be made that will lead to banks being minimally profitable, and now they're fine-tuned. So we have to keep the banks safe but stick to some kind of measure. We are currently under the burden of long groaning potentially the most pro-pulsory part of the population, consumers. The pilot I spoke to the other day has a salary of 13 thousand kuna, less than in Croatia Airlens flies a canadera, his wife doesn't work, the man is on the verge of existence, the kind of existence that according to his status, knowledge, skills, the rank has the right. Who's to blame? There's no point in talking about it anymore. We're looking at what we can do now and in these next few months. I don't want people to come protest in front of the People's Bank, you can't ban it, that's not the solution. That's why I'm gonna ask the governor to sit down for the tenth time. And just a few more sentences, because I talk to that governor all the time. The former governor with the government has not communicated for two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96867	Thank you. Comment on Zlatko Tušak's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96868	Yeah, first you said I was reading the wrong data and then you said it yourself that the price of real estate fell. And why did the price of real estate fall? Well, it fell because the purchasing power fell to the citizens and was less demand. Anyone who wanted to sell the property couldn't sell it. And the data that I've provided is official data from the State Statistics Office which is talking about 2013 this year. And you're telling me now that since 2013, by now, a year has changed the standard and increased the standard of citizens and that they have higher incomes, which is not true. That's the same thing if you were to say, then you're talking about the wrong data. And I want to say, among other things, that it would encourage consumption and the last measure that you set up in a way that you give citizens more money, it's a income tax where you release a part of the citizens to have more money but which will be the result you neither analyze nor want to present to the public. And this is where two-thirds of the citizens will get from 30 kuna to 100 kuna and one-third of the citizens from 100 kuna to 1000 kuna. Who are you helping, then, and will the effects be greater consumption? I'm sure he won't. It's a completely wrong measure, and I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96869	29th question. Vice-President Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96870	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will refer my question to the Minister of Economy, Mr Ivan Vrdoljak, and it is related to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in our part of the Adriatic. Mr. Prime Minister, the government has made a decision to launch investigative works on 10 research fields in the South and Central Adriatic. At the stage of what precedes it is also negotiating concession agreements. So I want to know what benefits or effects these research works will have and ultimately the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic and for the economy and also for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96871	Minister Ivan Vrdoljak answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96872	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Your Honor, for your honors, and for your representatives, let's take it one step at a time. So these permits, we have issued the permits as a foreplay for negotiations on a production-sharing contract that should follow up to 2.4 in those offers that we received directly during the research phase are minimally guaranteed by investors by 4 billion kuna of new investments. 4 billion kuna and some global averages also say that 60% of this type of investment usually ends up on a home country, so to speak, in a local component. Which means that we can say that nearly 2.5 to 3 billion kuna investment directly without the government's share of the Republic of Croatia will come in the next few years in the research phase. However, the stage of research is the stage of research. What I want to point out here is that there are a lot of those who are against this project. You know why? Because there are a lot of those who sell oil today in Croatia and who today sell Croatian gas and would like what they sell so that Croatia never becomes an exporter of gas and oil. There are many who sell the same gas and the same oil to our friends from Hungary, Slovenia and Austria. And if Croatia increases its production, it disrupts their business because it is not good for some good new producer to appear in the region. And it is you who most wish nothing was done in Croatia. Perhaps they were also the reason that nothing had been done for 25 years because it was strange that it was just not working for us and it was working in Italy, it was working in Israel, it was working in Greece, it was the only thing that was not working in Croatia, Albania and Montenegro. Interesting, but well, now we're here to change these things. What comes after that? Then we are the ones who manage, who can manage in a few years with the Croatian industry in a way that combines it with wood, not to export wood, but to build a factory and export furniture. Not to export crude oil, but to build a factory, spend gas, export the product. We spend oil, we export oil derivatives whatever they are, whatever volume they're in. It will be someone in some future time when the production that will be run by governments, who must think that Croatia will not be any colony. And that's when the greatest industrial effects come. We started a project that is not a project that can be sold once in elections like many in Croatia but also benefiti will come in a number of years but someone should sometimes go and take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96873	No comment on the 29th question, colleague Vanja Posavac. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96874	There he is. I'm sorry. I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, and I refer my question to Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and Pension System. Dear Ministers, we can see by following statistics that the number of unemployed at the beginning of this year is lower by about 50 thousand than a year ago or indeed positive shifts are seen. But one of the key problems in the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately throughout the European Union, continues to be the unemployment of young people. How do you plan to solve this problem in Croatia? Or, I ask you to be specific and specify through which programmes, through which groups will young people be able to use funds, for which activities and how much of these funds are planned to finance all programmes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96875	Answering Minister Miranda Mrsic's question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96876	Thank you very much. Croatia is a country that has a large number of unemployed young people and here we share a place with Italy, so depending on statistics we are 3rd and 4th or vice versa. However, the measures we launched in 2012 and expanded in 2013 yield results. We have reduced the number of unemployed young people from about 50% to 41% and looking at the number of unemployed in Croatia regardless of all attempts to explain why this number is less than that ominous forecast of 400 000 that was expected to be in January and February of this year, there will be nothing. So the employment started in Croatia. Last year, over 225 000 of our fellow citizens received jobs, either in seasonal employment, or in contracts at a certain time and on contracts indefinitely. However, it is clear that Croatia must preserve young people to stay in Croatia, not to go to other markets because other markets also work and have problems like we have with our young people, if we don't stop them and leave them in Croatia, we will allow their labour market to expand, and we will have to import another workforce into our labour market outside Croatia. Therefore, the guarantee for young people starting in 2013, which should be de facto in 2015, we also have the approval to spend the funds, is a measure that goes towards giving a young man a job, teaching, training or education within 4 months. You remember the measure of work without establishing a working relationship that was attacked from all sides. Last year, 37,000 young people gained that year’s work experience. But not the most important thing is that over 60% of them have been employed within 6 months of the end of that year. Last year, 8500 young people took on a business venture on the labour market through self-employment. Over 70% of these companies remain on the labour market in the second year since they started their business. I am glad that, despite some forecasts again, we always think the worst, that we can't, that we don't know is a country that is in the first 60 operational programmes approved by the European Commission and the first funds when we talk about the operational programme of the European Social Fund have arrived in Croatia, 15 million euros has taken place at the expense of Croatia 31.12.2002, allows us to have 500 million kuna in our budget this year demanding employment policy measures and 600 million kuna coming from the European Social Fund, which is over 1 billion, so 1 billion and 200 million kuna. I note that in 2011, we had only 250 million kuna in the budget for these measures, which says that this government is extremely socially sensitive, that the measures it takes to improve the position of young people in the labour market. I also thank you to the parliamentary deputies who have raised your hand to change the Law on pay contributions where we have allowed young people to receive a contract indefinitely and that this contract gives the employer the right to be free of salary contributions over 5 years, which is an extremely strong measure for the employment of young people, but also an extremely strong population measure because young people with a contract of indefinite time can start a family, can resolve the housing issue. Therefore, these are all measures that go towards population policy, the remnant of young people in Croatia and improving the position of young people in the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96877	Thank you. No comment. 30 questions will be asked by colleague Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96878	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I ask my question to Minister of Finance Boris Lalovec. I must admit that I remained quite unpleasantly surprised when I read in an international magazine the other day a statement by the new Croatian president in which she looked pretty negatively at state finances. This so far in Croatian history since the independence of the Homeland War, which united us, has not been a practice, because regardless of political recommendations within the country, political disagreements, together we have performed uniquely, we have defended our institutions, we have defended our country. We were advertisers, so we advertised our country and represented and defended its interests. This led to international recognition, leading to the entry into Euro-Atlantic integration, NATO, the European Union from 1.7.2013, and this is definitely the way to defend national interests. So, we can also argue here in an argument, but when we're out, when we're out of our country, let's be proud of who we are, let's be proud of Croats and represent and defend our institutions and our country. And that's why on that very trail, seeing what Mr. Minister Finance has said, which is that the budget deficit is reduced by 3 billion kuna and what the last financial year has been completed, it certainly means a lot saving that of 3 billion kuna and that is a message to European institutions, but also to external financial institutions. It means to me, in fact, what it means for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and whether the savings of 3 billion kuna will leave them without any right.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96879	Thank you. Minister Boris Lalovec responds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96880	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Representative, yes, it means no Croatian citizen in 2012, 2013 and 2014 as regards public finances all the commitments made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and which have contractual relations are paid. So pensions are paid neatly, and health care services are paid neatly, and we know that in 2013 and 2014 we added to the health system 6 billion kunas so that the health system can fulfil certain obligations. And when we talk about certain savings made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is public and important to say that in 2014, what the Government did to its policies total 21.4 billion kuna, in 2011 in the election year the salaries amounted to 22.8 billion kuna. This means a billion and 400 million kuna is spent less on the salary system in 2014 than it was spent in 2011. The system of material costs in 2014 7 and a half billion kuna, so we went down to 2007 as regards the rationality of the management of pre-election costs in 2011 the system of costs of material kunas was 8.7 billion. So a billion and 200 million kunas were spent more in 2011. The subsidy system also in 2014 is 5.2 billion kuna, 2011. 6.6 billion kuna. So this shows that the government, so it can rationalize its policies, means not to go crazy cutting, but that it can manage business effectively and stabilise both public finances and public debt. And the rational behavior in 2011 and 2014 tells you this information about material costs, wages and subsidies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96881	A comment? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96882	So I can only, so I can only conclude that nothing will reduce any rights to Croatian citizens. That's what I could read out of the question. Here's a thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96883	31 questions from counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96884	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I ask my question to the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic. The issue comes from the privatisation area, and in a concrete case, the hotel-tourism company Primošten, which, according to the press, passed on to the ownership of the Diamant Marine company, which then bought more than 60% of its shares from the Croatian Privatisation Fund for one and a half million kuna, when it is known what the hotel-tourism company Primosten includes, is then fully clear that the price of one and a half million kuna is symbolic. Namely, it's the Primosten marina, it's a series of hotels in Primosten, it's a Primosten car camp. And then through the public, this sales was argued by the customer's obligation to recapitalise, i.e. investment, and put all facilities that were in derelict condition and off-function for the purpose, thus allowing the normal functioning of all these tourist resources normal employment and normal income. Today 13 years later, a summer view of these facilities shows that no acts of the contract have been carried out. That's quite clear. The hotels are in the air, the marina is in function, of course, as the most attractive part. I ask the question, Mr. Prime Minister, are you ready, and I have asked you this and in writing there are two months, so I have not received an answer whether you are willing to use your authority, and I finally believe that this is your obligation, to give it to the Croatian public, and especially to the people of the Primosten region a clear answer to the question if they are not, and it is evident that the acts of the contract you intend to take to protect the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia whose property they were and what you intend to do that these hotels and these tourist resources are finally put into office.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96885	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96886	Dear counterpart Baranovic, you will be given a written answer because it is very specific things. I know in principle what this is about, but for example, this particular example I want to talk about in general. We also have a situation in Krk, Halud. So, in 2001, another investor was Russian, but it could also be Chinese or American came, bought it, and probably imagined it would build apartments there. To this day, therefore, one of the seventies of Croatian tourism from the 1970s where the monden guests who spent a lot of money was in the air, in the air, in the salads and in the masquerade there. And now what's going on? So obviously whoever had the money who knew where he got it from here invested that money in the real estate and was waiting for his day. The local community, although it's quite a rich community without Halud. But imagine what she'd be like with Halud. There's nothing the local community can do about it. The state, too, has personally assigned two people to work on it since the first day of office, because it was a thorn in my eye in some way as an example, as an example of fraud. A scam where someone who has a lot of money comes, buys and waits. He can't build apartments, of course he won't be given any spatial plan. I mean, there's no one who would shoot himself in the leg or in the knee like that, but the result is there's nothing. And the man's waiting, because he's heavy or his financiers are heavy millions. Malinska has no hotels, no stalemates. What do you need to do? That's the theme for this year. Drive them out with smoke like I don't say who to tax, kill them with taxes. You don't? You'll pay a full tax, you'll pay a fine tax. We've never done that before. You're waiting for it to turn into apartment land, you won't see it coming. You're gonna pay that annual tax, so let me be told that it's unconstitutional that's greater than the value of that land. Get out, raus! We've never done that before, now we will. I know a concrete example when a Russian tycoon in one so-called ski resort in the neighbouring country threw his eye at a hotel and wanted to build his villa there in the same gabarites. He couldn't, they didn't give him that either, regardless of billions of euros. Here you go, build a hotel, rebuild it, so you can rent it all and be the only guest inside. And in the end, that's how it was. Now, that's space management. We're not as bad as they are, because we didn't let 5,000 apartments be built there, and we won't. But I mean, there's no optimization of ownership. So someone who had money bought it and waited, speculated. Now you're gonna pay a fine tax, so I'm gonna make you sell it, and someone's gonna come and build it. Here's my answer, and for this you'll get a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96887	Petar Baranovic, commentary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96888	Thank you. I asked you, Mr. President, because I am asking questions in writing to provide me with reviews of the contract not only of this privatisation case, but also of the TLM case, to carry out an insight as a parliamentary representative whether or not the acts of the contract have been carried out. Now I ask you one more hypothetical question, if the acts in the contract are not carried out, because they didn't come here with money but only with promises, what do you intend to do to get it back into the ownership of the Republic of Croatia? And in a written question that I finally asked you as a third written question, I made it clear that you were ready to release together with this government the law that would allow full transparency and insight into all privatisation contracts? Because there was enough behaviour of Croatian politics to cover with a fig leaf a crime that was completely evident. Hundreds of millions of euros and perhaps billions of Croatian citizens' assets by privatising them were turned into private property by very strange contracts. Most of it had a fiasco. Tens of thousands of workers are out of work. And on a parliamentary representative's request, if he can make an examination of the contracts to see if the matter is clean or if I don't get an answer that it's a business secret. Who is this punk who can set such a thing up and who can draw up a contract in a way that sells the property of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens can be considered a business secret? I asked you a question not only as prime minister but as the man Zoran Milanovic I met a few years ago, seeing him as someone who has the courage... this sort of thing. Now I ask Zoran Milanovic's man is he ready to drive the honey out of his den? Is it ready to send a bill under which privatisation and its contracts will be made available to representatives of the Republic of Croatia or to representatives and protectors of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96889	Thank you. 32nd question, colleague Mladen Marelić. ... I've got the right order, and here's the mistake. [[You don't understand.]] A colleague, Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96890	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I ask my question to Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Dear Ministers, we are aware that the fisheries sector, mainly fishing, has seen a number of changes on the day of Croatia's entry into the EU and has been imposed on it by various restrictions. First of all, in accordance with the provisions of Mediterranean navigation, and this has led to the question of the very existence of Chapter 13. Fishing in the negotiation process related, fishing in most of these restrictions was at least possible to alleviate these problems. But unfortunately it wasn't done. However, how would this sector be helped what the Ministry of Agriculture has done to help the fishermen who have been cut off in this matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96891	Minister Tihomir Jakovina responds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96892	Dear Vice-President, Honored colleague Marelić yes, Chapter 13, we have quite expressly closed down, we have provided almost nothing of a derogation or exemption from the Mediterranean regulation for Croatian fishermen. Your question was what the Ministry of Agriculture did during this period. First of all, we have come up with management plans for the application of the drawbar network and the surrounding network of swimmers, which actually solves 90% of Croatia's fisheries problem and has been confirmed by the European Commission. Furthermore, together with the Republic of Italy and Slovenia, we are developing a proposal for a regional plan for small blue fish, on which we, as partner countries, will arrange a way to fish blue fish and solve some other problems that are related to fishing and possible derogations. Through the management plan, we made a proposal to the commission and certain new derogations and exceptions, which relate to the size of the eye of the net itself and the possibility of fishing at a smaller distance from the coast of 3 nautical miles. We're actually hoping that some of those derrogations will pass. In case it doesn't pass, we have the funds in the funds where there will be compensation for certain tools that will be withdrawn from fishing and where they will not be able to fish. It's from what we've done about economic fishing. As for and we had a few weeks ago here in this respected, in front of this respected House change and addition of the Marine Fisheries Act where we finally arranged another obligation that was agreed or missed when closing Chapter 13, and we are talking about small coastal fishing where we were coastal fishing with nearly 11 thousand users committed to stripping at 3.5 thousand holders of small coastal fishing permits. We've regulated the law, we've brought in sublaws and modes and models that will actually be transparent for 3.5 thousand people who will be able to deal with this kind of fishing. Those who are unable to comply with the clear criteria are determined to be able to obtain permits for recreational fishing and fishing... with a long-term no fee. And most importantly, through the 2007-2013 operational programmes, we have secured 11.6m euros for 3 measures where tenders are already being opened. We are talking about an investment in aqua culture where for 5 million and 100 thousand euros projects have arrived almost 9 million euros. By mid-February, there will be decisions and realisation and movement in these projects. The other two measures where tenders are under way, and this is a temporary suspension of fishing and a permanent suspension of fishing. Through the operational programmes of 2015-2020, we have provided new 300m euros for our fishermen and these competitions are starting mid-2015-20. 2014 90 million, 2015. 115 million kuna State aid for fisheries in cooperation and partnership with fishermen. In some ways, we have conducted a fishing policy that is consistent with the common fisheries policy in 2015-2020 and for Croatian fishermen. I am sure in fact through this stated that we have shown the importance of good use of funds and in the fisheries sector by the number of projects that have been reported we see that there will be a very high usability of the funds themselves and this is the best way to boost the competitiveness of our fishing sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96893	There's no comment. 33rd question from counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96894	Mr. President of the Croatian Government, in my first and most recent report on the work when you mentioned Krajiška as a model of this unreal spending of money on the asphalting of a road then I asked you and in answer you said that you would do something about the work on the part of the state road D38, in the area of Požetina where the investment of Croatian roads on the stocks that were in excellent condition so a completely good asphalt came a new investment and some kind of micro-asphalt was put in place and were actually destroyed by those good roads. So the state money was spent without reason across Croatian roads, and a bad asphalt was set up. The contractor is a private company that doesn't matter what it's called, I have no intention of dealing with this company at all but I'm interested in the question of public interest and responsibility. Can we establish some kind of responsibility that such things are simply and not happening in road construction? Because today Croatian roads are one big investor, one big consumer of state money, and there is obviously plenty of room to deal with seriously, see what they do and how they do and that these irrational things don't happen. Are we also addressed by people who ask for 100, 200 kunas and who don't have that money and we sometimes spend millions of kunas on very strange procedures and end up in a situation that's worse today than it was before the operation was ever done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96895	The Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96896	Your Honor, I am truly pleased by your question, or that is a comment and a view of the problem that is identical to mine. What I was saying a while ago in the Parliament, you are now repeating it once again, and we are finding out that money is often run irrationally and I am giving you benefit doubts, so it is said, while the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure does not exactly check if it is not already what it is, and then we will seek responsibility because it cannot happen. What happened at my doorstep must not happen where the state is responsible. The state is not responsible in the city of Zagreb, the city of Zagreb is sharing money with city districts and, hey, stop spending as much as you know. 100 meters away is a kindergarten that has been sneezing and a school that is 100 years old, a monument to a culture that is falling apart. That million kuna could have done a lot of work there. That was my example. And I'm glad he came to me as an ace on the day of the Parliament's debate on the state budget. Your example is similar, we'll check and we'll act. Thank you. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96897	Drazen Djurovic comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96898	Thank you. So I'd like a written answer. Now I'm going to expand your subject a little bit, so it's a tender that was called in June of last year, the 1st of September was accepted 4 tenders were held, which is Eastern Croatia, Central Croatia, Primorska and South Croatia. The total value of these tenders was with VAT of 37 million kuna. In all four tenders went through one and the same company that ruined that asphalt in our house. The company has 300 employees at the moment after the company suddenly started working all over Croatia on all 4 of these tenders, starting to place the micro-asphalt. Well, with 300 people, half of Croatia can go paved. They took a wide variety of subcontractors, a month after this same company on Mljet, I won't tell you what it said, the locals have raised a riot on Mljet, they're standing on Mljet with plates and they're stopping the works because they're ruining their asphalt. The same company a year earlier in the Zagreb road in Dubrovnik also develops problems and subsequent works, so on Cres, the same thing. So we have a series of events related to ma I'm not going to mention at all, it's not a business issue but a model where 37 million kuna is no longer small money. One serious event. Is there a responsibility in Croatian roads too that they can claim that a company with 300 employees can place this asphalt throughout Croatia and that the quality of these works is very bad, very doubtful and I really think it would be good to determine who requested it, why it was implemented, the way it was implemented and whether there are any elements of criminal responsibility. That's why I'm asking for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96899	34th question from a colleague of Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96900	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll refer my question to the Prime Minister. Mr. President Tihomir Jakovina Pharmacy, Andrea Zlatar Violić used money from the budget for his magazine, Siniša Varga three times in conflict of interest, I am pleased that the minister confirms this fact, Deputy Minister Cesarik, Branko Shegon, Mario Moharić, Željko Sabo, Marina Lovrić Merzel abuse of position and authority. You know them, they're your colleagues, some ex-boyfriends. The abovementioned officials in the conflict of interest have been given the opportunity to gently pay their non-communities for the wars, but I ask you at the same time what to pay 320 thousand blocked citizens, 327 thousand unemployed, what to pay 25 thousand craftsmen who had to close their crafts? What about six years of recession? What about six years of recession? What about the embarrassing position of Croatia, which according to relevant data at the bottom of the investment, you probably know that, competitiveness at the rate of economic growth. What about the debt in the last three years almost 80 billion kuna? The other day, you put us in charge of almost a billion euros. That's the reality you're talking about, this is the best and most honest government ever. The peak of irony, with all the problems that Croatia has, you said on the night of Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic's victory when you said we are the only dam from the return of the criminal cooperative to power. We've got the state, we're the state and they're the hiducia. Mr. Prime Minister, if you do not have the strength to congratulate the electoral winner, then I ask if you have the strength and will you apologize to the Croatian public for your statements?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96901	The Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96902	Since this is the last question that I liked today after your reaction to my answer I'm going to go do a serious job, whatever you think about it, and what you said would a popular cartoon character say caramba. Karamba. There are people in the SDP and in our government who are under investigation by the D.O.R.H., some of them are also accused, there are people who have found themselves in conflict of interest because of their indemnity. Those who deliberately pushed through HBOR there, one of those names you mentioned, were expelled from the government. But these others, it happens, so in conflict of interest, they're no longer in conflict of interest, it's not a crime. There are also my associates, who are not directly my co-workers, but are party associates, selected by the convention that is upon my grief, I must say under the investigation of the DORH, some of them also accused, some who were in Serb camps during the war, defended Croatia, destroyed tanks, I did not but they did, won the elections, are now in trouble. Look, it's not easy for me, what do I do, get my shoulders down and get out of the party's presidency, so shut them off from the party and the Sisak County, unfortunately, that's right, I don't think I can congratulate my wife on Christmas, so congratulations on Christmas at the end. See, that's the difference, so that's how we do it. And when someone from another party, I'm not going to mention here that I wouldn't mind, that you wouldn't have to apologize again for your member of the presidency, for your member of the presidency that's under investigation or who's under investigation for a very serious crime towards the position of the DORH, then the message is you're ours, we don't give it to it is a political process. And that's why I'm really surprised that you're even opening such topics. So people are wrong, they're in conflict of interest, they're being accused, they're being investigated. Me and my associates react sometimes heavy hearts in a way, in front of the SDP there is a Croatian state, in this case represented by the DORH not the DORH police and the people behind it in the DORH. I can make a mistake. But at that point, I may not be smaller than a macaque but smaller than a DORH. The way each other's party behaves, so everyone sees it. And this is a political process, encouraged by such people in common photography, waving the flags of musculfiber is derived from waving the flags. It's bad, it's very bad, it's very immoral. And we're going back to one of your colleague's previous issues in these lines that I've offered the job of how our children view it. I'm not pretentious in these things, home education I appreciate, but he's not everything, it's not good if he turns into hypocrisy, if he turns into nod, if he turns into lack and absence of attitude, character. The character is being built. These paths are dull and complicated. So I'm not gonna tell you to mess up at your doorstep because there are no brooms like that, they haven't figured it out yet in Japan. But look, I mean be critical of yourself, so I'm wrong too. For now, I'm not serious. And when it comes to conflict of interest. That's where the man boasted he was co-owner of the company. What he doesn't know is if it's a conflict of interest, is he allowed to be co-owner, I guess he can be co-owner, or I have no idea. Okay, here's the thing, and it's behavior. So I've been talking to you and I've known him for 25 years or 25 years with you, and that's the same home education that I'm holding for as long as it takes. That's it, so not too much, but it's important to me again. But we can't even bring up home-grown politics. It's a matter of morality, character, determination, endurance, education, all that a little bit. And now we're finally here, as she says that song I can see clearly now. Now I see clearly, all the clouds are gone and here we are... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96903	And in politics there can be honesty. Sunny Glavak comment on the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96904	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, we absolutely don't find anything funny. And if you like to read comics and love and English then I'll just tell you the dysaster of what you just said. They appear to condemn and save another Saba, that's what was said. Preventing your colleague Linic from carrying out the actions he warned about. It's a reality. You say we have to go forward we have work to do. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, 80% of pensioners live on the edge of poverty, 10 to 15% of citizens live on the edge of poverty. You're telling us you're spreading optimism. You're watching us wave our flags and why wave to our banners, so what's wrong with that? Why do you see it as a bad phenomenon? Mr. Prime Minister, you're talking about home-schooling. The home education is to rise above your ego, to congratulate someone, and to apologize to someone. That's the size of a man, that's what we're talking about if we're talking about morality. The truth is we can all make a mistake, we never know, but the same size is to know that mistake, admit it, listen to the talker. Selective justice is the greatest injustice. And so when I ask you a question you always have some jumps, you think you're very funny and fun, you laugh at yourself. So we don't find anything funny. You are disputing Croatian society, Croatia does not deserve it, and the community is a completely unknown word for you. And so please, if it's possible to do as little as possible because everything you did to us was just getting worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96905	35 questions from counterpart Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96906	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Social Policy and Youth, Mrs Milanki Opačić. On the current morning, on May 14, 2014, I asked you a question of what you are actually doing, and your government is also doing or intending to take action to stop the alarming trend of the emigration of young people from Croatia. To this day, I asked for a written answer, until today I didn't get it probably because you obviously don't have an answer to that question, and maybe that problem doesn't exist for you. Today I could actually ask you about your responsibility regarding the Constitutional Court's decision to suspend the entire Family Law that happened for the first time in the history of the Croatian state. But I'm not going to ask you about that either because almost the entire professional and general public in the Republic of Croatia has spoken about it. Your ministry is applicable primarily to social welfare policy and to socially endangered and poor people. However, instead of combating poverty and social exclusion, you, after the adoption of the Social Care Act from 1.1.2014, suspended Croatian poverty, mostly families with more than 174 million kunas, and almost 9%, because the social care expenditure in 2014 has been reduced compared to 2013. So I ask you why you ignored the key points of the Europe 2020 strategy, the European Commission's basic document on combating poverty and social exclusion, in your failed attempts at your strategy and reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96907	This is Vice President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96908	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Well, I don't know what to say, this is just a bunch of inaccuracies, but you're entitled to them as an opposition party that always tries to make things much worse and blacker than they are. So Mrsic here spoke very extensively about the guarantee for young people who were among the first or first accepted as an operational programme to help young people get to work. It's one of the concrete answers that young people don't go outside. Secondly, about 33,000 jobs were saved in pre-fashion deals. These are all the people you can multiply from 2 or 3 times how many they have in their household. People who could slip away into poverty and in these blockades didn't slip away just thanks to pre-fashion deals because these jobs were saved. That's how many they couldn't open. Secondly, we are about the very sociality of reform and the merger of social benefits, but much more through the application in which we removed people who used an unregulated system that we inherited, the money was redistributed in a way that we increased the social compensation for singles because singles are in all indicators and in Croatia, but also in Europe those most in the area of poverty. On the other hand, it should be said that one of the measures that has taken place and which is on your part, but also by one part of the media has been declared by one very bad measure, this measure for professional training. Remember yourself, they laughed at 1600 kunas by exploiting young people and so on. I will tell you that today is the result and the result of this measure that somewhere around 60% of these young people have found a job, which means that these years of work experience really helped them find a job. So these are some of the measures that went exclusively to those who are young, who need to gain employment and those who are socially at risk. I'm going to remind you once again of this debt write-off to the most socially endangered where somewhere around 60,000 people should be resolved for the biggest part of the debt. Some will most likely be completely devoid of debt, which means that they will be able to breathe normally. And as for cutting off a number of families, it's not true that we cut anyone off. We have limited the upper limit for the cumulation of social benefits when the state is at a minimum wage because you will admit, it is not correct that a textile worker who works in the textile industry, who receives 2400, so much less than 2900 as we went because it is a gross minimum wage, of which often feeds and husbands who do not work and two or three children. So you can't live better than you've been living since your work. On the other hand, families with more children can accumulate benefits with state and local self-government. Most local self-government units have social programs, actually all have, some less generous, some more generous, but in any case families with more children have the right to cumulate fees and I think that this is one just system that we've introduced. Because once again I'm going to say, you can't and can't live better than social aid than work, and that's what's happened to us in some cases. I'm going to say one more time, a textile worker in the textile industry gets 2400 and still keeps her husband and a couple of kids living off those 2400s.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96909	Ante Babic, comment on the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96910	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, of course I'm not happy with your answer. My question was clear, and you were speaking in general about pre-determined settlements, you mentioned twice that it was not correct that a textile worker had so much pay, but you forgot to actually say so socially sensitive how much they cost and how much your ministers use the cards. However, the Republic of Croatia has been in the European Union for a year and a half and citizens' expectations have been high, which is also legitimate, but there has been growing poverty in the Republic of Croatia. We are side by side of less than one Bulgaria, Romania, Greece and Spain. Those expectations of the population that were about to happen were just tied to your ministry, to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. This Europe 2020 strategy, which you have not said a word about, in fact, is one idea of achieving smart and sustainable and inclusive growth in every society, and is related to reducing the number of poor to 20 million by 2020, achieving 75% of the employment rate and reducing the dropout from the regular education system to 10%. The social care system in the Republic of Croatia and this social assistance scheme are extremely rigid, one educational and insensitive to any exceptions especially for families with multiple children. These families can't pray. They're actually suffering your bad decisions and your ministry's decisions. What you don't want to talk about, which is facts, is what you did in the budget rebalancing for 2014 where you actually denied 174 million kuna to those families with more children, and you forgot to say that in your ministry you hired almost 30 employees who were supposed to work on European funds and projects. to take those funds from the European Social Fund, the European Regional Development Fund and the European Aid Fund [[Thank you very much.]] The most needed thing that hasn't happened today. [[Thank you. Time's up.]] Not a single kuna has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96911	Don't go too far. Thirty-six question from a colleague named Djuro Popio.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96912	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's a question I'm asking the Minister of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Infrastructure Mr. Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. So it is the problem of Croatian road transporters. Thus, early in the year, Croatian road transporters suffered a difficult business blow, since the Federal Republic of Germany had entered into force a regulation that almost eliminated Croatian carriers from European corridors, whether it was truck transport or bus operators. So about 7,000 legal and natural persons in Croatia who are engaged in this activity with over 45,000 vehicles in international transport of goods and passengers participate in the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia with about 4%. The inability to work with the Federal Republic of Germany where they participate in bilateral and transit transport and transport for third countries with 60% of the total international transport of carriers in the Republic of Croatia by strict application of this law have been disabled by practical business with most Western European countries and there is a real possibility of the collapse of many companies and the loss of thousands of jobs. The question is, did you know that this law was passed in the Federal Republic of Germany? It was adopted on April 2nd last year with application since the beginning of this year. Have you done anything according to your colleagues from the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany or through the European Commission, as others have done, so Slovenia and the auto transporters' associations themselves and whether you are doing something today to fix this position? Because if this really applies, the Croatian autocarers will still disappear from European roads, and of course I repeat the loss of thousands and thousands of jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96913	Answering the question, Minister Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96914	Thank you very much. So, of course we're doing business together with our colleagues from European countries who also have difficult conditions of lifting... gross salary at 8 and a half euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, first of all with colleagues from Poland, so Romania, I will say, Bulgaria has created an informal block that is trying to influence the European Commission, as well as the Federal Republic of Germany. So, solve or somewhat mitigate that problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96915	Commentary Đuro The Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96916	Yeah, you say you're trying to ease him now, but he's been going on, so since 1.1. The question is, then, did you even know that this was happening, whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or diplomacy had warned you about it and why you hadn't responded before. Either you were too busy monetizing them to, to make sure everything about what was going on or not. Of course you'll see it in the next steps. So you didn't do what you were supposed to do. You're the Resort Minister. Of course, with other colleagues primarily labour minister, foreign affairs to protect and prevent this discriminatory law. So, the fact today is that every truck that crosses the border of Germany, and drives goods or passengers on buses, is exposed naturally to controls and the fact is that it must respect the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany even though it is not in so-called. You know what it is in so-called. the cabotage regime. So it's a direct blow. And I repeat thousands of jobs because of your unresponsiveness, because of the government's insensitivity to the economic problems of Croatian entrepreneurs today we are here in general where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96917	And last question, colleague Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96918	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will refer the question to the Minister of Health, Mr. Varga. Mr. Minister, what are you going to do to address the difficult and complex situation at the Clinical Hospital Centre of Osijek? I know you'll answer that he's preparing a shift to the resuscitator, the third in your government's term and will be appointed a new resuscitator. The situation in KBC Osijek is not difficult just because of financial resources. KBC Osijek makes a monthly minus of about 7 million kuna. In KBC Osijek, nepotism reigns, the placement of department heads is carried out by party, family and friendly ties, leaders of individual clinical departments do not have scientific titles, but are placed on them by party personnel. At the clinic hospital of Osijek, 7,8 people came into the administration of nonmedical professions that actually burdened the hospital budget annually for about 2 million kunas. Because of this situation, there is certainly an outflow of expert staff in whose education the state has invested not small funds. According to all criteria KBC Osijek is the worst-ranked clinical hospital in the Republic of Croatia and among the last hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. So, the situation isn't great at all, though, what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96919	Secretary Sinisha Varga responds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96920	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs thank you for asking and thanking you for being first and foremost in the field of health because when the issue has been asked for internal policy, there can really be a lot of things. If I'd known it was a specific question about KBC Osijek, I'd have come with... data, but most of you read it yourself. It's partly true, it's partly a flat-rate. In fact, the internal elections for the boss's seats are primarily managed by the fact that legal procedures are respected in the matter of selecting the most favourable and most qualified candidate, not by any politicality chosen somewhere. I would like to believe that it is respected in absolutely all hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, as well as in KBC Osijek. We know that from the release of the Republic of '90s to the present, there have been many examples that it is not so and my one great mission and the desire is for politics to be thrown out of the health system to what extent it can go. While we are in the sphere of politics, the policy is that the central state finance the losses incurred in the health system and then the central state as a political body has an impact on regional events, and KBC Osijek as well as other KBCs are state-level hospitals. Therefore, it is the ministerial authority and the full authority to manage their 11 hospitals as it considers necessary. We are now waiting in 2015 with the exit from the Treasury, with a new model of bargaining and with a firm promise that the health care system in the central state is no longer looking for a cure for any resulting losses. With the new business and new contract offered to KBC Osijek, where specificities, regional specificities of the hospital, climate and swimming pool are taken into account, where patients are being treated there and we want to treat as many Slavonians as possible in Slavonia, to reduce the pressure on Zagreb and that anything can happen as close as possible to the homes of our insurance companies, our patients. So, I expect today at 13.45 I have a meeting with the European Commission where I repeat and what I am saying here, the health care system will consolidate itself until the end in accordance with the new funding model and the independent management of the health fund by 31.12.2017. So, the extra inflow now receiving hospitals through a new model of bargaining is primarily intended not to expand and the number of employees is not intended to increase wages, only primarily to increase health care adequateness for the quality health care of our citizens and to reduce the resulting losses in the past. First of all, I'm talking about the debts that were made in 2014. This is why, through close cooperation, the recovery of institutions from 2012 to this day, the losses were primarily inherited from 2011. It was a non-consolidated debt of 7.4 billion kuna and consolidated from 5.6. It was renovated by the end of 2014 and now we are moving into a new era where the health care system takes care of itself. I am making a firm promise that especially as regards Split where historical Split was absolutely sub-suppressed and sub-financed by the central state, there is the second in a row Osijek and we believe that with the new model of bargaining as planned for 2015 that we will have a sustainable health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96921	Commentary, Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96922	Mr. Minister of your response, however, I cannot conclude that anything in Osijek at a clinical hospital will change. I said that in Osijek, the biggest problem is not just finance. There is a situation about the same as in all other clinical centres in the Republic of Croatia, in Osijek there is a greater problem in hospital management especially personnel policy at the hospital. The solution certainly is not that his assistant comes instead of the existing Sanacia administrator, and the current resuscitator becomes his assistant. So without one thorough personnel first of all reconstruction at the Clinical Hospital Osijek shift certainly won't be. And that's the key to the problem, and there's the place and the role of politics or the Ministry of Health to solve these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96923	Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure that the Government and the Ministry have not delivered an answer within the prescribed time limit to 57 parliamentary questions and, in accordance with the said business provision, ask for answers to be delivered within 8 days. My colleagues and colleagues are currently finished in the morning. Please one more minute, let's just talk about this week's work. Today, we would like to discuss the first four points relating to courts, the State's Attorney's Office, the Law on Inheritance and the bankruptcy law. Tomorrow we'd start with a law supplementing the Consumer Credit Act. We'd be doing more points 6 and 7 and on Friday 8 and most likely at 12:00 we'd vote. Thank you very much. I'm setting a break until 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96924	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. We continue with: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 758. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. With us is Deputy Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt, Deputy Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96925	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The government of the Republic of Croatia shall take a number of activities and measures within the framework of the reorganisation of the network of courts and state lawyers. Fewer part of these activities are proposals for legislative amendments, and part is already discussed and accepted in the Assembly, primarily the Law on Areas and Seats and Courts and the Law on Areas and Seats of State Lawyers adopted at the vote of 24 June last year and in the main of their provisions enter into force on 1 April of this year. These amendments and additions to the Law on Courts are proposed to comply with the Law on Courts and with the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts and with the reorganisation of the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia and with the objectives and purpose of the reorganisation itself. The proposed provisions are also in line with the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on State Attorney's Office. Since the reorganisation will result in a reduction of the number of municipal courts from 67 to 24 municipal courts, or a reduction of the number of infringement courts from 61 to 22 criminal courts, which will result in the rounding of these judicial authorities and resulting in an increase in the number of their permanent services, as part of the former municipal courts will continue to act as permanent service of one of the remaining 24 municipal courts, a clearer definition of the concept of permanent service is proposed in terms of the definition, establishment and termination of the permanent service. And the notion of a permanent service manager is introduced as a mechanism to assist the President of the Court in performing judicial affairs in dislocated permanent services. In order to facilitate and facilitate delegations of the case as one of the modes of unifying the workload of courts, it is proposed to delegate the powers to decide on a delegation from the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Joint High Court of Justice in relation to the courts from which the cases are delegated. In order to increase efficiency in the affairs of the judicial administration, it is proposed that the presidents of all courts, with the exception of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, be obliged, of course, to draw up an annual work programme of the Court of Justice, and to submit reports on the tasks carried out by the judicial administration for the previous year, which will allow continuous monitoring of the work and results of the courts and of the Presidents of the Courts. In a procedure in which the minister of justice gives the authority to conduct the court's affairs to a judge in a court in which the President of the Court has ceased to act on his duty, so it is the institute so-called. Acting President of the Court, it is proposed to introduce a preliminary opinion of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the act and that person. For the purposes of unifying the case-law of the county courts, which, in the reorganisation of the judicial system, amended the local jurisdiction of the new Law on Areas and Courts of Justice, is also proposed to introduce mandatory meetings of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia with the presidents of the judicial departments of all county courts, at least twice a year, the conclusions to be published on the website of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia. For the purposes of unifying case-law, it is also proposed to establish the Centre of Judicial Practice as a special establishment unit of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia with the task of monitoring, analysing and publishing the case-law of all our courts and courts that decide at the level of the Council of Europe and the EU, which would also operate through the district centres in the 6 largest county courts. The Institute of submission of the annual report of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament we proposed a time limit for its submission in such a way that the deadline for the submission of this report was set in April 30th of that year. In order to improve the effectiveness and transparency of the procedure for the adoption of framework criteria for the work of judges, the existing power of the Minister of Justice is proposed to warn the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of the need to adopt or amend and supplement the framework criteria for the work of judges by amending the regulations or implementing other measures under the power of the Ministry of Justice, to supplement and to authorise the Minister to adopt the framework criteria independently in the event that the General Session of the Supreme Court has not delivered its proposal within 2 months of the warning. The publication of framework criteria on the website of the Ministry of Justice is also proposed. Furthermore, further consideration of the existing provisions of this law relating to the work of the judicial inspection is also proposed, and in which, in the future, in a wider range of supervisory powers, the authorities of the Ministry of Justice will also be able to participate. The relevant provisions of the award of cases in the case of judges have been amended in view of the introduction of a single information system of work in courts, so that the manual award of the case is an exception, and the procedure itself remains prescribed by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The judges of the Republic of Croatia are given opportunities and they are interested in different forms of participation in the work of international institutions and organisations in the form of an exchange of elections or participation in the work of these institutions. For the purpose of regulating their status in this case, it is proposed to prescribe the possibility of sending judges to work in international institutions and organisations with the consent of the Minister of Justice and the President of the Supreme Court for the longest time of 4 years and for which time the judicial duty of our judges rests. Finally, we have proposed and in view of the need to process the establishment of a special medical capacity of judicial police officers, giving power to the Minister of Justice to adopt a special regulation in the process of determining the capacity to carry out the duties of judicial police officers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96926	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Representatives Slavko Linić, Branko Vuksic and Nedzad Hodzic, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96927	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished deputy minister with co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We know the size of the pond doesn't say anything about the quality of the fish. Thus neither the size of the courts reduced them, abolished them, added nothing about the quality of the trial in the Republic of Croatia or the achievement of justice. Shortly before, the deputy minister spoke, also mentioned the Supreme Court president. How are we going to achieve better court practice? How will we achieve that we do not have court proceedings twice as long or triple as usual European practice when the President of the Supreme Court failed to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament last year and he had to, he should? And that we as the Croatian Parliament simply shake hands. I also asked the President of the Parliament here at the Parliament session, which is why the President of the Supreme Court has not filed a report with the Croatian Parliament. It's a mockery. ... When did he take it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It was supposed to be co-workers, so we wouldn't throw it at each other last year. It is often mentioned here that judges should not even be discussed publicly. Judges get angry when they get critics at their expense and say it's a pressure on the judiciary. This is the kind of justice that gets all the pressure. What is the pressure, what is the burden on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been waiting for justice for 5, 10, 15, 20 and 40 years? There are such cases that the minister said was powerless to do anything. They wrote the media about it. It's nothing to do with this subject, but we're talking about the same thing. If in the case of Glavas who was scheduled to be settled in a year at the Constitutional Court for 4.5 years, he's been dealt with for almost five years. If the foreign exchange clause case is solved for 4 years and nothing is brought and pressures the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or puts a knife under the throat and we are calm and we say we have a legal state. We don't, it's not a legal state. They should be feet of justice. The Supreme Court should be a meter of justice measures for all other courts, county, municipal courts, misdemeanor courts. So are we doing that? No, I don't. In my humble opinion, the Croatian judiciary, the Croatian courts, are the cancer of the Croatian society and the Croatian state. And so long as we don't talk seriously about the content here, but every time we talk about how we packed it and what's inside we're not talking about, so long as we're nodding, so he sent the President of the Supreme Court a report, did we discuss it? If this is one of the worst problems in the Republic of Croatia, we are not discussing it. We pass laws that do not apply how they should be applied. Or we're passing bad laws, unfortunately, that are collapsing, and then it's said that it's actually the Constitutional Court that made chaos in the Croatian judiciary because, according to those who claim it, it's brought down the law for some political reasons. If we have too many judges, if we have too many courts, which is true, why do we have the longevity of court proceedings? Did we discuss this? We didn't talk about it, we didn't, we discussed it, we just mentioned that it did. We haven't established the facts why that is, which is why judges are protected by caste that can't even be debated. We are not talking about individual cases, we are talking about chaos in the Croatian judiciary, about double-long court proceedings than is common in European practice. It's in the minister's report. The minister himself said we have too many judges, too many courts. And now we're going to have the same number of judges. We just reorganized to save. The centre of judicial practice will also be established. At the centre of the case-law, one of the main words will again be led by the President of the Supreme Court, where he will appoint as Head of the Centre of Judicial Practice at lower levels who has not filed a report here. They will not blame tomorrow for the chaos in the judiciary but for us in the Croatian Parliament because we did not do our job and do our job, we are at peace with what we have. If we don't deal with the economic crisis every day, why do we deal with the crisis in Croatian courts? Well, it's a crisis, when something lasts longer than we do twice as long, the economic crisis takes so much longer to solve things. Ask the citizens how those citizens who have been lurking around courts for 10 years and after 10 years, they don't get rid of what they need to be dealt with within reasonable deadlines. So every day all those who come to the Parliament every day outside the entrance stands a few people who share helplessly trying to get to us, to our ears, telling us to discuss it because they can't achieve it, say the court is that last instance, they can't achieve justice, they can't come to justice. And we see it all, every day we see it. The largest number of complaints I receive as a representative in the Croatian Parliament refers to courts and we are satisfied with this practice. All this where the deputy, I won't repeat, is no problem in supporting this law because I believe it's more rational than it is so far and I don't mind that this law is passed. However, so long as we don't talk about the essential problems of the Croatian judiciary this is just our excuse, these are our excuses. We'll make frames but the content will remain the same. The Croatian Parliament has a duty to worry about this if the judiciary does not work. We're in charge of it, our job is that. The case-law, it says, is that the reorganizations of the courts we discussed when it was on the agenda, to level the case law. The case-law is uneven, and we still don't have the judge's experts. I don't know how many opportunities you've had to participate in court proceedings, be a non-observer and see what can happen in courts with judges who tell you don't give me that information, I can't remember that much, let's just say that's one sentence. I argue further, there is no democratic society and there will be no democratic state so long as it is the last instance where people can seek justice does not work, and the courts do not work. The law itself will be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96928	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Joseph Kregar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96929	... I can't take the burden of the thesis that we haven't discussed the court. [[Specially enabled.]] However, we have debated many times in this assembly and last year, including on the Supreme Court's report, or President of the Supreme Court. In many ways it was a critical debate with a lot of harsh words and a lot of feelings, but here in a whole series of laws it is a very rational improvement in the efficiency of the judiciary. In order for this to be seen, data should not be used without reference to the figures the Supreme Court President pointed to. Therefore, the burden on unresolved cases is reduced, many measures have been taken, the selection and progress system of judges is being developed. We were not quite satisfied with that, but we cannot help but notice progress. And I especially mean dangerously, I find it a dangerous thesis that forgets that we are not superior to the judiciary and that we will never change it. The judiciary is one of three branches of power. The stronger the independence of the judiciary, the safer the citizens, the safer we are, that democracy has a better chance. Therefore, the whole problem should not be simplified to the fact that the Parliament, therefore, is a policy of attack and criticism of judges and they are defending themselves. It is not that simple and should stick to the facts, technical problems, real, political problems that exist in the conflicts on the judiciary and in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96930	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Vuksic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96931	Dear colleague Kregar, I was talking about it, we were discussing the state of the nation or when the Prime Minister filed a report on the government's work, that's when we talked about the government's work. We will talk about the situation when the President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Hrvatin, will come here for a pay phone and when we will be able to discuss it. I think colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt or someone on that side suggested that it would be much smarter in that set of laws to discuss after the President of the Supreme Court submitted a report. We will adopt all the laws and then the President of the Supreme Court will come and the judges will say mostly that we do bad things, that they are bad laws. That's not what we discussed. We didn't discuss justice and the judiciary, so two different things, similar, segmentary. I don't know why you couldn't comment on judges and judiciary as an independent government when you have countless, just click on that box you have in front of you, click on how many judges speak the worst words about the Croatian Parliament, politicians, politics and so on. It's a question of style. We were just talking about home education. But I don't see why she'd be critical of some other government's dangerous politicians. For what? Well, there's executive power, which is why we're criticizing executive power. Secondly, when one of the authorities doesn't work, everything needs to be done to make it work. What if we renegotiate the judiciary, we'll say no, they're independent, they can do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96932	Thank you. Next replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96933	Well, a colleague of yours would agree with you in this part, actually a good part of it, especially when you say that the government at the end and in general is also responsible for the functioning of the judicial authority and that's what I'm going to say, unfortunately, exactly. However, the answer and the answer to the fact that judges are caste and that we also have to talk about concrete items, you didn't exactly say that about specific subjects, but everything alluds to it, and we need to talk about it. If that were the case, it would be a simple thing. However, we are not authorized to discuss the improvement of justice in this way. Fate's power, to whom does the fate rule suit? Judges themselves have sought this in all democratic countries, so there are problems precisely because they are now not dependent on politics, but are internally dependent on each other and it also becomes a major problem for the judiciary and much more developed countries. However, I would also like to agree with you and with those who have pollemized you that there are, unfortunately, judges who do not really like their profession either in the afternoon or in their spare time or always find the time to deal with politics. Such judges don't like their own quality, whether they're quality or not, they don't like their profession. And to be a good judge, you must love your profession. But you'll also agree that we have a politician who would judge what's wrong with it. So, what do we do? It's hard work. You need to know that in 2000, we found the judiciary terrified, 50% of the staff being chased or gone and therefore, tortured. All governments have changed, in each period an adequate step has been taken, sometimes more, sometimes less. The truth is, citizens aren't happy with the judiciary, but we're not going to make out if we do that here, but they're going to see what we're doing for that judiciary. Because citizens, as far as they are rightly and rightly, are even more critical of politicians when they want to influence the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96934	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96935	Dear colleagues, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, imagine what will happen to this sentence that I said in three hours when she convinces herself. They'll say I said, of course it's a joke to hang judges. You said I said we should discuss specific subjects. I said don't discuss concrete, no, no. So someone's going to say, Vuksic said we have to argue, we judge. No, we don't need, we can't and that... of that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're saying we're courting here? Who are we courting? The people who have been waiting for justice for 20 years. What kind of justice has been waiting 20 years? You say we should be patient. How long are these people gonna be patient? It's not about us, it's about who we represent. Every day I've told you in the front door people with paper, beams like this are waiting for you. They walk them from county to municipal, from top to county, from county again to municipal and so on for 20 years and so on. How, why don't we discuss it? That there are politicians who would participate, we know that well. There are dictatorships, there are autocrats, there are politicians who have appointed judges. And that's what you've been talking about, and I agree. There are those judges set up by politics, so they think they have the right to be politicians. One such loud judge who was appointed by a man who was in prison, and he sentenced him to that prison, we know who gives lessons daily, who is actually more politician than judge, so I don't believe in his judgments either.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96936	Thank you. Davorin's Mlakar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96937	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vuksic, you encouraged me to this replica because I cannot agree with your grades that always go very generally on the state of the entire judiciary and they are neither based on any firm argument that you have written, nor on any analysis you have carried out. You have also spoken of your own personal experiences in some judicial cases, and on this basis you have assessed the work of the entire judicial system and therefore cannot agree with you. In particular, I would say that the vast majority of judges who work very thoroughly and do quality work, and in each profession you will find those less good, bad, or if you want none and it is not exclusive in the judicial system, it is everywhere. However, on this thorough assessment that the whole system is wrong I think it is incorrect to the judiciary especially when you talk about it and in some I would say almost daily cases as it happened, so you say the Constitutional Court created chaos in the judiciary because it suspended the law, the law we passed. So, if someone is responsible for the quality of work, then it's us who passed the law that the Constitutional Court has assessed is so bad that it can't declare certain provisions of the law anti-constitutional or problematic, but has suspended the whole law. This has not produced any chaos in society, because it remains in force what was before the law and it is the simplest said and we mix regular courts with the fourth authority in the state, which is the Constitutional Court. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96938	Thank you, colleague Mlakar. Time's up. Comrade Vuksic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96939	I just said I know the fourth power. I said they should be feet of justice. I'm not illiterate enough to put that in the same basket. Secondly, you're saying that I claimed that the Constitutional Court created chaos. It's not true again, you pulled a line I didn't say. I said it's a hard part and that's part of the government that's tanning over that issue that's the Constitutional Court, I didn't say it was the Constitutional Court, I'm saying it's been caused by chaos. Other judges say he didn't cause chaos. So we have one chaos at least in the state if not in the judiciary itself. Secondly, I think it's incorrect that you were saying that I based on personal experiences. I've only had in my life one trial that lasted 10 years of truth, but at all personal experience, and it doesn't matter. But I'm telling you, you heard, now I repeat four times, about people waiting here in the square, people writing to us. I speak based on their experiences. And as for the statistics on the basis of which I've concluded, your statistics, when we've passed the past laws, have brought in the government itself, statistics on how long the trials are going on, as far as we're saying, to the number of people for the judiciary per capita, how many judges we have, how many more judges we have than the others. Therefore, statistics exist. And yet we have countless pending cases. And it's known how many unsolveds we have instead of having as clean as it is in Chakovec garter clean. When you get there, you don't wait for anything, all of you are waiting, and I won't mix pears and apples either. But I'm saying, court cases shouldn't be so many pending court cases. I claim that the system of justice and justice is not working.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96940	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96941	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected deputy minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, I will immediately say that the SDP club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts in which the proposal sees another step forward in order to come precisely to what is still too difficult for citizens to get a justice sooner, that is, to make justice faster, to be a judiciary fully independent, not only from the policy of the current but also from the defeated policies, but also to resolve interdependences which simply has a less impact on such a type of influence, comes to an increasing degree of expression and increasingly stands out. I think we'll have to answer that question too. So, first of all, I'm just saying that the judges are you, that's what we've chosen to track down all modern solutions so that the fate power is an independent government. Which means that the judges themselves decide who they will take to their ranks, whom they will punish hard, whom they will promote. We also see what we read from the media and what comes from the judiciary itself that it is not always a quality because judges, and the Croatian judiciary really has very high-quality judges, that is what many have told us, but the Croatian citizen wants every judge to be like that. Because what luck he has is that maybe 90% of the world's great and wonderful, wonderful, who could be tried in any international court if he likes a judge who's not exactly like that. And then what's the opposite of Article 6. European Conventions on Human Rights that every citizen has the right to an honest and independent judge. So we see in general that this bill is exactly a step forward, a step forward and that this reform of the judiciary that has been going on for years and that we are a little tired of that name, but that this reform of the network of courts and structures is actually coming at the very end of the reform itself, when it has proved that judges are not all in the same position. Yes, some of the judges in the smaller environments here we have seen and here is an outstanding example where there are no delays, there are no waitings, they solve everything within an appropriate time frame, very, very quickly. Both in the municipal and direct court. However, in some other areas that also have municipal areas, county courts have been waiting for years. And that's something that burdens the judiciary as a whole and requires an answer from us. So, the judge when he finds himself alone in a unfair situation because he is burdened with a bunch of problems unlike his fellow judge in the neighbouring county who has a much more comfortable situation. Therefore, this reform has been implemented and all those measures that have been taken have now been seen and that is why the ministry and the government are reacting to the same allocation of judges themselves. And that's why it came, or is proposed to finally reduce the number of county courts and finally not slave to that county structure as much as we have the county to have county courts. Which is definitely one step forward. So now we'll have 15 county courts, 24 municipal courts, 22 criminal courts, 8 commercial courts and 4 administrative courts. I'm just here right now, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, I believe there may still be time in this assembly, and I think it's such a mood in the ministry itself, to take another step forward and to bring together criminal and municipal courts. There will be up to one already effective and better organisation. After all, what happened and why is this done? It's not just because we have and because it's constantly one objection you have the largest number of courts, you have the largest number of judges which is certainly a financial burden, but we have the largest number of maybe cases or a large number of cases per capita. So how do we find in all of this one solution that will not only be a burden on the state financially but first and foremost to watch how these items, those who arrive, are resolved within a reasonable time, and in particular how do we get rid of the lags? In terms of backlogs, it's done a lot, a lot. Of course, there are still cases for which there is no justification or justification for standing for so long. But what is most important is why we at the SDP club see this measure, that is, all of what is proposed by this bill, in strengthening legal certainty, legal certainty for citizens. Did you have a situation, therefore, in smaller areas where there are not so many cases where you can neither gain any great court experience nor court practice and you have no opportunity because it is not the subject of such a great dispute, such a great value that it can go to the Supreme Court, to review here in that micro environment the case ends by law. In neighbouring counties, almost the same fact that you have a diametrical opposite practice and then people, we are a small country, people are thinking, so what kind of legal certainty is this because if we have legal certainty if a citizen who talks to the court no matter how much a thing happens when a court is always uncertain, if it is based on evidence that he has and especially with the professional help of his legal adviser, the lawyer cannot know that he will succeed in this dispute, but that everything is always uncertain, then we stand badly, then his colleague Vuksic would be right. But fortunately not, there are such cases and that in an inadmissible number of cases, the fact and the way we've had the structure so far. So this structure isn't just about saving some of the president's salaries, least of all, but to come first and foremost more evenly to burden the judges themselves, which is certainly just, we need to be fair to the people we've given power to share further justice, and on the other hand, just to develop a good case law. That will certainly enable this device. And what has already been mentioned in particular in the opening letter given by the deputy lady where such a court practice centre will be organised. In any case, it will contribute to something and it is true and no one can deny it, that we are addressed by people regardless of our profession most people because of how the court has resolved them, and also by the Committee on Legislatives. In the Legislative Committee, the largest number of cases is that citizens are seeking precisely because they were a judicial body, a judicial body whether a court or some administrative body misapplyed the law or at least at their discretion and requested our credible interpretation. Of course, the board can't get into that when the norm is clear, but when there's been a misapplication of the law. And that is why not every court can make a mistake and there are other courts, and therefore there is exactly one unification and monitoring of court practice, because in our legal history something little further not so close and when we changed loose laws, there was no time to develop court practice, there was no time for judges in Dubrovnik to think about the court in Zagreb, which is how it is managed and almost in similar cases there was no fear that the judges would not do so. And therefore, by supporting this bill, I also mention that we will do everything possible to make judges independent of politics, but we will also make sure that their independence does not mean independence in any way. The laws are made by the Croatian Parliament, and we have seen that many branches of government have such achievements in the Croatian Parliament and basic... The Croatian Parliament, in order for them to be legislators, must not allow this because it is not for them to reach into our rights but rather for the destruction of the legal security of citizens. The law has to be followed by every one, especially the judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96942	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Joseph Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96943	Ms. Antičević-Marinović is right about one thing, in many, but here I will stress only one and that the debate on the judiciary is very serious and must be measured because the problem is great. It is psychological because it touches the everyday life of many people, people feel dissatisfied, dissatisfied, and feel that they live in an unjust state. But that exact assessment must be based on a balance between everything we're talking about. This is where a rather dangerous thesis began to break through, that the Parliament would ignore this problem in society. No, I don't. The Justice Committee held 62 sessions in our mandate, none less than 4 points. We had special sessions on some issues. There's just something that's lagging behind in this debate, which is a professional approach, a fact-based argument, an experience, is just about feelings and mass psychology. With full responsibility, I can say that we were not divided by party lines but linked by professional interest, and here I will highlight two things. Not only must we not only allow specific cases to be entered, but in the Law on Courts, we have also obliged the President to report to us for the purpose of having a partner and a reasonable interlocutor, not only to fall apart, but to have their own effects. There will be a lot to talk about today, but I will only stick to the appeal that, through a balanced approach, we are not causing the reverse effect of polarisation and party treatment of something that is a question of perfection. This isn't about justice. It's about one law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96944	Thank you. Answer from my colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96945	My colleague, this is everything you've said, and you've said it more than once, and that's exactly what I think is the basis on which all our discussions must rest when it comes to justice as an independent branch of government, and that is one balanced approach. Which means that we have every negativity and duty to point out but not to generalize or transfer responsibility to the judiciary because the fact we would have, we enjoyed it, the judges would say, they bring us non-quality laws, we say that they judge, of which it was no use. But what you, Professor Kregar, are stressing especially now and as president of the key committee here, the Justice Committee, is that there are debates of all members regardless... Perfectly mature and profoundly different from the kind of debate we may have had on the same board 10, 15 or more years ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which means that we are looking at an idea, so that we are interested in the independence of the judiciary and that our role here is to bring as high-quality laws as possible, so that we give judges as high-quality tools as possible so that they can now fulfil their Constitution and legal tasks, not the task that has been set up for themselves, but precisely for citizens who are addressing the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96946	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96947	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore one of the laws that we are actually rounding as the Government writes in its description a judicial reform that will finalise that Croatia will have 15 county courts, 24 municipal, 22 criminal, 8 commercial and 4 administrative courts. And this law, it says, was needed to bring about a concentration of quality, faster and easier delegation of cases, faster movement of cases, equalisation of the work of the burden of judges or courts and to bring about a level playing field. It's something we've been calling for years. The Centre of Judicial Practice will be formed to analyse and publish the trial of both those Croatian courts and courts within the Council of Europe of the European Union. It's about a quote from the desired goals of this law. The Centre of Judicial Practice at the Supreme Court will have district centres in the county courts Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin, Velika Gorica and Zagreb. Who wouldn't support this? Who wouldn't support that, but, uh, if you were right, but it says you don't need any extra money to enforce this law. I will believe this claim if today, Madam Deputy Minister, I am given the information of the state of the e-records. The e-script works in all courts, at all levels in 100% form. What is the state of the information equipment in the courts, where there will be permanent services to understand, what is the state of the network and the connection of the courts and how simulated the costs of the travel of judges and courts... Namely, these are items that are inevitably looking for money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These objectives, quoted by the law's wishes, can be achieved if the measures prescribed are to be implemented. If money is not provided, the goals remain noble, good and necessary for Croatia, but I am afraid I am not feasible. I remind you when we discussed the State's Attorney's Office's work report that we were warned not only that they no longer have the money to pay the experts for the art rally but that they don't have enough... I read recently and the media in Croatia only wrote the truth and objectively that the problem of paying witches is also present in courts, about 60 million were at stake. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What, it's all paid, it's all paid up in June, so everybody's very happy just getting less and less skilled because it's been paid after 2, 3 years of claims, of course by intervention of another minister from some likely budget reserves or redistribution of funds. It's not a system. The system is when money is provided for these needs at the point of the Ministry of Justice and Justice. It's a system. However, will these measures and wishes lead to a far less judgment in Croatia of second-degree courts that we are returning to a retrial of the Court of First Instance? Will we have a significant reduction in the length of court proceedings in the Republic of Croatia? How much did we pay to the citizens on the basis of the European Court's ruling for a long-term trial? Comrade Antičević, you know all the data in your mind, how many million have been paid? And that's all paid? A lot, a lot. Lately, I hear something from the justice system that scares me that more and more judgments, whose reasonings deliberately set landmines so that judgments may fall or be subject to audits, especially in property disputes, are of greater value. People, if that's true, then we're in far greater trouble than reducing the number of courts. And when I mentioned the right, the justice and the long-term trial, I'm going to have to give you a concrete example, and I'm not going to generalize, I'm not going to go into the measure of things, but I'm going to have to give you an illustration of the long-term length of court proceedings, injustice and indifference of the state when someone stays on the side of protection. I have the consent of a man to mention his name and name. His name is Zoran Dove. The gentleman is from Zagreb. In 1991, he started a work dispute, so I'm talking about courts in the City of Zagreb, not some small court there that is not staffed, which is not something, in 1991 he started a working dispute against companies over illegal dismissal. In 1996, the court ruled that the case was withdrawn, the ruling that the complaint was withdrawn because the party did not appear at the hearing without the party being invited to the hearing or given a decision to suspend the proceedings. In 1997, the party accidentally learned about the court's decision in Zagreb and launched the retrial procedure. In 2000, we were already in 2000, the party found out that the case was in a commercial court because the defendant company, the company was in bankruptcy proceedings. In 2008, I repeat, 2008 the first hearing is scheduled. I skip chronology and come in January 2014, because of what happened to the citizen Zoran Golub sues the Republic of Croatia for compensation for the damage he suffered due to the long-term trial. In January 2014, the first-degree ruling rejected the claim, the second-degree ruling was rejected and the case was submitted before the Supreme Court in June last year. And before the verdict, the man lost 15 years of employment because of the court's decision for 11 years he had no right to social assistance because he was formally employed, he has 1400 kunas of pension, which in the blockade, blocked, carried out by the Republic of Croatia for 23750 kuna that he had to pay by the verdict. 23750 kunas have blocked his pension of 1400 kuna and completed because he could not pay. What did the court find, considering his suit against the Republic of Croatia? This is a quote from the municipal court ruling in Zagreb. This procedure found that the courts did not comply with their obligation to judge within a reasonable period of time. This stems from the very case file of the Commercial Court in Zagreb, which finds the findings and solution of the President of the Court, which found that the case was filed in 1995 before the Municipal Court in Zagreb, that the file was in the Commercial Court since 2000 and that no action was taken by the judge until 2000, and under point 4 of the findings, it was found that there was absolute unhappiness on the file and the solution was assigned the subject on schedule on 10 May 2007. Such findings by the President of the Court are in line with the state of the case file of the Commercial Court, both in Zagreb and in Zagreb. Following the above, the Court finds that the orderly judge did not comply with the obligation of the court within a reasonable period of time. It's going on. However, although only the duration of the proceedings before the Municipal and Commercial Court in Zagreb was too long in any case, it was a period of complete inactivity of these courts, this court considers that these failures cannot be brought into direct causative contact with the possible damage suffered by the prosecutor. The fact that the courts in Zagreb have not tried and ruled, and when a Croatian citizen has sued Croatia to compensate him for damages, the court has found that there are all documents in the file that prove the court's conduct, failure to act and judges, it is concluded that the citizen has no right to compensation from the Republic of Croatia because this cannot be causally linked. And now if you think this is the only object of a similar character, similar nature, you're wrong. If you think this is the only item in which, and today before this debate is independent of the announced topic, I was called by a man who is somewhere also about 17.5 or a slightly shorter year trying to prove and come to justice. He claims for new types of crime in the City of Zagreb with land in which phantom companies are registered as land owners where some social housing is built, are entered in a suspicious manner in grant books and then the city of Zagreb offers these companies a replacement of land in other locations. There are cases, documents in front of Croatian courts and at the Supreme Court. I think it's been eight years when nobody decides anything. So long as we have cases and cases like this or we have the right to have parliamentary deputies talk about good Croatian justice and do we have the right to support this bill which is ideally good idea, there is an idea behind it and not ask the question of Madam Deputy Minister whether your ministry is looking for a rebalancing of the state budget and providing money for its implementation. Because if you don't have the money, you won't be able to implement these measures and we won't reach the goal that's declared in it. And when we put out criticisms on the account of the judiciary and on such concrete examples as I do, there is only one function, that those who decide after the Parliament know what they have to do. And now I question whether a copy of this file of documents supporting my allegations to give the deputy minister because inside you are all the names of the judges who participated in these unholy acts. Some of them are still in the justice system today. Some of them publicly salt their minds with parliamentary deputies and criticise the Parliament. Or attach it to the record from this session of the Parliament, so when there are reactions to the public, when the judges start attacking me that at least the Parliament has documents on it. Because if after what I've presented everything remains only on my speech, and this man will still be in a blocked jury account until the state pays nearly 24000 kuna because the courts haven't done their job then we haven't done much, then we haven't done much. And such Bells of Doves are in Croatia colleagues and colleagues too.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96948	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96949	Dear Mr. Lesar, I have already said several times here we are talking about judicial reform, the reorganisation of the network of courts as one of the essential elements of judicial reform, and we have not done an analysis of the effects of the current reorganisation of the justice network. In previous years, we have significantly reduced and reduced the network of courts, and we have never received the results of the effect of that reorganization of the network of courts whether it is effective, whether it is not, whether it should be moved on or should be stopped. You mentioned an e-record. The e-script has not yet been brought to life in all courts, so the question is, how will you send an object to, from Zagreb for example, Dubrovnik if it turns out that way, if the drum says so, the wheel of happiness yes. What happens to that file if it gets lost, if you copy what thousands of pages it's going to need to copy, how much it's a waste of energy, work, work. I speak from practice, I don't speak by heart, I speak specific examples. The spacious possibilities, for example, of the County Court in Velika Gorica, are catastrophic. It is a shame that such a court works in the first place, and now you give it even more work because you give it jurisdiction and cases from the Municipal Court in New Zagreb. That court seems to you to be on the first floor of the court, on the second floor is the forest, so on the third floor is the court again, so on the fourth floor is the forest again. Shame! The question arises from this reorganisation of the network of courts, and afterwards this Law on Courts relating to that reorganisation of the network is the question of how much effect it has in reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96950	Thank you. My colleague Lesar's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96951	My fellow Scare-Ozbolt, that's what I'm afraid of. In our best wish, we are constantly implementing a legislative reform of the judiciary without the necessary money. You mentioned spatial conditions as a problem and an e-screte. But I'm afraid we're also implementing justice reform without people or with existing people who have failed in the system not once but 10 times. The Parliament can't do anything, the executive power can't do anything. In that lustration, the incompetent, and those who can't do anything because they say politics can't get involved. And that's why I can't wait, and I hope to welcome the President of the Supreme Court in this room. He might be able to do something. It might be a good idea to welcome, say, the President of the State Judiciary Council in this Chamber, so that we can discuss such concrete examples. Because the victims of a bad, corrupt judiciary, the ones that don't work are people, are citizens of this country and can easily happen to us by continuing this trend in this mass number that we'll have another category besides those blocked, so those victims of francs. I think the largest association in Croatia would actually be the Association of Citizens of Victims of the Croatian Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96952	Thank you. Joseph Kregar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96953	There's one thing I'd like to point out. Here it is said in your presentation of fellow Lesar many of what I can support, in general, but some things are presented in a way that gives the wrong picture. We referred to the Government a request for greater resources and when it came to the debate on the Justice Reform Strategy, when it came to the debate on the State's Attorney's Report and the debate on the occasion of the Supreme Court's Report. This says that not only was there a desire in the House to find means to serve reform but in these discussions, and it was said what had been done so far and it was acknowledged that not everything had been done. I would, of course, take a position there, so far I've stood for some balance, some scale in the score. Criticism is necessary, criticism is good. I don't consider it good to draw conclusions from an individual case, I don't consider it good. You have shown in your case that the courts have debated not once but on many occasions and that by controlling lower courts. It's very difficult for me to take any kind of attitude right now. Either they're as bad as you say, or I didn't get a good dent in the whole case, so I could be biased. The main task of the judiciary is not to be biased. And just one more detail, this all reminds us of that situation that the ambulance comes across after a major car accident, and when a dozen people are hurt, they need to triage and help with those things that have long-term effects. We're expecting one pill here, and it's a lot of different cases and different measures. This is only one, and here I support you, only one part in a package of laws that won't give an immediate effect but will.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96954	Thank you, Mr. Craiger, for your time. Answer me, Comrade Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96955	My dear colleague Kregar, you said that my debate could show the wrong picture. Well, look, I don't think the judiciary is an impressionism that we can all interpret what we see in the picture that the artist drew. Maybe I brought the wrong picture, maybe I got the wrong color, I don't know. But I showed the right picture because I proved it. Secondly, you said the courts decided twice in seven years nothing, in these 17.5 years of this case. Is that the wrong picture?- I'm sorry. It's a catastrophic picture! Pity, which also shames the judiciary in which in one case for seven years no debate is scheduled. And finally, we asked for more money for the judiciary in Parliament. When? Have you voted in favour of the state budget? Is it? Is there more money in that state budget for the judiciary? It's not! All those who advocated more money for the judiciary in the state budget and you supported the budget without that more money didn't ask for more money for the judiciary than you suggested, they told you it couldn't and then you told them but well then nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96956	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Davor Milicevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96957	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Today's draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts finds the applicant in need to comply with the adopted Law on the areas of courts and courts. Since the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts was adopted at the 15th session of the Croatian Parliament and the application of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts no longer needs to be repeated because the law has already entered into force but with a delay of application. However, at the very beginning it was visible that its implementation would be very questionable given that certain... things had not been properly regulated. So it is understandable that the application of the law was delayed until 1 April 2015. But to return to today's bill of law. In fact, we do not have any objections to this bill because it really is the need to bring the Law on Courts in line with the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts, which is divided by 15 county courts, 24 municipal courts, 22 criminal courts, 8 commercial courts and 4 administrative courts. With the new reorganisation of the judicial network, a new institute in the judiciary has appeared in the draft law, the head of the permanent service which manages the court, assists the President of the Court in the conduct of cases of case law, administration, and also enables the timely conduct of affairs and increases the efficiency of the work of the court. Therefore, what we want to point out and what we believe to be a major problem is an amendment to Article 16. The Law on Courts and that paragraph 5 of the same article states that a decision on the establishment and termination of the work of permanent services and departments outside the seat of the court shall be taken by the Minister of Justice. The subjective provision of the law by us is highly doubtful because there is no question of what the criteria are based on which the Minister of Justice makes such a decision, although it is a very important matter. It follows from the legal provision in question that the Minister of Justice, according to his or her own opinion, may suspend any permanent service, i.e. without consulting anyone. Now the Municipal Court of the Republic of Croatia. And that's exactly what we were stressing that the problem with the adoption of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts is. In this way, the small doors are removed by the municipal courts, initially converting permanent services, and then the decision by the Minister of Justice opens up the possibility that permanent services can be abolished. We therefore propose that this item be reconsidered until the second reading, trying to find an adequate way so that, in the status of the Head of Permanent Service, it is decided through the judicial authorities or that the decision being taken is not exclusively in the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice, who would by discretion decide on the status of Head of the Service. Furthermore, Article 9 of the Law is amended by adding paragraph 5, 6 and 7 to the introduction of a new Centre for Judicial Practice which is to be welcomed. It has the task to monitor, analyse, publish court practice in the Republic of Croatia as well as the practice of courts in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the practice of courts that decide at the level of the Council of Europe and the EU. The work of the centre will be... the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia and through the district centres at the county courts in Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin, Velika Gorica and Zagreb, and as the head of the centre of jurisprudence will be appointed Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the provisions of the district centres of judicial practice shall be appointed by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia from the order of judges of the county courts in which the centre operates. The internal structure and manner of operation of the Centre of Judicial Practice are closer to the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the courts of the nomotechnical provisions of the law is made more precisely and determines their pronunciation. It is thus determined that the cases in the court are arranged for retirement every calendar year for the following year, then the bill determines that the cases in the courts are automatically granted to judges,... by random application of the corresponding algorithm, which we welcome and supported again. And in a court where it is not in the application of an automatic electronic allocation system, the cases shall be awarded by hand to judges in accordance with their receipts by the following alphabetical order of the Judges' last names. Therefore, the proposal for a law in the first reading of the HDZ club will in principle support it with a note and hope that the above remarks will be considered by the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96958	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96959	I think the colleague spoke very correctly and particularly apostrophe and also the importance of the centre of court practice with his district offices and giving specific suggestions. So here I am using this opportunity, but on this one trail maybe in the other direction, but the basis is the same, these county centers according to this proposal would be in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and now you see Varazdin, Velika Gorica and Zagreb. I think there's a high concentration and a closeness which doesn't match, say, covering the adequate mileage and the density of the other judicial bodies. You can see from Rijeka to Split you have nothing, instead of being one or in Zadar or Dubrovnik while you have one big concentration here. And the urgency is we're about to get to the best of court practice, so I think we should seriously consider what the centers would be. I'm not saying that maybe these should be abolished but why should these become very close to Zagreb, Velika Gorica and Varazdin have no reason not to start one in Vukovar and Zadar or Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96960	Thank you. There's no response to the replica. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of HNS representative Vesna Sabolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96961	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected deputy minister with associate, esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament. The club of representatives of the Croatian Liberal Democrats agrees with the opening arguments of the motions and conclusions of the Committee of Justice and will, of course, support this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts in the Republic of Croatia. As we have already heard the reason for proposing these amendments is to comply with the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts which, however, should remove any shortcomings or many shortcomings in the structure of the judicial network. That the judicial network in Croatia is too expensive, inadequate and ineffective, and that it does not provide adequate protection for citizens and economic operators is the fact that most in this Parliament have agreed with, and that is the assessment of the Croatian government as well as the reasons for this proposal. And this proposal is the result of this knowledge to build an efficient system. We discussed efficiency many times in this assembly, presented data on the dissatisfaction of citizens, on moral and material damage done to citizens because of the slowness in resolution, on unskilled and unequal judicial decisions, and sometimes very harmful and legally questionable decisions. There have also been cases of vague decisions subject to different interpretations. All of this has contributed and still contributes to a sense of deep injustice in our society. It is impossible to assess how irreparable damage it can do to citizens ineffective justice. It is also invaluable that inefficient justice is inflicted on the social community and society as a whole, primarily because it creates mistrust in the judiciary, the state and its institutions and society as a whole. Can such a judiciary be handled with cases of economic crime, turned crime, war crimes, political socially sensitive labour disputes, legalised interest? Can such a judiciary be dealt with by powerful legal and banking lobbys that most citizens think are using at the end of the war, using their knowledge, power and influence, and legislative powers, and on the other hand taking advantage of the naiveness, the lack of information of citizens that is common to transition societies? It is not rare to hear in public comments that so many legal, physical, legal and legal persons and damaged economic and social foundations of the Republic of Croatia have been robbed. Can you handle this kind of justice? He can't. Mr. Lesar mentioned landmines, and this is often spoken of in public by bringing them into contact with legal tariffs and their role in the functioning of the judiciary. And we therefore welcome the government's decision to reform the Croatian judiciary, to reorganise the judicial network, to enable a delegation of cases, to even the case-law and burden of judges, to enable more effective monitoring of the work and results of the work of the courts and the presidents of the courts, and thus to facilitate the identification of their responsibilities for the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration. We know that there are courts and judges who do not follow the complexity and responsibility of judicial and judicial duties and professional ethics and solid judicial wages are the only guarantee of the independence of judges. According to our assessment, without serious reform of the Croatian judiciary, there is no shift in economic and economic recovery, and there is in particular no recovery of Croatian society why they are responsible, i.e. why responsibility should take over all three branches of government without any incurring each other or in the third power. Consistent implementation of the government's trode is a condition without which a modern democratic state cannot function and therefore we welcome the government's proposals reforming the Croatian judicial system and support this proposal and supplementing the Law on Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96962	Thank you too, colleagues. This is what we're done with. Deputy Minister, it is not necessary if you do not want to Here you go, please. [[Intruder Artuković Kunšt: Only short.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96963	Thank you very much. Thank you for the discussion. I am pleased to see that the complexity of solving problems and the situation in the judiciary that we are very aware of precisely because of this consciousness are these measures, this is only part of the measures that are now proposed. And it is suggested, and it is done intensively. So it's not just a question of new laws, it's a question of new procedural provisions and process tools, concentration of discussion, ban on double removal and other procedural elements. Likewise, the new and spatial and organisational structure of the network of courts, of course monitoring court practice, because we are convinced that equating judicial practice leads to a reduction in the number of cases and a reduction in their duration. One of the very important tools on which we are working intensively and where we are very, very committed and here it is mentioned as an incomplete tool to introduce e-scripts or e-systems into the judiciary. So the e-script was introduced and it works in courts. The question of the means to introduce it is whether or not we have provided those funds. We have, of course, been implementing and introducing e-registration into our judicial system is part of a project to improve the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia that we have spent many years with the World Bank. The elements have been set up many years ago but we have just dedicated ourselves to this final practical realization part of the introduction of the e-list into the judicial system of courts. And also by following up, we have a system connected to the state's attorney's office. So we argue that, not that there will be an increase in the financial expenditure for the judiciary due to the adoption of this law and all the measures in question, but we will also achieve certain savings that will certainly be shown because of the organisational meaning and also because of this information. It has been said that, for example, the respected representative Lesar has shown the situation in the judiciary, and we respect that, but precisely because of the government's trinity and esteeming the principle of the government's trinity, we are not in a position to solve a specific matter here in a concrete way. On the contrary, we are convinced that these measures will lead to the fact that these cases affecting a period of time will not be repeated before. And that we are on the right track also shows the fact that the benefits for the long-term procedure that citizens are pursuing are based on Article 6. The European Conventions in 2003, when they amounted to €27 million, reduced to €8 million in 2014, thus having significantly less and more of the measures and activities taken before and now being taken, yield their results. It's a continuous process and a process of regulating the justice system, it's being implemented, this is already the second or third government, data is being analysed, and there are significant strategic platforms being done to bring the process to an end, it is truly continuous and certainly not a claim that we are doing this project without analyzing and collecting all the data on the state of things. As for the establishment of permanent services, they have, their establishment has been before and is now in the power of the Justice Minister, we have extended this jurisdiction and to the termination of the work of permanent services, we allow it to be questioned, but we want to stress that we are with the authority that the permanent service has laid down specific reasons why it and is founded then the argument a contrast and abolishes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96964	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96965	Let's keep voting on the points of the agenda. Proposal for a law on agriculture. It's not that. Excuse me. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 758. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. What's the score? I find it unanimous with 85 votes to accept and reach the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96966	We continue with: 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorney's Office, first reading, P.Z. No. 759; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law apply in the adoption of this Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. We have the Deputy Minister with us. Deputy lead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96967	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the Parliament. As we have previously said, as part of the process of reorganisation of the judicial system, we propose amendments to the Law on State Attorney's Office because, of course, the state's attorney's office is an important branch of justice. The main reason for proposing amendments to this Act is to comply with the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers, which will be implemented by the reorganisation of the State Law Network in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, in order to comply with the objectives of the reorganisation itself. Since the reorganisation of the state-owned network continues to reorganise the network of courts, these proposed provisions are in line with the previous amendments and additions to the Law on Courts that we have discussed. Since the reorganisation will result in a reduction in the number of municipal state attorneys, they are now 33 to 22 and there will be a rounding of these judicial authorities and an increase in their permanent services, a clearer definition of what a permanent service is, therefore, definition, establishment and termination is proposed, and the notion of a permanent service manager is introduced as a mechanism to assist a state attorney in the conduct of State Attorney's offices in dislocated permanent services. Further consideration of the existing provisions of this law relating to the work of the judicial inspection is proposed, in which, in the wider range of supervisory powers, the authorised officials of the Ministry of Justice will also be able to participate, the Institute for the submission of the annual report by the State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament, as well as the submission of the report by the President of the Supreme Court, in such a way that the deadline for the submission of this report is 30 April of the current year. In order to improve the effectiveness and transparency of the procedure for the adoption of framework criteria for the work of state attorneys, it is proposed that the existing power of the Minister of Justice be warned by the Attorney General of the need to adopt or amend the framework criteria for the work of state attorneys for the purpose of amending the regulations or enforcement of other measures under the powers of the Ministry of Justice, to supplement and to authorise the minister to adopt the framework criteria independently in the case where the main state attorney has not submitted his proposal within 2 months of the day of warning. The publication of framework criteria on the website of the Ministry of Justice is also proposed. The assignment of cases to the work of state attorneys and advisers will be performed by automatic electronic random assignment as well as by courts. It's made possible by CTS, so-called. The CTS or the State Attorneys Information System, with the possibility that the exception of manual assignments will be possible, but exclusively in order of receipt and in alphabetical order of the last name of officials or advisers in the State Attorney's Office. The procedure for the award of objects to work remains, of course, prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the State's Attorney's Office. As with judges, respecting the possibility and interest of state attorneys and judicial officials for the various forms of their participation in the work of international institutions and organisations, it is proposed to regulate their ability to work in foreign institutions or organisations, for a maximum period of 4 years for which the state's attorney's office rests, of course, with the agreement of the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General. Here's the short story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96968	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HNS representative Vesna Sabolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96969	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As with the previous proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Courts, the HNS Club supports this proposal. We believe that these amendments and additions will ensure a level playing field and the mobility of deputy state attorneys and state attorneys and better use of existing capacities in the state's attorney's office. We are also pleased with the fact that there is a more precise determination of jurisdiction besides the rest and the work of the Judicial Inspectorate, and it is also more precisely determined how to submit the annual report to the main state attorney to the Croatian Parliament. This makes it clear that establishing the rule of law and restoring the trust of all citizens in the Croatian judicial system is the priority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is a prerequisite for the recovery and economic sustainability of our society. Only then will we be able to attract domestic and foreign investors seriously. We believe that this reorganisation will allow the state's attorney's office to launch stronger activities in the fight against economic crime, corruption and problems within the judicial system. This reorganisation is a step towards the necessary reform and strengthening of the state's legal system, and here as well as in the previous justice system, we can say that the most powerful guarantee of efficiency is expertise, professional ethics and solid pay. Crimes continue to endanger economic, fiscal, social and other rights and interests of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and therefore it is necessary to improve the vigorous fight against crime by means of legal and other measures. As we can see, the Government of the Republic of Croatia continues to take the necessary measures to ensure the conditions of the State Attorney's Office with a view to ensuring the legality and efficiency of their procedures. We therefore support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96970	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party representative Club, Mr Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96971	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Reputed deputies with a co-worker. So who wouldn't support a proposal that says we're going towards something better, it's a reorganisation of a state administration, part of a state administration that will make it possible to work more efficiently. But it's all wonderful and wonderful and we'll support that part, but sometimes someone mentioned it if I'm not mistaken I don't think it's exactly Mr. Shucker who's here, that the usual practice of this government has become that copy-pass works this system where it stands to implement this law doesn't need to secure funds in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. And really, I remember the last time I saw some bill coming from this government that didn't stand in the text. And now that we see that all these changes are being introduced, that they're practically forming permanent services, that organisationally there's a lot of changes with 22 municipal, 11 municipal state attorneys. It's just amazing to me that it can all be put under the same denominator, no additional costs and problem solved. Whether this reorganisation will lead to some more quality, quality work of the State's Attorney's Office or the Office of State's Attorneys and their efficiency in terms of the work of individual cases is difficult. I honestly took with me a phonogram from the debate on the State's Attorney's Office report, where the report states that 380 employees do not have their computers at all, and about 800 of them are so out of date that they are practically not for use. Whether teaming them 4 or 5 will now use the same computer, so it will be more efficient. I don't know, I'm not sure. But I will remind you that the efficiency of the State's Attorney's Office in 20.3.2014 from this pay phone I opened one of the, mentioned one of the affairs and then I mentioned that there are people close to the SDP. The state's attorney's office didn't respond. If it had reacted then it would probably not have happened what happened later in that same case that one bridge of 50 tons disappeared overnight. Is this law going to help the efficiency of that system? I'm not sure. I ask the question of what is with the application that we have read about all together in the media that the administration of a state-owned company, which the minister had praised just a few months before, as the highest quality management in the history of the company, has submitted to the State's Attorney's Office against this minister. Interestingly, there's no reaction, we've never heard anything. Do we, like so many times so far, testify that when someone leaves, when they become a political dead man, then the efficiency of the system or in this particular case of the state judiciary will be demonstrated? We can welcome this team through another prism, so let's say Mr. Cvitan's attorney-general said he'd put an end to it, that it was his priority, that it would end up with local powers and that there was one of the biggest problems. We are aware of the fact that we are who we are, that we are all bloody under the skin and that through some continuity of relationships we simply get closer to people, become not to say and interestedly bound, and then sometimes that basic part of which is why there is such an institution in this case the State's Attorney is not doing its part of the job or reacting to its local colleagues. He's simply not doing anything, he's not saying anything, he's putting it in drawers to get an object at office value, and he's probably going to make a big, big contribution to change that. However, we also have those let's say international parts where the same state's attorney's office scheduled the Raiffeisen Savings Office case, where we haven't heard, that case is the same couple of years old. But we must not be surprised because today, the prime minister complained to us that, say, the Constitutional Court did not react unless I was mistaken for four years on the subject of the currency clause, or the Swiss franc. We will now see, however, as we read in the media today that Minister Hajdas Doncic is asking the Constitutional Court to react immediately, which is very interesting, because we have heard that the trio of authorities is respected. But Minister Hajdas Doncic today and through the media, I don't know if the media has precisely passed on the request of the Constitutional Court is immediately apparent in the matter of the monetization of highways, or possibly a referendum. Then we have cases that are also mentioned from this pay phone, which are INA, so maybe today I wouldn't have the opportunity to ask a question on the current morning and all the major applications that the INA workers sent to DORH and USKOK have no, at least visible or public-known results. What about RIZ? Here today we have had the opportunity to see again some new documents that come out of there and where the DUDI also participates with such wide arms sharing shares of Croatian state-owned companies in some strange, at least strange and incomprehensible circumstances but it is probably an object that, if ever it comes to order in the DORH or USKOK, will be for some others or perhaps even third governments. In any case, any change that goes towards a better quality organisation of the state administration or part of the state administration or any segment, thereby contributing to the efficiency of this system, will be welcomed on our part. However, what we have had the opportunity to see so far does not give us any hope of optimism. But we're going to support this proposal, although frankly, on every next proposal or all of these lately, I've been increasingly skeptical of how much that makes sense at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96972	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP representative Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96973	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your esteemed deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here and so far we have had the opportunity to hear the main reason for the adoption of this law is to comply with the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers, because, as in the case of courts and in the case of state lawyers here in the Assembly, we have passed a regulation that has started another stage of reorganisation and rationalisation of the work and business of the Croatian judicial system. This law represents the next small but important step in this. In fact, this law obliges the government and, above all, the Ministry of Justice to continue to monitor the effects of this reorganisation and rationalisation and to continue to take the measures necessary to continue to deliver results. This law defines the way in which, depending on the need for the inflow of the case, the speed of their resolution, etc., the establishment or suspension of the permanent services of certain municipal state attorneys or county attorneys, respectively, will be established. And the procedure has been defined, it is an explicit co-operation of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia through the main state attorney and ministry. Therefore, this is one provision that was necessary in the sense of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers but also necessary in terms of functioning and work of the State's Attorney's Office. Of course, this isn't the only change, the only newspaper in this law. I am pleased that the ministry has taken advantage of this opportunity and proposed another paper in the law, however, I would remind myself that if I'm not mistaken, I've changed seven times so that we can think about making a united text that would unite all these changes and supplement various ones and maybe pass a new Law on the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia but about that afterwards. What does this law bring us? In addition, it is arranged... inspections, particularly important to define the deadline for the delivery of the Annual Report on the work of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia. Now, my colleague Novak spoke before me of doubts as to how the State's Attorney's Office acted and in some way suggested that the SDP had an impact on his work. The SDP has not had this until now, and neither will it have in the future, especially when we have in mind the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorneyship which defines the way in which the cases are assigned, so that no one from the executive authority, from the legislative authority, is going to have an impact on the allocation of the case, but will make it an algorithm in a special procedure. Of course, it will still have to be kept in mind that some specific demanding items cannot be allocated in this way but would have to be assigned to those particularly experienced state lawyers, but these are the exceptions to the rules that need to be considered. We have had one problem in the last year and a half since our entry into the EU, and this has been a problem for our judicial officials to go to work in EU judicial bodies. It was not regulated how they go there, freezing their status, etc. This law takes that into account, the law addresses this problem and defines how the judicial officials of the Republic of Croatia go into office in the EU, that is, the way they will be able to work in EU judicial bodies. I think the solution is good, the period of four years is appropriate, so there is also a legal gap here that has existed so far. It's all about a good bill and the SDP will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96974	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Mladen Novak. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96975	Thank you very much. Well, I'm not sure if you've listened to me very carefully or if this was deliberately placed clean to prove something to me that I was speaking wrong. I didn't imply that the SDP had an impact on the work of the State's Attorney's Office, but I said if you've listened as well as you've done before. You were not in 2005, 2008 in power, or this coalition, thus not referring to that part. But the fact is it refers to the efficiency of the system. Yes, unfortunately, all these cases that are, or all the applications that are currently current and with which the reaction would be prevented in due time would be greater damage. Unfortunately, the State's Attorney's Office not only the State's Attorney's Office, but the general judiciary schedules and reacts far, far too late. That was my line if you listened well. And I hope this wasn't in bad faith on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96976	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96977	My apologies to my esteemed colleague Novak if I misunderstood you. I listened to his presentation, and I realized that you're implying that the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia is not taking action in one of the matters of your environment with which certain members of the SDP are being brought into contact, so you said. I just wanted to answer that this law provides for an amendment which will ensure that there is no longer an impact on which the case is being granted to the state attorney, and I hope that this will not only lead to more efficiency in the work of the state's attorneys but will lead to something equally important, which is an increase in the confidence of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the work of judicial institutions, because now nobody will be able to say that the cases and individual state lawyers, their deputies are being assigned work by their grandparents and uncles, but will do it an algorithm, it will do the computer, and it will seem completely anonymous without any external influence. Here, if I'm misunderstood, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96978	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. In fact, an interesting situation, a very similar law, was the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, which is now being followed by amendments and additions to the Law on State Law. In this previous inspired colleague, they talked more about how the rule of law is being exercised, how judges are slow, corrupt, and a whole series of objections we have heard more about the work of judges than about the matter of the law, while now under this other law is this criticism I would say completely lagging behind. That makes you very happy with the work of the state's attorneys, so there's no reason to criticise it. The reason could be the same law that speaks of the rationalisation of the network as with courts or is some other reason why you do not want to criticize the work of the state's attorneys and perhaps you are not satisfied with it. When we talk about the situation in the judiciary it's pretty hard to believe that we have so many objections to the work of regular courts, and not a single objection to the work of the state's attorneys. So I'm inclined to believe that this hasty review was provoked for some other reason, not because you have no objection to the work of the state's attorneys. On the other hand, I have to say something about this, the Law on the State's Attorney's Office was passed in 2009 seven times, which could be said almost twice a year, and it is really a question of whether we can regulate a stable system if we change the basic laws twice a year to which these institutions should act. To make things better, the Law on State's Attorney's Office says we're changing because we're changing the Law on Courts, and we're changing the Courts Act because we passed the Law on Courts at the end of last year, and then and then we had a reason to bring about the amendments to the Law on National Courts. This all goes hand in hand with the fact that we have a hyperproduction of the law and that often what we may have been able to do with a law like this has only led to further fragmentation of the area to lead to further legal uncertainty because no one alive can follow these huge changes and additions, and the question is how much they were necessary at all times. I am saying this because I am reading the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues that need to be regulated by the law and the consequences that will happen, or which will result, you can determine that in this network of state attorneys we are de facto changing the names. Somewhere, it suggests that on 1 April 2015, part of the state's attorney's office will stop working, but also those who will stop working as a state's attorney's office will become permanent services of newly established municipal state attorney's offices, and some so far the municipal state's attorney's office will become a permanent state's attorney's office, ultimately saying that the number will not actually change, but will change their name. What does not exist in this material, and I believe it would be interesting to know how much this reorganisation will affect the number of persons employed by the state's attorneys and whether this rationalisation will reduce and the number of these people, or if, in fact, it will grow because, as the applicant says, the municipal state's attorneyship of the new organisation will become a large municipal state attorney's office, which leads to the conclusion that they will further employ people, and not that they will rationalise the number of employees who work in these offices. However, a concrete remark or at least something that we can put to mind is Article 1 where Article 19a introduces itself into a law which states in its paragraph 2 "The permanent service and department outside the seat are the establishment units of the State's Attorney's Office which are established in the area of its jurisdiction in which, due to the number of inhabitants, there is a need for such action of the State's Attorney's Office" I have little to admit the vague formulation but certainly it which allows the Minister of Justice to decide at any time to establish a permanent service in one of these areas because it is fulfilled some of these reasons. I think these criteria have been laid out in such general terms that they allow you to just expand that service without, if you so want, the actual control of the need to expand the state's attorney's apparatus for these reasons as indicated. Therefore, our proposal would be until the second reading that if there are reasons for establishing new permanent services to be precise, taxing in law stated rather than in this general sense because this formulation allows permanent services, if you will and cartoonally after some time, to an unsuspecting extent. All in all, it seems that the reasons for the adoption of one, the other and the third law are a pure technique that leads us to change regulations every little bit. I agree entirely with my colleague Grbino that we should pass a new law or at least a consolidated text of all these amendments in order to know in the widest public which are the provisions of the law that gives great authority to one of the authorities, and then at least we have a text on which we can talk tomorrow when we talk about a report from a state attorney who was not an obstacle to you here first to hear the report and then to change the laws, it was an objection, it seems to me only to the courts. We didn't want to use this amendment of the law at all to talk about the work of the state's attorney's office, as it seemed for the courts, although we would have much to say about the work of the state's attorneys and the question is whether our grades would be as good and peaceful as our opinion that we've been brought into practice to change the law once more because we say that this leads to the rationalization of the system. The HDZ Club will support this Act, with the reference I have made to Article 1 to consider the criteria for establishing new permanent services, only the question remains if we can get an answer, would it be interesting if you are reducing this rationalisation, staying in the same number or increasing the number of employees in the state's attorneys? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96980	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96981	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Mlakar, I'm a little confused, first my colleague Grbin criticized me for unfair criticism then you're telling me I wasn't criticizing because I'm probably satisfied with the work of the state's attorneys. Well, now I'm going to try to repeat that I mentioned the case of Hajdash and HZ administration, and then Raiffeisen Savings, Kopa beach, then RIZ, then INA, so here we can add Adria to the transports, I don't know there's more. So it's not us, I've mentioned these specific cases and I can't say that I'm satisfied with the work of the state's attorney's office, but all these cases, at least most of them and Gredelj would not be in that ratio in which they eventually reacted in a timely and quality manner. You asked in the end whether this would result, this rationalization or so on. the rationalisation of whether it will result in an increase or a reduction in the number of public lawyers' employees. I would remind you that when the report was filed, the attorney general stated that there were 457 unfulfilled jobs in the state's attorney's offices. And if that results in an increase in numbers, I don't mind but then it certainly can't be that an assessment of the necessary means is that you don't need them. Then I'm sure it can't be. And your question is in place, but we can't read it from this. And then finally, what you've realized, in the end, you've tied yourself up to a debate from a fellow coat of arms, it's hard to follow all these changes, and that could be better done. There's an old folk who says good work should be kept safe. And this reminds me exactly that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96982	Thank you. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96983	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Novak, I said on purpose.../The speaker turned off and subsequently turned on./... I said mostly because as much as you criticized you do not represent most. You were the only ones in your presentation who spoke critically about the work of the state's attorneys while all those who spoke very harshly about the judiciary ignored this subject, so they had nothing to say about it. That's why I said, I had more of them at the time that we were talking about that the judiciary was slow, corrupt, that we were paying huge fees for the slowness of making court decisions, etc., and they had nothing to say about the work of the state's attorneys which in some way surprised me because I believe that this complex system is well interdependent and that you can't imagine the existence of one bad element if the other is so perfect that it can be concluded in the absence of criticism at the expense of the state's attorney's office. I said we have a lot of complaints about the state's attorney's office and everything that the public has brought up to now as problems that have not encountered a reaction from the state's attorney's office and we should have. That's what I was talking about in that performance by criticizing those who only talked about justice. On the other hand, it is saddened that we in fact cannot see from the amendments to the law whether the number of state lawyers or all the employees in the lawyers is growing or falling. By passing the law, there's such a constant category that every reorganization produces a new number of employees and that's what we're afraid of. It is not bad to fill the unfulfilled jobs that have been given in the framework, but it is a question of whether the filling will be accompanied by adequate work, and we very much doubt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96984	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96985	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected deputies with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Of course, I will support this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship because indeed after we have adopted the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers and something very similar to that of courts, this amendment and the addition of the Law on State Attorney's Office also follows. The objection that this law does not contain or that it may misstate the Rules of Procedure in its 3rd chapter of its introductory section, evaluations and sources of the necessary means to implement the law, that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. It may sometimes be incorrectly stated in relation to some law, and yet some additional means are needed, but from understanding the text and content which is the meaning and content of this law, it really is because this law only speaks for who does, and the tasks are given in areas and in part in the second part of the law. Therefore, it is only precise here in view of the amendments to the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys, which will be done more precisely and coordinated. And really if you see what the changes are, then it's hard to imagine at all which ones, which would result in a change or need to increase the funds. Although this was also a long-standing remark from the President of the Supreme Court, even the former Supreme Court president, and this was referred to by many of the Presidents of the Courts when they said that in the Croatian Parliament, when law is passed and especially those concerning courts, state attorneys are constantly giving judges and state lawyers the task of a new and new task, that this is not accompanied by adequate increases in financial resources. However, this is not the case in this case to amend and supplement the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. Furthermore, such criticism was also referred to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts and State Attorneys, and then to this Law on State Lawyers, that we do not know what the effects were, that all the effects of the measures taken in the judiciary so far were assessed, whether in the courts or in the courts, and in particular here we are talking about the State's Attorney's Office. For a note, 8-9 months he left the minister with his entire suite from the ministry, not only starting with Zagreb and presenting in this part of the reform to the state attorney's office, the President of the Supreme Court as a representative of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia but also as well as to all the presidents of the courts, he spoke to the court, so with the professional and general public, which means, ultimately, this change in itself in this organisational sense that they are not an organisation and change just so that something is done but what it will mean in a concrete sense to the citizens, what it means to the burden of individual judicial officials and what it will benefit the citizens. Likewise, it was said that in this sense it would be with the staff, as with the judicial staff, i.e. State attorneys, their deputies, advisers and other staff who work and who are employed by the State's Attorney's Office. This is all said and all of us MPs have received such a presentation here in the Croatian Parliament after everyone, the whole citizen, and I repeat the particularly professional public was familiar with it. And now that's what they say, by heart, it's not enough for us, we don't know. Those are irresponsible remarks. Although objections to criticizing the work of courts, state attorneys always have and should be, and this does not mean criticising the service of the whole, but rather talking about individual things that may then enhance the whole endeavor and the judicial authorities of us on this side to advance, rather than humiliate the judicial authorities because he and the success of their work in general depends on the trust that citizens have in them, and this trust unfortunately hard to achieve, but quickly disappears. So I see this bill of amendments and additions to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office really as one step forward about something that has been very much so far, it may not have been so defined but people have seen the consequences of things not going the way they should, and that means one legal certainty. This means that there is something criminal in the area of Vukovar and Zadar, that it cannot be a criminal offence in Zadar, and in Vukovar it is either in another city, but unfortunately it is happening today and therefore these measures are also that it does not happen, to remove those objections that citizens have and with full right, and then send it to us, so that it is even with the courts' case law and here to level the criminal policy. And in the end, they're justified by the criticism that many criminal charges have been, from a long time ago it says they don't know what happened to them. Maybe they were long ago and thrown away, where they were lucky because it's usually in our media with a big pompous announcement when it's not on the hands of what's been suggested, then you have no more words, no more letters. So, intensities, I see that really this bill of law is a step forward to let an investigation or any investigation go untraced, but to have its own or its kind of epilogue. If they were some basis of doubt, if there is no reasonable doubt that the case is stopped and regardless of the public pressure, and the public's pressure is high in certain cases on one side or on the other, whether it's offensive or it's defensive, which in any case makes it more difficult for the bodies of persecution and also for the courts we were just talking about. Of course, we here have to advocate this kind of independence, to defend against such attacks, not for the sake of the institutions themselves, but for citizens who appear in such procedures when it comes to the State's Attorney's office, then most often, especially in this criminal... The trial whether it's about the defendant or the victim. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, first of all, it's our job to secure what's here and propose to ensure even burdens because I can't do the state's attorneys in quality equal to the one who has several objects or the one that has very complex objects in great scale. So, with these changes, there is one even burden but also what is very important to me, and that is to allow for the mobility of deputy state attorneys. It was already mentioned here, someone mentioned it, and it's really crucial. Please, if a church changes bishops every little bit of a period, it changes and it is not just because someone resents someone, but in the smaller environments because of a shared life, there is a certain intimacy, there is a different relationship of friendship, familiarity, which then even the public doesn't even have to have that influence on such a state official, but in public it creates the impression that they are not in such cases completely objective. And that is why, we know about the Convention, the Montreal Convention, which is the fundamental principle of the independence of the judicial authority in the broadest sense of the word that they are unmovable which cannot, therefore, be moved either by the will of a superior person or by the will of a minister. But to allow mobility especially for those who demand it, who are willing to come to such an environment, and this is because of the announcements that were also mentioned here by the new state attorney-in-chief that such a person is then found the possibility and that such persons are precisely because of the increased costs because they are not their place of residence, the permanent place of residence, did not find adequate evaluation with the family so that all those objections that have been pointed out here in a direct or indirect way from all speakers so far were removed, and thus the fullness of all these changes and even these amendments and the addition of the laws were fully implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96986	And the final word of Deputy Minister, Mrs. Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96987	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In short, only two specific questions will be freely presented by the ministry. Therefore, the State Attorney's Office is certainly part of the judicial system and acts interdependently with the actions of the courts. The reconstruction of the state's attorney's office follows, of course, and is in line with the reshuffle of the courts. A concrete question has been raised whether the number of officials, deputies and officials within the state's attorneys will be increased, reduced or remain the same due to these reform measures and activities. No, of course not. What he often loses sight of, and I will use the opportunity to emphasize. The state's attorney's office in the area of its work is not only a criminal area of justice, but also a civil area. These 22 municipal state attorneys, who are set up under this proposal, allow state lawyers to move within each area depending on what needs to be done in order to be evenly burdened and, of course, through even burden, to achieve their appropriate effect. Part of the tool that will be very helpful here and on which we put the great accent are the framework criteria that we were talking about earlier. It was about the reasons why the district service should be established. I'll just say that we've defined those reasons at all, because unlike the previous setting-up of reasons for setting up or then abolishing the field service at all. Whether those who are now determined are precise enough or not can be discussed until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96988	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96989	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship, first reading, P.Z. No. 759. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Attorneyship 2 is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please plead. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 86 votes in favour and 1 abstentions, nothing against votes has been reached with the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96990	Moving to 3. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Inheritance, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 768. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Introducing the draft law, Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst will explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96991	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The law on succession is governed by the right to inherit and rules under which the court or other bodies or other authorised persons act in hereditary matters. In desert matters, first-degree proceedings are carried out by the Municipal Court, and, of course, it can be carried out by the public notary as the commissioner of the court. The existing provision setting out the official area of the public notary is contained in Article 245 and the Court of Justice will entrust the public notaries to the provisions of the Public Note Act on the official field of the public notary. The Law on Public Registration of the Official Area of the Public Note is related to the area of the law of a particular court in which it has its seat. If in the area of the court they have their seats two or more notebooks, the subject will be assigned equally in alphabetical order of the name of the public notary. The Law on Areas and Seats of Courts adopted in the Croatian Parliament on 24 October last year, which takes place in the most part on 1 April 2015, among other things, reorganises the network of municipal courts, determines their areas, competences and seats in which they will operate. As of 15 April 2015, therefore, the work of 44 municipal courts, i.e. the area of their jurisdiction, is being increased. Therefore, the remaining 24 municipal courts continue to work in an extended area of jurisdiction. By increasing the jurisdiction of municipal courts, the official fields of public notebooks are also increased, as the Law on Public Registration is an official area of the public notary related to the area of the law of a particular court in which it has its seat. In order to change the area of jurisdiction of municipal courts, it is necessary to align the way in which leftover cases are assigned to the work of public notaries with the new network of municipal courts and their area of jurisdiction and, above all, with the objective of making it accessible for citizens participating in the desert procedure. It is therefore proposed that the Court of Justice assigns matters to the work of public notaries established in the field of its jurisdiction in accordance with the rules adopted by the Minister of Justice. Within the area of jurisdiction of individual courts, the Regulation will lay down narrow areas for the allocation of leaven items to public notaries, according to the criteria of proximity to the place under which the local jurisdiction of the court is established for the conduct of the abandonment procedure and the place in which the notary has its seat. By doing so, the amendments and the area of jurisdiction of the courts do not adversely affect the exercise of the right of citizens to approach the public notary as the Commissioner of the Court, and a level playing field for the award of cases to public notaries is allowed. If there are several public notebooks in the field of a specific regulation on the schedule of work, we propose that the items be assigned equally in alphabetical order of the public notary's last name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96992	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP representative club colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96993	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP club will support the draft law amending the Enabling Act. The inheritance law has changed several times since 2003, four times, this would be five times. We remember and remember if it got out of our memory because it's no longer a problem since 2003, the undeniable legacy is not a problem. And no one's saying that anymore. And let us only remember until then that widows are usually either widows or widows but most often widows who did not have their pension had to wait a few years to get a family pension in order to get in line with the desert judge. Then what did we do in 2003? What made it possible for us and what was a miracle was not used before in such situations very difficult when practically only the reform of the judiciary began, so we used the institution, a service that was already quite stable at the beginning and developed very quickly because it was founded by the most experienced judges, especially in the civil branch of the trial. Therefore, the Law on Inheritances has made it possible for desert procedures which are not disputed to be assigned to the work of public notaries as Commissioners of the Courts. And still today there are opportunities to in the so-called. the non-judicial matters of which there is also an EU directive on all judiciarys, on the judiciary of all countries to dissipate your judiciary, your judicial system, to make as much use of other services, agencies. And we just have an institution, a public notary service where such cases that are not the trial in the most basic sense of the word that the judiciary is unloaded and really concentrates on solving civil proceedings and solving criminal cases in the criminal section. So here we can say that we have no more problems, and these changes are going on exactly what she's been talking about right now, so I don't want to repeat what Ms. Deputy Minister said to evenly deploy these cases, given that there's been a suspension of a number of municipal courts... in the area of jurisdiction of the public notary. And in those places, you better tell the cities, which have more public notebooks so as not to favour a certain public notary because in other assignments where public records do not appear as court commissioner, these are serious remarks. Of course, jurisdiction over the ministry has its sole purpose. Here we get comments and such remarks certainly and stand in the good part, but here this bill also takes care of the fact that the items will be awarded equally in the alphabetical order of the public notary's last name. And one more thing, here's what I started out with very briefly with these long-term items, or waiting for that object to be put into work at all, to get the parties called, better said heirs. Today we have a case that often parties as heirs pray because in yet another period of mourning, mourning because public notebooks do do excellently this job, but I believe that here is something more experienced water now taken care of and that that one period of pite is passing and that so the hearings on these items are scheduled within the appropriate time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96994	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96995	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. We have yet another draft law in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. The Proposer finds the need to adopt amendments to the Law on Inheritance in order to comply with the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts and with previous laws of the Law on Courts, the Law on the State's Attorneyy, and the fact that a new rationalisation of the network of courts has been adopted which entails the harmonisation of the law from the jurisdiction of the judiciary. This proposal for a law amending the Law on Inheritance only contains amendments through three articles. I don't think there's any need to repeat what the Deputy Minister said and since the changes are of a positive nature and are in line with the already adopted Law on Areas and Courts, the HDZ Club will also support this Bill amending the Law on Heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96996	And on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Vesna Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96997	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club also supports the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Inheritance We fully agree with the current arguments and SDP Clubs and Deputy Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96998	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u96999	Proposal for a law amending the Law on Inheritance, first reading, P.Z. No. 768. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending the Inheritance Act 2 is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please plead. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 2 votes abstentions and nothing against votes has been reached a proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97000	And we're going to go to: 4. Proposed bankruptcy law, first reading, P.Z. No. 777. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the proposer, the bill will be explained by the Deputy Minister of Justice, Ms Sandra Artuković Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97001	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. These are much more extensive changes than those we have proposed in the previous three laws. The bankruptcy law was passed in May of '96 and entered into force on 1st January '97. Since the entry into force, it has been amended and amended seven times all with the aim of creating conditions for the more efficient implementation of the bankruptcy procedure. The need for a new bankruptcy law stems from the need to find a longer and more complete solution to the insolvency problem in economic business, the removal of legal institutes that slow down bankruptcy proceedings, and the introduction of new solutions that will ensure conditions for the achievement of efficiency and pre-banking but also bankruptcy proceedings with less costs and with the acceleration of behaviour, of course with the preservation of legal certainty and the rule of law. The problems observed in these cases are the ineligible launch of bankruptcy proceedings, the length of bankruptcy proceedings, the length of litigation procedures and other proceedings resulting from bankruptcy, the intransparentity of bankruptcy proceedings, the inability to carry out activities during bankruptcy proceedings, the inability to create a bankruptcy plan without restriction, the long-term long-term and high cost of cashing out broken rights in executive procedures, unsuccessful auctions, the inability of the insolvency mass to acquire a personality or right of ownership and the inability to assign a personal identification number to it, and thus to open the account to be able to assume rights and obligations, insufficient control of the absence of sanctioning of persons participating in bankruptcy proceedings. Allow me to present several statistics, so from 28 EU member states to 24th place after the duration of bankruptcy proceedings. Bulgaria, Romania, Greece and Slovakia are behind us. In the Republic of Croatia, bankruptcy procedures last on average three years while the European average is 1.5 years. We sought to regulate and include the pre-trial procedure by this proposal of the law, of course, as a court procedure. The jurisdiction of commercial courts for the conduct of prejudicial proceedings shall be excluded, and the financial agency shall remain the authority of the pre-trial procedure in terms of technical and administrative assistance to courts. They will publish the necessary information on the e-mail board, draw up tables, submit documentation to the judge and so on. The reasons for opening the pre-departure procedure differ from the reasons for opening the bankruptcy proceedings. The aim of this distinction is to initiate and lead the pre-emptive procedure even at that stage when the debtor did not find himself in such problems that could lead to bankruptcy proceedings, so at that stage where business is possible, it is more likely to maintain his business. Pre-party reasons are a threatening inability to pay and incompetence to pay which is not more permanent. The threatening inability to pay is defined as the likelihood that the debtor of his already existing obligations will not be able to fulfil his or her maturity. Where the debtor in the register of the order of payment has a registered basis whose amount exceeds 20% of the amount of its liabilities published in the annual report for the preceding financial year and if more than 30 days are late with payment of the salary under the labour contract, labour contract, collective contract or special regulation, or under another act governing its obligations to the worker. If more than 30 days do not pay contributions and pay taxes counting from the day on which the worker was obliged to do so. For the purposes of bankruptcy, we shall bring about a more permanent incompetence to pay, therefore, the inability to pay for longer payments in the event that, in the register of the order of payment, we have recorded unfulfilled payment grounds for a period of more than 60 days. The second bankruptcy is over-indebted, so if the assets of the undertakings do not cover existing obligations and the possibility to initiate bankruptcy proceedings are also these pre-determined reasons and this set of pre-departure reasons as reasons for launching the bankruptcy proceedings have been left as a possibility. The pre-departure procedure may be initiated on a proposal by the debtor or the creditor if the debtor agrees with that proposal. The creditor's consent shall be accompanied by a proposal for the opening of the bankruptcy procedure. The court is obliged to decide on the proposal within 8 days of the date of submission of the proposal. The proposal for the opening of a pre-trial procedure shall be published on the e-published panel of courts and in the court register. It's a special matter of applying for requests. The claims referred to in the proposal for the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings shall be deemed to have been declared. The introduction of the obligation of different and exclusive creditors to declare their rights and to make a written statement on the postponement of the settlement from the cases covered by their different right or the separation of objects subject to their exclusive right in order to implement the financial and operational restructuring plan. If no delay statement has been delivered, it will be considered that the believer has not agreed to postpone the settlement. The request application may be accompanied by a full, formatted voting form on the financial and operational restructuring plan. We paid particular attention to the order of actions and deadlines in the actions to be taken. So we have set and provided for a 15-day deadline from the day of publication of the ad for the application of requests to the regional competent centre of the Financial Agency. In the next 8 days, the Commissioner shall give a written statement on any declared demand in the sense of whether or not it recognises or contests it. In the next 8 days it is possible to contest the requests reported and for a further 8 to 15 days, the hearing is scheduled to be held for search testing. This limits the duration of the pre-trial procedure to 120 days from the date of opening of the procedure with the possibility of extending plus 90 days only if the court has assessed the useful extension of the deadline. The court will always designate the commissioner of bankruptcy by automatic selection. By leaving the possibility that if the majority of the credentials in the application are requested by the Commissioner, the Commissioner may be ordered to suspend his duties. The claims notified within the time limit prescribed by this law shall be deemed to have not been disputed by the debtor, the Commissioner or any of the creditors. The claims challenged by the debtor, the Commissioner or which of the creditors must of course be discussed, the contested claims will be referred to the court in a case in which the funds for their satisfaction can be reserved. We have devoted part of the provision to regulating the vote on the bankruptcy plan. In order to vote on it, it is necessary that the plan contains all established and contested claims and that the plan is in line with the State aid rules. The pre-departures shall be classified according to the right of vote in those groups which agree with the proposed plan and within a group which does not agree with the plan. We also distinguish between believers whose demand is diminished by their statement of consent. Believers whose demand is reduced in accordance with the law, therefore, this is 10% of the established demand without the consent of the creditors. The established demand reduced to 10% cannot be converted into another form of settlement and must be met within 2 years of the date of confirmation of the pre-fashion agreement. These creditors will lose their right to vote but have the right to object to the reduction of their rights below the level they would reasonably expect to achieve in the event of non-restructure of the business of the debtor. Those creditors whose search has been challenged have in relation to them and possible funds reservations. Believers whose claims are not affected by the pre-departure procedure are workers, their claims are reported by the debtor, checked by the Commissioner, are formally creditors because they do not have the right to vote for their claims. In relation to the required majority, we count 20% of all the creditors, and this is based on the sum of the amount of the credentials who voted in favour of the plan of financial and operational restructuring greater than the sum of the amount of demand of the creditors who voted against the plan. Unless any of the creditors makes it likely that the financial and operational restructuring plan reduces the rights below the level that would reasonably be expected to be achieved in the event of failure to implement the restructuring of the business of the debtor or if it turns out that implementation of the plan will not be likely to enable payment to the debtor for the period until the end of the current or in the next calendar year. And a third exception if no funds are planned for creditors whose demand is disputed. The pre-departure agreement shall be subject to provisions on the effects of the confirmed bankruptcy plan and the supervision of its implementation. It will be considered that the debtor is significantly delayed in meeting the plan if he has not paid the commitment due even though the believer has sent a written notice and has set a subsequent deadline of at least 15 days. A decision to confirm the plan may be made to ensure that it is met and supervised. If the supervision is provided for after the pre-departure procedure is concluded, it will be monitored whether the debtor fulfils his obligations to the creditors. We have paid particular attention to the introduction of standardised bankruptcy forms that will allow both the records and the transparency of the conduct. As far as the bankruptcy proceedings are concerned, the opening of the proceedings has been provided for in our official duty to ensure the timely implementation of the bankruptcy proceedings, and in the event that the pre-departure proceedings fail, the judge shall adopt a decision on the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings without the implementation of the previous proceedings, and there shall be no exception. Where a person in the register of the order of payment has a registered non-executive basis for payment over 120 days, the Financial Agency shall submit a proposal for the opening of a bankruptcy procedure within 3 days of the expiry of that period. We've got a transitional model here. The financial agency is hereby exempt from payment of a court fee for a proposal to open a bankruptcy proceedings. Redefined content of the proposal to open the bankruptcy process, we have also introduced a form. The possibility of continuing operations is restored during the bankruptcy process through the bankruptcy plan, as well as the development of a bankruptcy plan without restrictions. The debtor may therefore propose guidelines for the adoption of a bankruptcy plan. The report hearing will be closed by the start of a job that is required to prevent damage to the property of the creditor and those tasks for which the creditor finds useful for bankruptcy. At the report hearing, the creditors decide whether the debtor's business will continue or be suspended. The decision to continue or suspend business can be amended by the creditors in any of the religious congregations. The continuation of business shall be allowed for a maximum period of one and a half days from the reporting hearing, unless a bankruptcy plan has been submitted to the judge. The web page of the e-advertising panel of courts is being introduced precisely for the purpose of transparency that we have previously talked about, which will publish all the letters which are subject to bankruptcy law for which the publication is prescribed in the form of a public statement, but also for all other letters for which it is prescribed by means of the court’s advertising panel. So it's leaving the publication mandatory in the National Journal. This ensures transparency of the procedure and reduces costs. The exemption of the applicant's payment of advances to cover the costs of the procedure was provided if the Financial Agency received confirmation that the funds were necessary for the advance to be allocated to a special account. As regards the costs of advances to cover the previous procedure, it should be pointed out that they rarely reported situations in which the proposal was rejected for the opening of the bankruptcy procedure because these costs were not... both by the creditors because it was too high an advance which was to be paid to him by the debtor and by the debtors, because of the fact that he did not have the funds in the account to cover it. Therefore, the mechanism of confiscation of funds in the account of debtors is introduced in order to free the applicant of the obligation to pay an advance to cover the costs of the previous procedure, all with a view to the timely initiation of the bankruptcy procedure. The possibility of a reasonable believer leaving is that, in the executive procedure following the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings, they are cashing in the items on which they have separate rights. In fact, so far, the various creditors have had the opportunity to initiate the executive procedure in order to force their demand by selling cases on which there is a distinct right and following the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, while those enforcement procedures that were initiated before the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings after the suspension were resumed. The result of such a solution is increased costs resulting from executive procedures and an increase in the duration of the bankruptcy process itself, since real estate or any other subject in which there is a distinct right to sell more slowly in the executive process than in the bankruptcy procedure, and without the completion of the enforcement procedure, it was not possible to conclude a bankruptcy procedure either. In this respect, the property on which there are distinct rights will be sold in a bankruptcy procedure at the first hearing at the established value. If the property could not be sold in this way, at each subsequent hearing the lowest selling price of the property is reduced by 20% of the previous value. The sale of real estate is based on the rules of the Executive Act, and we have recently arranged this in terms of e-possessment, in terms of enrolment in the eyewitness of the FINA, is therefore being sold in one place for all the items that are sold. If the creditor at the reporting hearing has not otherwise determined the methods and conditions of sale applicable to the distinction rights, what we have been saying about all the assets of the debtor shall apply to a reasonable right. In order to ensure faster implementation of the bankruptcy procedure, it is proposed that the court, in the proceedings in which the party is a creditor, always draws particular attention to the need for a swift settlement of the case, first-degree and 6 months second-rate respectively. The length of other types of court proceedings stemming from an open bankruptcy procedure is one of the major problems affecting the duration of bankruptcy proceedings and the unsettled relationship with the creditor is being put at risk as a hindrance to further business. The conditions for the registration and erasure of bankruptcy managers from the list of bankruptcy managers are also changed. It introduces their appointment of random selection, with the exception that, if the creditor considers that the creditor chosen by a method of random or random selection does not have the necessary expertise or business experience for the insolvency proceedings in question, he may appoint another person from the list of bankruptcy managers, but of course it should be explained in this regard. A liability insurance obligation shall be prescribed for damages to the rules on the liability of a lawyer. The lack of insurance is the reason why a person could be deleted from the list of bankruptcy managers and, by official duty, by the decision of the Minister of Justice. We're introducing two lists of bankruptcy managers for the area of each court. List A managers with experience and list B managers without experience. Only a person on the list of bankruptcy managers for the area of the competent court may be appointed as a insolvency administrator. Lists of bankruptcy managers shall be published on the website of the e-mail board of courts. The list of bankruptcy managers may include a person of course who has a business capacity, who has completed a graduate university study or a higher education with at least 300 ETC points, who has passed a professional examination for the bankruptcy manager, who has successfully completed professional training for one year and who is, of course, worthy of performing the business of the bankruptcy manager. The list of insolvency managers shall not be subject to the registration of a person against whom the criminal proceedings under official duty have been brought, who has been convicted for a criminal offence for which such proceedings have been initiated, which has been deleted from the list of bankruptcy managers for failure to comply with the Court's conclusion until three years after the date of erasure, who has been relieved of his or her duties as a insolvency administrator for more than two bankruptcy proceedings in the course of three years until three years have passed since the date of erasure and until he has again passed the examination for the insolvency administrator. And of course, the bankruptcy manager can't be the person who's overindebted. On the website, an e-investment board of courts will publish a list of all bankruptcy managers with an indication of pre-demand and bankruptcy proceedings in which they are appointed as commissioners of temporary bankruptcy managers and bankruptcy managers. It will be published the way of their election, the indication of the debtor and the bankruptcy judge leading the proceedings, the indication of the resolution and the reason for the resolution if cash penalties have occurred. The list is automatically updated and published within the system of e-lists we talked about earlier. The Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary will prescribe this procedure in detail. We are introducing a duty to publish written reports by the bankruptcy managers on the course of the bankruptcy proceedings and on the state of the bankruptcy mass, at least once within three months, or when requested by a bankruptcy judge or a Committee of Trustees. In addition to these important new provisions, we have and, therefore, I will conclude, an important and important provision concerning the registration of bankruptcy in the court register with the automatic allocation of the personal identification number of the bankruptcy mass needed to bring later found assets of the debtor into that mass, and this subsequent finding of the property would not be an obstacle to the bankruptcy proceedings being carried out and completed. To end editing the gray zone in the bankruptcy of connected persons. In bankruptcy proceedings over two or more connected persons, including a debtor who has a dominant influence, one bankruptcy manager will be appointed. There is one congregation of believers and one Committee of Prophets in such matters. A local court has jurisdiction over the seat of a debtor who has a ruling influence. In these cases, there is one bankruptcy mass and the mutual demand of the connected persons ceases. I've made it a little longer. I've been trying to put out the essentials briefly, and I believe this law will cause enough debate until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97002	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Linić – Vuksic and Hodzic, colleagues Slavko Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97003	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Ministry representatives, Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to point out immediately that our club will support the proposal of the bankruptcy law in the first reading. In my debate, I will only stick to some of the reasons why there is a completely new text of the bankruptcy law. First of all, it is interesting that the reason for these changes is primarily the conclusion of the European Commission since 12 March 2014 which is concerned with a huge problem in which around 200 thousand economic operators in all European Community countries are not solvable, does not pay, where over a year over a million and seven hundred thousand workers are left out of work. And who assessed that the liquidation of such entities is not acceptable but that it is primarily necessary to do everything to try to help such an entrepreneur through the creditors, through I would tell the state in a way that they can carry out restructuring procedures in order to stay on the market. It was one of the reasons for amending this law. The second thing that is common in Europe is the very high cost of opening the bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings in Croatia it seems to me 20,000 kunas each promoter should have paid to open the procedure. And, of course, the characteristic of Europe is the long-term bankruptcy procedures that were primarily inefficient, and on the other hand they lost both debtors and creditors. In view of these arguments, I think it would be of great quality that in the second reading as an introduction to this material we have reports of FINA on pre-fashion agreements from 31.10 or 1.10.02 last year, let's see really what the effects of pre-fashion are, given that this new institute is being built on. But let's also see what weaknesses are in the bankruptcy process, because what was available then we see a huge ineffectiveness in the last 10 years, where the average of the final bankruptcy was over 5 years. In complex cases, up to 15 years, and the collection of creditors on average over the last 10 years is about 10%, and in the last two years, slightly less than 6%. These are the data that are available to us, but it would be good to see them here before the second reading itself, because they would really influence some of the provisions that we have in this law and try to really define ourselves for certain articles in this law. I will very briefly, given that the new FINA Report was given on pre-departure settlements, try to indicate the results of the fina data for the reason that a part of the judges in particular of the commercial courts were strongly resisting the implementation of pre-departure settlements. So, if we turn around again, we see that Europe has started the process of amending bankruptcy laws to fight for the survival of entrepreneurs. I think this Parliament can be pleased with its work in that part because, at the end of 2012, we adopted the Financial Business Act and the pre-fashion settlement. Because we have estimated that the situation in the Croatian economy is so difficult, so burdensome, that debts are enormous and that certain procedures must be done all to restructure these entrepreneurs. So what's the score? 15 300 less blocked legal entities. Through pre-fashion settlements, they were resolved and survived in the 22 800 workers' system of work. And the total blocked payment system in Croatia has been reduced by 12.6 billion kuna. In just over 2 years, FINA managed to receive 7 570 items, of which 6 960 were solved, and 611 cases were resolved in the process. Thus, 67.8 billion total mutual debts and claims came to be resolved in the FINA. 56.6 billion were resolved and we're still solving about 11 billion. These are the results of two years of work under the administrative procedure, where it was sought primarily to be used by the Croatian state institutions because FINA is an institution of the Croatian state. And the competent ministry to resolve the accumulated problems in the economy. As we can see successfully. It may also be necessary to list that most of the pre-fashion proceedings were in the system of construction, food industry, trade and services, tourism and hospitality, as well as professional scientific and technical activities. Somewhere 80% of the employees were those who kept their jobs in those activities. 82% of the obligations in these activities were resolved and 72% of the cases were resolved. What we can't be satisfied with is that FINA submitted 3 678 bankruptcy applications based on negative solutions. We didn't get any information as to how many bankruptcys were made under that request from the FINA. Does this mean that there are still 3,678 legal entities in the system that the credentials have said are not required to function and are insisted on bankruptcy? And by judges, some, commercial courts, we have an uninterrupted remark that the administration, we, as a parliamentary authority, executive power as a government, interfere in their business. And it is evident that over 3,600 cases have not been resolved. It just shows how important it is to keep a system of pre-fashion settlements in the present final bankruptcy law. Indeed, we believe that it is necessary to define this system through the Banking Act. Which was not possible at first because it was a very complex process of changing the law itself, yet it was carried out through administrative procedures. And with all the objections, the objections, I would say the anthems that have been thrown at pre-profit settlements, we can still see that these are procedures that have given very, very large administrative activity and I think they should be thanked for that, but also huge results. And in the number of jobs saved, legal persons and in solving the system of mutual claims and obligations. When we talk about the long-term process, I think it's a very sensitive area, and two things that can always have consequences and proposed solutions. One is the process of continuing economic activity after the bankruptcy has been opened. It is always a question of whether it is possible for an economic operator to run a court and a bankruptcy manager in a global market. In fact, as you can see here, it's now said that it's about a year and a half at the most, and possibly by the judge's decision and longer. For a year and a half of the court proceedings, I think it's an unsustainable time. Therefore, we can understand some of this, but the process will continue to be very difficult and we will actually get what is the biggest problem, again long-term proceedings. Try to explain to yourself why the Zagreb Company of Commerce is bankrupt to Us for 15 years. Can anyone explain that to themselves? It's not a religious interest, it's not an employee, whose interest is that? 15 years. Try to explain the bankruptcy of Glamina Banka, City Bank of Osijek 15 years, the proceedings are not completed. Was that a religious interest? It's not. Those were abuses. Therefore, I think that it should seriously consider the Institute of Continuing Production in Banks. The completion of certain activities to reduce the mass yes, the continuation of production does not. It is impossible in the global market to leave it to the bankruptcy manager and the court. And I think if we really want to fight to continue production, which is an interest, then we need to stimulate pre-fashion settlements. Let the creditors choose by their contribution whether, through the write-off, whether to enable the continuation of production through the entry into capital. And a pre-trial procedure that is 120 plus maximum per judge for another 90, 200 days, that's quite enough for the debtor, the employees, the creditors under the protection of the judge to decide what to do. But there is no continuation of production in bankruptcy. And that will be our biggest problem if we stay at that institute when we pass this law, and we ourselves determine that we are approaching a change in all this because of the length of the procedure. Therefore, it is preferable that the longer procedure in pre-fashional because it again decides on a continuation of production, the credentials decide with their contributions. Otherwise, if it's a continuation of production, believe me, there'll be less interest in pre-fashion settlements, and then even though we have this institute set out in the law, I'm afraid we'll be more determined for bankruptcy. We also said that the costs of applying for bankruptcy were high, that in Europe they were high, and here we have two institutes, one institute is a fee of 10 thousand, and the other is an advance that can determine the judge's burden on the applicant, meaning on the burden of the creditors. Well, I think we should really say no to a 10 grand tax then, and we shouldn't regulate it. And speaking of advances, first of all, on the burden of the debtors, only if we judge the burden of the believers. Because let's be honest, no one will be condemned to file demands again we will have later processes and delays in the process and it will be very difficult to find a solution between debtors and creditors, and also be assured of the self-assessment of what is the previous procedure and whether bankruptcy will be opened, all this will be so questionable that the creditors will run away from submitting the request. At that time, we will only have FINA requests if FINA can submit a request based on its data. Here I am warning only these two important institutes to make them more effective in law enforcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97004	The colleagues Grubisic and Cain are not present, so the club of independent representatives loses the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97005	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'll start my presentation on the bankruptcy law with the following words, and that's chapter 11. Some will wonder what chapter 11 has to do with the bankruptcy law. So when we call it his original name chapter 11 that is perhaps the most important part of the U.S. Banking Law, that is the part of the U.S. Banking Law that regulates situations where bankruptcy does not lead to the termination of the business of a creditor but rather to its survival and continuation of business in a reorganised form. Even that economy that we consider to be the character of liberal capitalism in its bankruptcy law knows the bankruptcy of what he once called it and what we call it most common and knows, and it is aware that it is an extremely important instrument of action of bankruptcy or rescue of the national economy. The bankruptcy shall not lead to the end of the operation of the creditor or of the entrepreneur. However, we must also bear in mind that the bankruptcy that leads to the termination of the activity of entrepreneurs on the market is not something that needs to be stegmatised. The bankruptcy is like the liquidation, like the establishment, like work and action, one of the moments in every company's life. It's a very quality bankruptcy procedure that ensures what I've talked about before, which is the survival of the debtor, but also that ensures the possibility of the credentials to reconcile at least part of their search is the basis of the survival of every market economy. Unfortunately, not only in the public, but also in the bankruptcy law itself, and I will repeat it once again because it's worth saying, this law has been changed seven times, so not only in the public, but also in the bankruptcy law we often didn't know what we wanted with bankruptcy. Do we want the bankruptcy to be just a second name for the liquidation, for the liquidation that is initiated by third parties when the creditor cannot fulfil his obligations and the liquidation that leads to, let's say, death and the winding-up of the creditor. Or we wanted something more. And even when we wanted more results of such a desire, they were not the most commendable. I hope someone will correct me or supplement me but I really can't say that this is how I remember more than two bankruptcy proceedings that led to the survival of a creditor. I'll tell Viktor Lenac, I'll tell Pevec, but there's hardly any more examples of bankruptcy that led to the survival of the creditor. And in this context, I welcome the fact that this law recognized all the elements of the bankruptcy process. And those concerning the collection of creditors, the protection of their rights as well as the part of the bankruptcy procedure that guarantees the survival of the creditor, which guarantees the preservation of jobs and guarantees the continuation of production, i.e. on the market. As far as the provisions themselves are concerned, and in my view, the most significant newspaper is also related to this desire to preserve the activity of entrepreneurs on the market, and this is the introduction of a pre-fashion procedure in the bankruptcy law and the placing of this pre-departure procedure, which is logically and firstly in the law. As I have already said, we have had 7 amendments to the bankruptcy law but, in addition, the bankruptcy legislation, in a broader sense, has changed other laws. The law that regulated so far has been out of bankruptcy proceedings. And that law has experienced a whole series of changes and additions. I think we've been in bankruptcy legislation when we've added protection of workers' rights and so on intervened 12 or 13 times since '96, since the first adoption of the bankruptcy law. Now pre-warrant proceedings, pre-warrant settlement enters the bankruptcy law. Dear counterpart Linic spoke before me about the importance of pre-fashion settlement, the distinguished deputy spoke very closely about the elements of this pre-fashion settlement, so I have little to add except to point out that this was about an extraordinary measure that was necessary for the Croatian economy. This was about an extraordinary measure that was introduced into the Croatian legal system by consensus of all political options in the Croatian Parliament. Did she get everything we expected from her? It's not. But she got a lot of things. Did she leave her tails behind? Well, it probably is, but these are things that will unfortunately have to be dealt with by the judiciary. However, it is a fact that no one can deny that this pre-accession settlement, or radical solution, was necessary because the economic situation in the country was extremely difficult and complex. And that pretense deal was when we draw the line that led to positive results. Now it is time and it is here before us and it is embedded in this law that this pre-profit settlement from a temporary institute, from an institute that has so far been settled in administrative proceedings, is located where it should be. And that's in the bankruptcy law, in court proceedings. I therefore welcome this proposal, which in the bankruptcy proceedings, i.e. in the bankruptcy law, builds on a pre-demand settlement, this proposal that strengthens the role of the court, this proposal which strengthens the role of Commissioners, but also retains the role of FINA in the whole process. It is especially important for me here to mention one more thing about the pre-fashion settlement, how it will be governed by this law and what is important and that the pre-fashion settlement is not a mandatory stage in the process. A pretense settlement is voluntary. A pre-departure settlement occurs only when the debtor considers that there are elements for continuing business and repaying debts, of course in reduced form and after that both the creditors and the court approves it in the legal procedure. As regards the bankruptcy procedure, what needs to be pointed out here, it itself means a bankruptcy procedure, that is to speed up the process which is a thread of guidance when introducing all amendments to this law. We welcome, of course, the provisions concerning the deposit of the debtor’s assets, i.e. provisions concerning the fact that the claims of the various creditors will also be charged in the course of the bankruptcy process, so there will be no need to conduct additional executive procedures, which is good because on the one hand all these procedures are being accelerated, which is why we have a review of all the activities in the bankruptcy process. But also in this way, the burden of courts will be reduced because, of course, the number of procedures to be conducted will be reduced. Furthermore, this law also prescribes time limits for courts to resolve proceedings in which the party is a bankruptcy debtor, both first-degree and second-degree. The deadline shall be set for a period of 6 months. Of course we all have to support this one deadline, but I have to warn the competent ministry that I think they are aware themselves that this is an instructive period and we in Croatia have a very, very negative experience with these instructive deadlines. I'm going to ask you to keep an eye on how these deadlines are respected and then see if this deadline should turn into something strict and see if we can predict any sanctions for disrespect. But the fact that only this declarative demand to end proceedings in 6 months is still to be honest won't lead to excessive acceleration of these proceedings. Furthermore, what is good and that is to regulate the liability of insurance to the bankruptcy manager. The bankruptcy manager must be provided under... conditions as well as by a lawyer. The question here is whether the time has come to re-regulate the conditions under which lawyers are being provided because I feel that the amounts to which they are now must be provided are insufficiently high given the cases in which they work and the amount of damage that could occur, given the amount of premiums, and I am now not only speaking as a politician but also someone who comes from that profession, I think there is room to increase the mandatory amounts to be provided to lawyers, and consequently by the provisions of this law and the bankruptcy managers. It's also already been discussed with the State's Attorney's Office Act. And here a random or one choice of anonymous, computer, person who will perform the duties of bankruptcy managers is introduced. Ms. Deputy has very detailedly prescribed what will be taken care of and what every bankruptcy manager will have to meet, she described two lists, experienced and those who are just coming, but we still accept this provision but she requires supervision of the work of these bankruptcy managers, not only by the court but also by the ministry and taking all measures that those bankrupt managers who show up unquality will be deleted from the list of bankruptcy managers. Furthermore, delivery issues or disclosure of information on insolvency proceedings are regulated. I also support the provisions on the sale of real estate, which will be dealt with here by way of FINA. I think it's shrinking there too, it's extremely reducing the possibility of abuse, and it needs to be welcomed. And I'm going to finish in short, it's extremely good that we're passing a new law on bankruptcy proceedings, which we haven't reached for any changes and additions, and given the extent that these changes and additions would have, I don't know how they could have done it at all. So it's very good that after almost 20 years we get a brand-new bankruptcy law. This law will not achieve any revolution in the bankruptcy process, and we must all be aware of that. As of tomorrow, only because of this law, bankruptcy in Croatia will work significantly better. It will work better, but we have a full number of years ahead of us and the awareness that bankruptcy procedures must be initiated, sanctions for those who do not run them and were obliged, but also awareness of what this bankruptcy procedure can bring in order that we can finally be satisfied with the results that come in this process. Of course, the SDP Representatives' Club will support this law in its first reading, and we believe that we will soon get a final bill where the ministry will respect all or at least most of the remarks that have come and presented in today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97006	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97007	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy, MPs and MPs. I have to admit that in some way we at the club, and I think in the Croatian public, this bill that actually unites and changes in many ways in many proceedings and bankruptcys and advances, in some way went under the radar, I tried to get information about the public debate, about how much this has actually been updated and there is no God knows what kind of public debates, there were a couple of round tables, relatively little, and this timing shows some way and our actual interest in this problem. In fact, this bankruptcy law affects in its essence either in its implementation or in the way it will actually be formulated, affects actually a large number of our fellow citizens, the question of their existence and the question of their jobs and their future. And I hope, in fact, even after this first reading, that the Proposer won't rush with the second reading, so that at least he'll leave the first and second reading open space to discuss this. But to get back to the beginning. So as a club, as well as other clubs, we supported the pre-profit settlement when it appeared in terms of high debt to a country that had an economy and a legal person in the Republic of Croatia and in full and when it was as it was today quite certain that the largest part of what the tax, which the debt for contributions can't and will never really be paid. Under the conditions of the long-term recession and the constant decline in the number of jobs, in conditions of the increasing competitiveness of the Croatian economy and of the worse structure of the Croatian economy, we felt, and today we also believe that Croatia's society and Croatian economic policy must actually focus most of the measures on jobs, so on the issue of retaining employment because Croatian employment with 1.4 million employees is already unsustainable today, unsustainable. And we see that we are so lowly competitive that every job that opens in the price of creating that job is not below, on average moving from 100 to 200 to 300 thousand euros per new job, means cumulatively what is the cost actually to create that job in the real sector. And that is why we believed that this is a moment as it is today, that the Croatian state is actually stepping forward with certain measures, even if you want political interventionism because the legal system that it was effective and it was adequate and it was fast enough and it was intended we probably wouldn't have the kind of state and bankruptcy we had. What we believed was that apart from this political interventionism that was probably needed in this area, similar steps were actually to be made in several other areas. They didn't happen. Therefore, especially when it comes to the issue of tax debt and citizenship for which it was also completely certain and quite clear that, to the greatest extent, that debt will also not and can not actually return to the amount in which it exists. It was a question of the Law of Personal Banks, a quality act of personal bankruptcy that had not actually occurred. And there's still a few other areas. This would also be a further issue of monetary policy, which also appeared in the years and in these recession years, particularly if it were as unsustainable and as a third element had then reached, so that it had actually reached into the dubious economies, citizenship and the problem of monetary policy and in the period of entry into the EU, perhaps it was actually a chance to emerge from a recession that clearly did not come out at all. What the implementation of the Law on Pre-departure settlement proved to be a weakness and indeed a great weakness is what developed different strange claims in pre-fashional settlements, especially claims arising from related societies, and for which several amendments to the law that the proponent had not actually considered or prevented. And it was one practice that began to show actually deviating in pre-departure settlements, and it was not really the will to simply legalize these claims, which could actually be regulated to end them. And the second thing that began to happen was that it began to happen among Croatian companies that simply the results of bad business were trying to solve in a way, and even companies that would help you do so. I'm gonna go clean up the balances now by pushing the company into a pre-determined settlement, and I'm gonna clean up my debts, and I'm gonna move on. I think the idea of a pre-fashion deal wasn't that in this way companies simply do bad business clean, but that they actually save jobs and keep those companies that have a future. On the other hand, we had this, and it's obvious, actually, the pressure of a judicial lobby that couldn't forgive that the whole situation had gotten out of hand and that they were constantly putting pressure on this whole process to get back under their wing again, and we saw how through the bankruptcy law, it actually worked relatively badly for decades. In this scarce public debate, which appeared, of course, the interested public defended their interest positions. So the bankruptcy managers, their main remarks actually referred to their positions. Therefore, they are not very happy or feel that it is necessary to remove the provisions which, if the bankruptcy manager is under criminal procedure, are to be excluded from the procedure. Or this random choice by defending it with differences in the experience of bankruptcy managers, which is justified regardless of these two groups, because in some cases it may be problematic, some complex cases really need to choose someone who has a significantly greater experience in such procedures and is not enough that he will have a year or two specific experiences. While in some simpler but still on the other side of course and the logic of the proposer is present. In all, however, we feel that it is not particularly significant. The judges, of course, wondered again why Finna was here, why she still appeared as an actor. They were mostly as much as I noticed in these several discussions and what they were really stressing further the need to further strengthen the role of the Trade Court and judges. Lawyers who appeared in the debate again defended the positions of the creditors and debtors and were primarily interested in the part in which they were likely to be involved in the proceedings. What's important to me and what's leading me is that it's only really that this law is quality, that it's effective and that it takes a few years. So, if it is possible, at least in this part of the legislation, if we are passing one of these laws and we are adding to it these pre-fashion agreements to make some legislative solution that can last at least two, three years, and not that in six months, changes will come and add fifteen articles. Because practice will show that this article is wrong, that the article is not right, that that article is inconclusive, that it needs to be fixed and so on. So I would also invite you, given that it is visible that the debate was actually very scarce as it is scarce in the Croatian Parliament, that it is simply not in a hurry and that it is trying as much as possible to actually discuss this law until the second reading, and then see what to do with it further. When it comes to the objectives of the pre-fashion and bankruptcy process, it is obvious that, in fact, in Article 2 of the legislator, he clearly formulated the objectives of both the pre-fashion and bankruptcy proceedings. Therefore, as the objective of the pre-departure procedure, it has set out the actual maintenance of the activities of the debtor and the resolution of his relationship with the believer. As a result of the bankruptcy procedure, the bankruptcy procedure is clearly laid down for the purposes of the joint settlement of the creditor's creditor. Therefore, the bankruptcy procedure is and is defined in fact by law as a procedure which, for its purpose, does not maintain the activity of the debtors but merely settles the credentials. Is that the best definition? There are probably people who know it a lot better. I wish that the goals of all that we do towards these legal persons and companies would actually be if it is possible to maintain as many Croatian companies as possible and as many employees as possible, no matter how, in which way and according to what measures we do so. Also, this introduction of FINA as in Article 67, I think it is in Article 67, so as another party that can put forward a proposal to open a bankruptcy procedure and is required not to repeat now in what circumstances, but I have not seen anywhere what will happen if FINA does not do so. So, is it certain that there is a guarantee that if in the eyewitness... the basis for payments goes up to 120 days that some payment that FINA is going to launch bankruptcy proceedings has not been made? And what if Finna doesn't? So is there, what is the sanction, which provision, which is the control mechanism at the end of the act? That's the question to the proposer. In a public debate, some also said, given those claims that were strange, and now they are still spinning in various pre-determined settlements, they mentioned the idea that all payments were fiscalised and that there was simply no more payment, regardless of the form that they were made or later to appear without actually going through the fiscalisation system. It would remove all these strange situations that happened if someone came with a paper list and said here's someone paid me out of the tied company 20 million kuna, 50 million kuna, even though there were no clues or that that money existed or that this payment had ever been made. I don't know if it's technically possible but this sounds as interesting as the suggestion. And finally, at this point in time, as far as this proposal is concerned, we will remain abstention, and we will see how public debates are actually going to take place and, first of all, that the professional public who has so far not shown any particular enthusiasm as far as I could read according to this proposal will further analyze. Because this is not really a political issue, so when it comes to party issues, but first of all, to actually bring as high-quality solutions as possible in the interests of Croatian companies and jobs of people who work in them. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97008	Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97009	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm only going to point the replica at one part of the presentation of the esteemed colleague, and that's the part that concerns insufficient public debate. I couldn't agree with that. This law has been passed I would say a solid public debate. The result of this public debate is, and this is also the obligation of each proposing that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, you have contributed to the law and the report on the consultation with the public interest was held for 30 days and was conducted from 30 September to 30 October. In the public debate, according to the law of colleagues, the unions participated in the public debate, the HANFA participated, the Association of Banks of Banks participated, various bankruptcy managers participated. If you look at the report on the public debate, you will see that a whole series of remarks and suggestions have been accepted. For example, here is one, which refers to the cancellation of the labor contract. A union proposal has been accepted. And I can only say that if the media didn't think the bankruptcy law was important then, with all due respect, it can't be the Ministry and the Proposer's fault. The fact is that yesterday, the minister explained this law in detail, that today we are talking about it, that after the public debate was concluded for 2 months in the ministry, a final proposal was drawn up to look back at everything that was said and I continued to think as I had previously said that we had a good proposal and, with some minor improvements, it could become a great proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97010	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97011	Well, you have your own opinion and you know for yourself that 30 days is a deadline in which discussions are held and rules, and I don't think about doing that at all, specifically pollemizing. I simply think that the common goal would actually be for all of us to be good enough and effective enough to help Croatian companies in problems. Of course, the question is the goals we have in politics. In this case, I would not stand up as an opposition but I simply think that we must look for ways to get these things as far as possible done, and that those remarks by the interested public that have shown themselves, in the first part of the professional public, and there are different ones, if it is possible to install them simply with the aim of getting as high-quality law as possible. So, nothing more than for this law to be high enough, efficient enough, so that the tails are not dragged behind it and that the primary goal for me is to keep as many jobs as possible in the first row.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97012	On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97013	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the esteemed deputy minister with the co-worker. The bankruptcy is a word that is often heard in Croatia and is not pleasant to anyone to hear but it is what we are aware of, part of both business and life realities. Unfortunately, we use it a little more often than we'd like. She carried both traumas and job losses, often long-term job losses. For that reason, and for other reasons, the CNS supports the adoption of a new law, and I stress the adoption of a new law, and not again, I don't know which way to patch up and overrun the current law. In view of all those involved in these bankruptcy proceedings and pre-departures of course, given that the protection of creditors must be a fundamental principle which we stick to and in accordance with the general intention of this Government to introduce order and efficiency into the procedure and this proposal seems to be going in this direction primarily to increase efficiency as basic or one of the basic objectives of this law. As I said, unfortunately, in our case bankruptcy has often meant a path without returning to all those involved, and the idea that seems to us should be pursued by the European Commission in its recommendations is avoiding liquidation wherever restructuring and continuing business is possible. It is something that this law also respects and seriously seems to regulate us. One of the problems addressed by this proposal is the costs, certainly always the problem in all kinds of procedures of publishing information and documents on the Internet and releasing advances for the costs of the previous procedure under certain conditions will certainly help a little when we talk about the problem of costs. However, what seems much more important to us than that part is the problem of the length of the proceedings and in this respect we support the regulation of the obligation to end both the first-degree and the appeal procedure within 6 months for each. And I agree with the remark that I think fellow coat of arms might be able to do it a little tighter, we'll see how things develop to regulate. Also, of course, for a pre-fashion procedure for which 120 days are foreseen. Therefore, the procedures become an emergency court under official duty, which determines all the facts important for the procedure, and together by denying the possibility of launching the executive procedure and the procedure for ensuring different creditors after the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, we hope and believe that the problem of the longevity of the proceedings will become at least a little smaller, respecting, keeping in mind and agreeing with the remarks they have made before me and my colleague Linic and his colleague, Grbin, that it will not be possible to do so overnight. The problem of long-term proceedings is, of course, the problem of legal uncertainty that we as a state have in general embedded in our operation, not only in this sphere of bankruptcy, but in fact, the court wherever we bury and that is one of the key problems that we have to face and which is holding us back in growth and development. The second extremely important part of this proposal is, in our opinion, a clear definition of when and who can initiate the pre-fashion or bankruptcy procedure, so Articles 4 and 5. This proposal on pre-banking or bankruptcy reasons. By leaving the possibility if the creditors agree to come from the provisions on the cashing and distribution of bankruptcy through the bankruptcy plan. Similarly, what seems logical to us and what we support is the solution that the procedure for disproved the legal actions of the creditor would be allowed only if the funds for covering the foreseeable costs of the litigation process were previously provided. More important than that, another of those very important solutions to this law that touches the problem with which in bankruptcy procedures we have very often almost always faced is the allocation of the OIB to bankruptcy mass, which is what the deputy also spoke about by my predecessors, there is no reason to further elaborate. But it seems to me from that consultation report with the interested public that it is something that most participants support independently of their otherwise numerous differences in other comments and notes although their colleague Grbin said, but indeed we have received a full 40-page report on the debate in this proposal, and indeed our impression is also that there is no reason to object, however, the report we received is still, regardless of what is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure is not a fixed and common scratch of the motionor. Also visible and significant new solution is the selection of bankruptcy managers by means of a random selection method, and their division into A and B lists. And here's the proposaler's intention clearly, she praises her valuable step forward. However, it is good that the possibility remains open for this random choice to be changed, either by a court or by a congregation of creditors, because of course we know that the reality of practice brings various cases with different circumstances which may require and some specific qualifications, any experience, any characteristics that random choice will not necessarily be able to provide. While I repeat the proposal's intention is clear and the solutions as proposed are supported, this also shows from the public debate of this A and B lists will be the source of numerous criticisms and disagreements with the interested public, but we will see how this will be further developed. What is not quite clear to us is why, as a rule, and not as an exception, leaves a provision that the judge may continue to work when there is a request for his exemption, the more the decision on that request must be made within a maximum of three days. This is not new in this law, but the question remains in the air is that the most effective solution. And for a short while, when we talk about a pre-departure settlement, a significant change in that part is the confidence of the whole court procedure, except, of course, this fundamental change that the pre-departure settlement becomes part of the law and that it has indeed received both the formal right of advantage, even though it is not a mandatory part of the procedure and it should always be stressed. And lastly, the esteemed deputies are one technical remark that really is not essential, although it is not only about the system, it is not only about this law, it is not only about the laws that come from your ministry, it is about the whole way the administration works in the Republic of Croatia, but it seems to me that you and the minister in your ministry are particularly interested in establishing the modern system by which we operate, so it concerns article 10 on delivery. We are somehow both in the judiciary, so in the public administration, so in the state administration we cannot finally agree and decide that it is now 2015, and that it would be time to, as a technological base of all processes in the state, finally fully accept computers, the Internet, and that these Austrian methods with pigeons, writers, handwritten, written, archives, delivers of various kinds, we finally try to leave them in the routing of history. I stress this is not only an objection to this law, it is not an observation to your ministry, it is one general observation to the entire system of functioning, the technological functioning of the state. However, I repeat, it seems to me that your ministry has shown a special interest in establishing a modern system, and in that sense, perhaps that observation can be something that can begin with you. I repeat, the HNS will support this law in the right reading and we expect the second reading and the final proposal as soon as possible so that we can begin to implement the procedures both pre-fashion and bankruptcy under these new rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97014	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97015	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry, the esteemed few MPs. I didn't want to replicate to anyone even though I didn't agree with many of them because everyone has a right and obligation to express their opinion, and if we all feel the same way then we don't. But I've had one thing going on as I walk out here now, so I can't get to the good law. So when are we finally gonna make a really good law? But making a good law requires preconditions. The first prerequisite is time, the second prerequisite for participants, public debate and what is good in this bill of law two readings. But since the bankruptcy law has now included part of the law on financial responsibility and pre-profit settlement, I think that such a decision has been made too quickly and too quickly. The bankruptcy law is necessary, necessary and bankruptcy proceedings I said so and on the board are one big stain and a disgrace to the Croatian judiciary, so far. And I think that we could, that we could only go with the bill of bankruptcy, not including still part of the pre-demand settlements because there was really a lot of inexplicable, indeterminate, sick, and it was supposed to be well prepared for at least six months and then complement the bankruptcy bill with such well-prepared ones. I'm sure we'd find in two readings of the law only on bankruptcy, agree and vote unanimously on such a law. And I'm sure we might be able to change then if we were to prepare the predicate part well. But not what, regardless of what Linic, a colleague boasted and some still here about, pre-fashion settlements, I have quite the opposite opinion. Whenever it comes to pre-fashion settlements, it only comes from the position of debtors. And of course, from the position of the debtors and if I were a debtor, I'd praise it to heaven. But completely disregarded by the believers, boasted how many jobs were saved, how long the business of the debtors continued, but thousands and thousands of believers were ignored and what the fate of the believers was after the pre-determined proceedings. How many have failed, how many have closed their turns, how many have reduced their activity, fired people, much more than saved people in debt. 200 and some letters I got from the credentials saying they lost everything, and there's nothing I can do about it. "May 3" was saved but his debt of $400,000 and he owed 9% of the interest to pay VAT on that claim and then the claim of the state tells him you can't charge and he even paid all the taxes and contributions to all that. So I think that's where it comes not in whole but only from one angle and everything from one angle looks different. Pre-curricular settlements are also known in other countries, but something suggests that in 2 years 13 pre-profit agreements were conducted in Slovenia and in Croatia 2000. Nothing is brighter or more beautiful in the Slovenian economy than in Croatian, but obviously this information points to something. When I'm changing the law, I'm afraid it's a cover-up of what's happened so far in pre-fashion deals. Of course, several large ones, which have also led to such an initiative, are extremely pleased because it covered what was happening in these companies before the pre-fashion settlement. It was forgotten after the pre-fashion proceedings. But even in this bill, when it comes to the conditions leading to pre-fashion proceedings, there is no mention of a fall in activity, and the only fall in activity is objective and the reason for pre-fashion proceedings. The court is told when it will reject the proposal, but this Article 20 is an incentive to launch pre-fashion proceedings. We cannot open up space in the economy to deliberately stimulate non-payments in order to lead to a non-compromisation phase for creditors who will then initiate a pre-banking procedure. The causes of the conditions leading to the condition of the pre-determined debtor shall not be examined. How did a company get into pre-war? For what? Is it possible, we have cases in the economy of many, and I also have documentation where they were redecorating their own hotels and taking a commission, paying 30% of the performers more than they cost, and then even from the contractors in their own company, they would take the money, and later report it to a pre-demand settlement because they didn't pay the creditors. Someone bought planes, sailboats and cars and translated private property into company account, and then pushed the company into a pre-war deal and didn't pay the creditors. I don't think that's at all what's been taken care of. This law provides for a Commissioner. How superficially you can imagine that, it is said in this law that there are commissioners, court and FINA bodies, but the conditions which can be Commissioner, there are no conditions. Maybe through a student service we'll take someone for it. Is it possible? Maybe someone who doesn't have to be an adult, doesn't have to have a school at all, doesn't have to finish anything. And maybe I don't see it, I don't know. ... So no, I'm right. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't know why it's necessary to fix a tooth to go to a dentist. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why don't agronomists do it, why don't blacksmiths do it, why don't they do it, but running economics can do it to anyone in Croatia, there are no conditions. No waist, no calling, no respect for elemental waist. These kinds of jobs can only be run by a lawyer or an economist with a very, very great experience. He's neglectful, he's got no experience, he doesn't exist. You know, when you're 18, someone can put their nephew in. Maybe it doesn't have to be 18 because it doesn't say that either. That's how the laws are prepared. Of course, I don't mind when a colleague of the coat of arms says that a public debate has been conducted under the law. I respect, by law, but whether it was well spent, whether enough time was enough, whether they were all participants, so the law should be that as much together as possible of those interested and those who spend their time in practice and scientists and experts, that the more they hear remarks and remarks, the more it should be obvious about each, but there is no time in this way if we respect only legally. Of course, it is legal to publish an ad in the National Journal, but a very small number reads the National Journal, for example, if only legal regulations are to be respected. There is no possibility of refuting legal actions that have been harmful in the pre-departure procedure, obviously harmful and led to pre-fashion proceedings and cannot be disproved by legal action, which in bankruptcy itself can. And now you see that something has been deliberately or maliciously done, but you can't correct or have any right to correct it. Well, we shouldn't, and the bankruptcy law in two readings could be really high quality, but with such an unquality, yet unprepared bankruptcy part, it can't be accepted in two readings at all. FINA is included in the law as a body of procedure, and the website of FINA writes: although state-owned, FINA operates exclusively on the market principle. This is not a market principle. It is completely unclear why FINA is constantly pushed into court proceedings and given judicial powers. It is prescribed that a proposal for the opening of a pre-departure procedure is not allowed unless a period of 2 years has elapsed since the fulfilment of the obligations under the pre-determined procedure has been laid down. But since they had previously come from a pre-determined settlement procedure, then it means that debtors who did not respect them can again participate in the pre-departure procedure, which should not be. The debtor is forbidden to dispose of the property, but what if he is in possession despite being banned? No sanctions. At least a criminal offence should be prescribed for such matters. It's not prescribed that they're cellular acts, and that's the most common form of abuse, of cesium, and you can't kill a cell. And there's nothing more dangerous than that, and it's the most common form of abuse and bringing someone else into an unfavourable position. Mandatory insurance of bankruptcy managers is also required. Well, let's get insurance houses to make every law, and then in every law, it's an insurance obligation. So how are the MPs not insured? We may have to change that, too. I always recognize the writings of interest groups in the law, but always. Well, I could count here exactly the ten who were involved in it. Lists of bankruptcy managers, conditions for bankruptcy managers. I am not sure that given the model and what has become applicable in Croatian society that everyone is in a position to file criminal charges against everyone, that investigations are being opened lightly and charges are harder to press. I'm not sure if only the one against whom it was launched, but the investigation shouldn't be a bankruptcy manager. Maybe if there's already been an indictment, it's already a higher level. But just because an investigation was launched, then 20, 30 years would have no one to work with. It can take forever. I don't think that's the best-quality solution. And what is found to be no fault of this man? We took his right to work, and he's not guilty. Let's get to the bottom of how many investigations and how many charges there were and how many convictions there were, and we'll see how big that is. I think we're throwing ourselves away and excluding people in advance by declaring someone guilty. We shouldn't let that happen. I don't think gnawing at bankruptcy managers is the best solution. I think it's a better restriction that a bankruptcy manager can't run more than that many procedures. But there's a difference, there's a specialist, there's an activity quite different. So now we're gonna pull someone out of a hat who doesn't know anything about shipbuilding or who doesn't know anything about some other activity, and it's gonna be his first procedure. I don't see any reason for that. In fact, I see a mistake in that. I think it's so unresolved behind pre-determined deals, and I'm not prone to judging judges because they've seen some anti-constitutional provisions and because they don't respect them. I think more careful and more time should be devoted to pre-price settlements, and they should only be when it comes to the strategic national interest of the Republic of Croatia, and not without any criteria, or rather stimulates me to be able and fair and rewarding incompetent and unfair. That's not allowed, and I don't think we can support this bill at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97016	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97017	Well, a colleague in a lot of your debate has pointed to a whole series of irregularities that have happened so far, and in a good part I agree with you, especially when you point out that even today, the believers are the last holes in the play. However, when you criticize this law and begin the thesis, I do not feel good about the law. I think what my colleague Grbin was saying, not only did we have one broad discussion, but that this bill also goes into two readings and that all these valuable discussions that we heard that I certainly believe they had to, that they would be found in another reading. But here's the situation we had just a few years back as we solved the religious problem. So during Sanader's era, you had a situation where whoever was in good debt to the lender, the supplier of the state did not pay the obligation, remained in debt and allowed the worker to liquidate the company overnight and thus to all the creditors, suppliers, state, which is the most important thing for the workers and to start the next day according to the HITRO principle.HR new company. What do you even say about that? What do you tell these people? How do you provide citizens with such politicians? And what do you even say about that? The only thing that falls on me is the last sentence of the famous Ivan Goran Kovacic in Fiskal when he talks about one character, and then he has to say what, "the rust went further to find iron". These were the ones that allowed them to continue their business, and they were doing business on the same principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97018	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97019	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Anticevic, and I've pointed out, and that's one of the key reasons, and I see you agree. We're always talking about creditors, and we're always protecting debtors. And this law also goes in favor. Pre-fashion settlements have done so much damage. I've tried a little bit and refrained from any qualifications. But I don't want to say anything about pre-fashion deals. They made a wasteland in the Croatian economy. It's the biggest, most unfair law that ever came. I didn't happen to say I wouldn't vote for a law like that. And now we're so easy to include a pre-fashion deal in the bankruptcy law. In the long run, it was supposed to be together, but in such a short time, in no case at all. How one can go before bankruptcy without examining his personal property as the owner of society. Come on, please explain to me, you're also a lawyer. How is that possible? He's rich, and his company goes bankrupt, and he's not being questioned how he got his hands on that rich property. How much savings is there, how many shares is there, how much capital, how much real estate? He pulled everything out of the company and now he's going into a pre-fashion deal. He had a profit in the previous year of a million kuna, in another 100 million, and in the next he went into a pre-war settlement. I have a case like that you want me to show you? Is that normal? It's not normal! And now this is what we're legalizing to forget what happened and now we're going to re-implement it in the bankruptcy law under the exception we need the bankruptcy law. I praise the law of bankruptcy but I can't accept this first part, not at all, and that's why I'm against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97020	Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97021	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's colleague Maric, and you've finished your presentation, and now the answer to this replica is just by attacking a pre-warrant settlement. And because of what you're saying right now, I've started my presentation and I've started quoting the famous Chapter 11 of the American Banking Act. Because it's just a pre-fashion deal, or a pre-fashion procedure for what's in the U.S. under Chapter 11. You must know the bankruptcy settlement is no longer mandatory, there is no obligation, or pre-departure pardon procedure, it is voluntary and it will not be implemented unless it is agreed upon by whom? The Prophet. And if the believers do not wish for such a procedure, there will be no way of resolving the debt of the debtor. Of course, under the terms of the law. Now, you say it lightly and quickly. On February 24th last year, a meeting of the Anti-Corruption Council was held at which we discussed pre-departure deals. And by then, it was said that this form of pre-demand settlements was a temporary form and that the goal was, and already at that time, to get pre-departure settlements into bankruptcy proceedings, to find their place where they should be. The 30th of September when the public debate began, so the law didn't work for a week for someone with a document like this to come out and present it to the public. Finally, the law should read the article by article and then read that Article 24 states that the assumptions for the appointment of commissioners are the same as the assumptions for the appointment of a bankruptcy manager. Article 42, Article 43, shall specify in detail what the assumptions are. These must be graduate lawyers, economists, etc., they must have all these conditions for being on the list.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97022	Thank you very much. Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97023	I've read the whole law, and I've seen that part where it says, and here I've underlined that it's true for the Commissioner of Presumptions as well as for the bankruptcy manager. But these aren't the conditions for appointments. Because there, you can interpret yourself, forgive me if you state the conditions for one and the conditions for another. And besides, it's not good that they're the same conditions, at all. But you can't interpret it that way. I don't know, I can't, I don't know which other lawyers I'd find to interpret as well as you do. As for the comparison of the US economy and Croatia, you know if someone in a civilized country had so much personal wealth and owed it to everyone in Croatia it is impossible. In Western countries, it's not about non-payment, not at all. There's a pre-demand settlement if the entity loses its importance at economic activity, right now, so there's a chance it'll restore that economic activity. But not because he took someone's money from the firm and won't pay someone. Not because he didn't pay his contributions because he can't happen not to pay his contributions and taxes, not like that. And here we can't even question the reason why someone went into a pre-determined settlement, you forbid it by law. There's no prerogative for anyone who can't enter a pre-determined settlement. Why don't you tell me one condition? Who can't? No one shall be allowed unless they submit a request within the time limit. So that's a condition, please! Who can't? Who cheated, who was convicted, who pulled the money, who made up a fake cell, who's got false reports, and we can't even kill a cell here if it's proven to be a fake cell. And it's with itself that... And now you're saying it's a great law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to where you announced in the public debate, where was this law published? Tell me. On an ad board at the ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97024	Thank you, dear fellow, for your time. We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97025	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So the bankruptcy of a particular legal person is often in the legal and business world the inevitableness that we must face sometimes. Although the bankruptcy is mainly associated with negative connotations, it does not necessarily have to be so. The bankruptcy does not have to end with the liquidation of a legal person, but it is what I think is the basic intensities and this law was also the law that previously regulated the pre-fashion settlement was the urgency that a certain business entity was restructured, that I should start by saying that in a fresh beginning, and in this sense it could mean preserving jobs in production. However, even when the bankruptcy ends in liquidation, it is clear that the conduct of the bankruptcy procedure is necessary and that the procedure must be as effective as possible and in the event that the continuation of the operation is not possible and the speed and efficiency of the conduct of the procedure is at that time important. This is of course, so that as soon as possible, the believers will settle their business relations so that participants in this business relationship can start over as soon as possible. The intensity to avoid liquidation, to avoid the sale of assets and the termination of the activity of a particular business entity is visible from the idea of a pre-fashion settlement. In this proposal, some perceived shortcomings and justifiable criticisms that have arisen in my opinion were even very difficult to predict at the time of adoption, which is why we have supported all together the previous adoption of this law, and I think that the shortcomings have now been seen correcting and I think that we should certainly welcome it. However, it should be welcomed that the concept remains at the same time as an instrument that should allow for continued business, avoiding bankruptcy and ultimately avoiding the liquidation of a business entity that has a chance of continuing business. This bill introduces several newspapers which, in my view, will mean acceleration and greater efficiency and the bankruptcy process itself. However, it seems to me that I have actually come forward for this debate in order to achieve greater acceleration and protection of the rights of participants in the process by further applying the principle of e-government in the prescribed procedure. For several places in the law, public announcements are prescribed on the website of the e-produced court board. That is a good solution, but I believe that better information from participants in the particularly debtor procedure could be achieved by an additional obligation that court letters should be delivered to known officials at their e-mail address if they have it and if it is known to the court. So, for example. in Article 10(2), I would suggest that it be provided in writing to the debtor or to another person who is established in the register and to the electronic address of that person, if known to the court. For example, Article 11(1) states that court letters are to be delivered alongside the published website to known debtors to their electronic addresses if they are known. The objective of greater efficiency and speed of the procedure, I believe, would be to contribute to the provision of any place where the seat and business address are requested to indicate that the request and address of the e-mail is to be requested. For example. in Article 17(1), the proposal to close the pre-departure procedure must contain an e-mail address of the debtor if there is one,... the financial situation reports and the business of the debtor must also contain the e-mail address of the creditor, if any, etc., etc. I think that in the previous debate in the club there has also been in principle supporting this principle of introducing e-government into several segments and in this law. And I suggest it so that all written and notices can be delivered as soon and as efficiently as possible. In this regard, Article 22 states that creditors shall be informed by ad. However, if the believer has dozens or hundreds of debtors, this notification to the believers in practice can be a significant failure. The believer must then invest a considerable amount of energy and time to check whether each individual believer has a specific day of need to check for each believer whether he enters a pre-determined settlement. That is why I think it would be extremely useful to determine that the opening of a pre-determination procedure is to send the credentials a notice to the e-mail address if it is known. The introduction of this obligation to deliver letters and notifications by electronic means should not in any way be linked to the start of the course of certain procedural deadlines but I find it quite justified for the reasons I have stated. This practice should be easily introduced into all procedures, and this law provides an extraordinary opportunity to begin with. I would also refer to Article 203 relating to the cashing of the property of ships and aircraft. According to paragraph 6, the minimum selling price is reduced by 20% of the previous value at the previous hearing and can then finally be sold by 1 kuna. Such a solution was also timely in the executive law, and I think it gave up not being the best. In this way, the believers do not settle their claims, and I am afraid that they can benefit from speculative mixing with real estate. It seems to me, however, that the price should be limited, for example. up to a third of the estimated value. I also believe that the solutions of the current Implementing Law should be applied as much as possible, let's say, on the electronic auction. The topic that has now opened here in the debate is also the responsibility of natural persons for the business of their... company. The fact is that, often in conversation with entrepreneurs, the subject is that natural persons often abuse the fact that they are not eligible as such for the liabilities of a company of capital in which they have shares or in which they are shareholders. The fact is, there's a crime in the Penal Code for causing bankruptcy, but I really don't know if I haven't heard in practice if there's ever been a procedure in place. That should be checked, and I didn't find that exact information in the means of public communication. In any case, there is obviously one large dark figure and I think that certainly the relevant competent authorities of the rule of law should pay greater attention there because it is indeed the fact that many entrepreneurs are operating through a particular company, benefiting from profit, and then, after some time, driving the company into bankruptcy and then closing the obligations again, the company is going into liquidation, and they are restarting the new company. I'm afraid there's a big secret number here and it's certain that there's a process and a greater initiative of certain bodies, especially the persecution bodies, is necessary. I may not even know that it is an obligation to further promote any bankruptcy from a particular competent authority or at least to establish the practice that there is an obligation at least some selective better checking of any bankruptcy caused and any liquidation of the company, whether there have been certain abuses and that legitimate objections to the public are thus respected. Finally, I would say that this law should also be supported and that it brings about an improvement in the solutions to date regarding the pre-demand settlement and the bankruptcy law itself, and I hope that the proposals for further improvement will be considered and accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97026	My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97027	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The average man when mentioned, when the Croatian man mentions privatisation and bankruptcy, hair rises on his head. For what? Because it mostly has negative experiences from such processes. I will begin my debate with perhaps an illustrative example and the consequences of which, even in Croatian, much smaller examples of obvious injustices and the entire global system or of what we in our micro-centre can and should react in our country. And I can at first say that this proposal of the bankruptcy law that goes into the first reading is a good basis to listen to everything that has been said and to make an additional effort to fit in and some new mechanisms that colleagues have talked about on the other hand because there are good examples of these injustices because it is something that citizens feel like an injustice. Namely, Lim and Brothers was founded about 160 years ago as an icon of the American banking system, almost overnight bankrupted and challenged and brought along a flood of financial institutions and earthquakes felt globally. Analysis has shown that there may be one of the analyses that the management was greedy, that it asked exactly to be done as long as possible to get bonuses. However, many have concluded that as long as the directors possess gold parachutes and until the debt management meets their assets, this whole process will not have, or we will constantly resolve the consequences but not the causes. Just like what he's asking? This requires the amendment of the Law on Commercial Companies, which is also related to the European laws that we had to adapt our laws to. Our draft law here in the opening section states how many across Europe over 200 thousand legal entities face indifference especially in terms of crisis every year. What does this bill bring? First of all, one big new one to run and run ex off, to be seen in such a single subject. such a subject who is contagious and who needs to be treated or buried as soon as possible because he will infect everyone else and needs to be quarantined. So the whole bankruptcy procedure has to be understood exactly like that. Outside is an unimaginable failure of bankruptcy, what he was just talking about and or the cause of bankruptcy where no reason is questioned at all, which is a crime and non-reportation of bankruptcy there we have a large black number. It's something that's thought to be, it still doesn't cause social condemnation and it is a crime. So what is expected and what is the greatest virtue of this bill to speed up this process and not only to speed up the bankruptcy process, but often the bankruptcy lasted not only because of the bankruptcy process itself, but because of a whole series of procedures of other natural and litigation procedures that came out of it, the performances, now all these procedures are speeding up. And that's guaranteed that the bankruptcy procedure will be quick. However, the question remains, how many, both the quality and the bankruptcy managers are mentioned here. However, a really logical question arises, if a single entity, even a reputable entity with a large number of employees, with perhaps a well-reputed and management, gets in trouble that, what are these abilities and whether we have such people who can and can take such a company on the right track, or often said bankruptcy does not have to be and liquidation can occur. But who are these people who are going to do it? We in Croatia not to propagate here, there are several famous but there have been a number of qualified lawyers, economists who have taken certain companies on the right path, which were almost in front of bankruptcy but who are now doing a great job. But they can count on the fingers of one hand. It's critical of bankruptcy, pre-banking deals, I think it's this way, so where they're put before court jurisdiction, all that sodium kind of eliminates. But we must not forget what happened a few years ago, no one knew about any settlements, they were happening under the table where certain companies were forgiven by millions and millions of debts, for which Croatia does not know until the day of today, and I am here now not going to state that information. And no one talked about it. However, the remarks, particularly fellow Maric, and this should be seriously considered, he warns, a great expert in this area, Professor Dika, on the Committee on Justice, warned. One please America, a capitalist country from the very beginning, no bankruptcy proceedings run without a federal office without a federal bankruptcy commissioner. And it's something that no matter how much someone says you start another new body and this, it's necessary. It's there in America, it's an integral part, the department is one, one section in the Justice Department. Where it would be in Croatia, but it is necessary for Croatia, where it would now be questioned, they have such one commissioner who monitors what is happening in the process of such bankruptcy, i.e. bankruptcy, but also examines what led to bankruptcy because it takes great care of the believers, whether they are states, creditors or workers, which is most important. And you know who's in that band? The U.S. Attorney General with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and any such procedure is conducted under their eye, watchful eye, to see if this is where the fraud occurred, what you fellow Maric was talking about. So how long are we going to talk about where someone consciously destroys the company at the expense of the workers and as if nothing happened, that they can't even question that store. They can be questioned in our system, but they're circumstantial. There are no indirects here, here directly involved precisely the highest investigative bodies, in the most banal bankruptcy, or small companies, and let alone those, and so did this case of Lim & Brothers bank, but others who have shaken not only America, Europe, but almost the whole world. And that's something people see and we don't give the right answers. There's no need, we've established a whole series of agencies and it's right and it's a cost that would justify this kind of trouble not happening. The very message itself would send a message to the establishment of such an institution that the state is taking care of all the believers, that it cannot be done in such a way that the state, the faith, the workers, and that someone you tell your colleague, Maric, in private life has aircraft, submarines, vessels, and I don't know what else. And that's what people see and say so how, it can't understand. Well it's not... so make such a law, so others have. We don't invent hot water. Therefore, there is time to think about it, I say one of the greatest authorities in this area is talking about it, for Croatian occasions it would certainly be part of the state's attorneyship of people and tax collectors who would only do so. And if you see, the preventive effect would be extraordinary. When we introduced a penalty act in 2003 of non-payment of salaries, the very announcements from 6 months 2003 until the law passed 60% decreased the percentage of people who did not receive salaries during that period. Let's show that we're really serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97028	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97029	Thank you very much. My colleague Antičević, you have rightly added some things and it inspired me to say. When the state writes down and predicts to write off 7 billion euros without any state institution checking what preceded it, it is puzzling, not scandalous. That's confusing. I'm ashamed of society like that. In Germany and Austria or another country, it wouldn't have occurred to anyone to forgive anyone for 100 euros if they didn't check why he did it, not 7 billion. We've already forgiven 20 billion kunas in the name of the state and where it's left. As it is possible that the company is in charge of 3 billion kuna from banks, for example, did not pay the salaries, did not pay the suppliers, there is no money in the account, and went into a pre-war settlement. You're talking about agreements... ma'am, I'm afraid that a few big ones agreed long before the law came into force because it shows who started this... and how they ended up, to the detriment of many honest ones who were in charge of the bank, the interest was paid because they couldn't be dishonest, they paid their commitments to each and privately borrowed money in their own... so that they wouldn't remain in debt to anyone, and then the hohstapplers stayed with them and then forced them to do it. So I said that it was necessary to separate this law still and well prepare this second part, that there couldn't be 2,000 pre-fashion deals, it can't be, it doesn't matter if it's 2,000 pre-fashion deals. Something in society is rotten, something smells bad, and we can't legally frame something that's wrong. And that's why I'm glad that you agree with this part, but it would be very easy to agree with the bankruptcy law because it could be arranged and voted together in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97030	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97031	Well, I'm not the lawyer here for all these bankruptcy deals that happened. So they wanted to save what was to be saved. As it was carried out, it caused a lot of doubt, and there were certain and clean things that no one has objected to. But I want to warn you, and now you're throwing all your doubts at those pre-war deals. It is good that the whole thing will come under trial, but while you are criticizing it then you must remember the period when there was no pre-demand settlement at all, when people or owners of certain companies, some are abroad, some are also convicted, some continue to operate through others, thirds and so, where the public of Croatia knew nothing about it. It was a business secret, that's what you called it. Do you have any words for that? So you don't have to be overly dramatic about one thing, about some of you have some kind of something that's spreading your breath, when we have things that have rotted and what the consequences have taken so much at firsthand in such a way to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97032	And the final word of Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97033	Thank you very much. Well, here's the final, and I'm glad we can determine that the inclusion of the pre-determination procedure in the bankruptcy law has been affirmably adopted in this House. There have been talks about an unimplemented enough previous debate and this is also disputed by part of the honourable MPs. I can only point out a very important fact for us. So, we formed a working group for the construction of the bankruptcy law in November 2013 and since then, this working group has worked intensively to develop proposals for this law from 20 members of different professional profiles from trade unions to banks. We have tried to balance the interests of all groups as you have stated, and I think at least for the first reading we have agreed on a very good proposal for a bankruptcy law. Besides, we also held round tables. The law has been on our website longer than, or longer than, a month, 45 days exactly. Passed the commission in front of GSV. So we certainly gave him the opportunity to discuss it as well as here. But unfortunately, it's not as full an auditorium as you'd like. There have been talks about it, i.e. just here I would like to point out that the interested public in this law is even internationally extended. In fact, we have respected the recommendations made by the European Commission in terms of determining the concepts and conditions for insolvency in our system, and in general within the framework of the European Semester, we have been particularly involved in the concept of the bankruptcy law. There was talk of a fee. And otherwise, the law is so complex that the religious rights of this law are much more protected than they were before. The believer will pay the fee only in the extreme case, but in that case it will return to him because we have established a mechanism with the FINA in case of a blocked debtor, in the sense that the first funds that come in are then exempted for the fee paid by the believer. Also, there is no charge in the event of bankruptcy under official duty. There's been a speech on the insurance of bankruptcy managers. I want to make a special note of this. Insurance is certainly not introduced into the Banking Act, i.e. the obligation of bankruptcy managers to protect the interests of insurance undertakings certainly not. What was primarily the objective here and interest is to protect the rights of workers, i.e. the protection of those involved in bankruptcy proceedings, and can be damaged because of the irregular or illegal work of the bankruptcy manager. They have the right to be compensated, have the right to guarantee that they will be compensated through insurance. So the first and primary interest here is the interest of those who are actually in these procedures the weakest, and we want to strengthen them by many legal provisions, even this one. So, protection of workers' rights. It's a minimum that we can secure within this framework. We were talking about assigning the subject to an algorithm. They're not just assigned to bankruptcy managers by algorithm, they're assigned to judges. There was talk that if an exemption was requested, it could be continued by a bankruptcy judge. This is one general general procedural provision of the Law on the Procedural Procedure, and it applies here and all in order to avoid harm. We deliver especially in these items we generally intend to perform via an e-mail board, and the exception was to establish only for those who do not have access to the advertising board. We were talking about terms for the commissioners. We've called and these are the same conditions as the conditions for a bankruptcy manager. That's what I said in detail. If there is a reason for the provision of Article 24(2) to fix this further in the sense of understanding of this, of course there is a space for it. It is also prescribed to apply the provisions on insolvency proceedings in relation to the pre-banking process. In particular, in Article 33(5), we have prescribed the possibility of refuting a settlement, and there have been rumors that such a possibility does not exist, and I refer to the provision of Article 33(5). And it's just final. So, algorithmic assignments can change instead of what the algorithm has assigned, both creditors and judges can, but their request must be reasoned. If there are reasons to initiate any criminal proceedings, then that determines the Company Act. The company law contains criminal provisions relating to business and insolvency proceedings in this context. So these provisions are not and will not be subject to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97034	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97035	Thank you very much. Dear Deputys, you said you were glad that the affirmative arrangement of pre-departure settlements was accepted in the Banking Act. That's not true at all. I spoke aphimically with additions to the bankruptcy part of the law, the bankruptcy that relates to bankruptcy, and quite the contrary to the pre-demand settlement and said that it was hastily and executed that some of the pre-departure proceedings were now in place in this bankruptcy law. Exactly the opposite of what you claimed we spoke affirmatively. A pretense settlement she must and should be an exception, only an exception. This exception must be explained in detail, it must be of strategic interest why something goes into a pre-fashion settlement, a strategic, national interest must be an investigation that precedes the approval of the pre-fashion. Who's going to do the investigation? Some financial police, some DORH, don't matter. Someone's got to do an investigation before that. It's inadmissible to go into a pre-fashion deal... the dismissal of debts and on behalf of the state, so that no one investigates the reasons for which a legal entity has come into a state of indifference. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's devastating! That's scary! That you're not interested in why someone's inexplicable. On purpose, on purpose, or on someone else's behalf. Well, maybe he won't pay himself. Maybe he overpaid himself to run through his overseas company all the goods and pay it 40% more. And he's in a state of indifference. And you're not investigating it, you're not interested in it, and you say we're going to a pre-war deal. I can't believe it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97036	Replica reply, Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97037	Thank you very much. I'll apologize to you if I misread you, but what I realized from the debate is that there is an affirmative approach to the provisions of the pre-fashion settlement process involving the bankruptcy law and that the proceedings are conducted by the court. What is the content of these provisions, of course, that it may be the subject of discussion especially until the second reading, however, in that sense I have your obvious and understood. And regarding the verification of the balance of debtors and its assets, this law has no special financial effect, and what is proposed requires much more preparation and, of course, much more resources and at this point we are not able to realise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97038	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. We will continue our colleagues and colleagues tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for a law supplementing the Consumer Credit Act. Thank you very much and good night!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-21-0.u97039	Proposal of the bankruptcy law, first reading, P.Z. No. 777. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. A proposal for the Banking Act 2 is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 77 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 16 against the proposed conclusion. This ended today's vote on the points of the agenda. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue at the plenary session of the 16th session of the Croatian Parliament. I already see my hands in the air, usually for the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
