ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106264	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm not looking for a break. I have a question for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106265	For me personally?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106266	Yeah. When can I, as a proponent, get a conclusion that has been voted on on the 8th of May with the refusal of the Law on Extra charge for children?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106267	If it's signed immediately. It's a public matter. You were there and you voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106268	But I also got the answer to wait for you to get back out of the way last week. On Wednesday, you returned from the road, however, there is still no answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106269	Who you get from when we talk like this. Please submit a request... All that you ask for is what is voiced. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] So you're going to get the conclusion and what I'm going to do now is I'm going to study to you from here on out. You'll get the conclusion according to your request if you didn't get it. Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106270	Your Honor, Mr. President, the government should be hiring 1875 civil servants soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106271	What are you looking for, colleague Cain?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106272	On behalf of the club for 5 or 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106273	About the darkness?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106274	On the subject of hiring 1875 civil servants in order to keep everything in line with the laws, so that these processes are controlled so as not to alienate, please pause from 5 or 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106275	Okay. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106276	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Since it's about seeking a break for the HDSSB club, I'm just saying it's the last suicide of a police officer at the Slavonski Brod Police Administration, which is the fifth suicide in the last five years at the Slavonski Brod Police Administration. Given the situation, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to put some things behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106277	What did you call the subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106278	The situation in the Slavonski Brod Police Administration and the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia, given that Mr. Tonkovic would not be a bad listener here.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106279	Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106280	The agony of the Immunological Institute continues, and I would beg for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106281	Immunologically?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106282	Immunologically.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106283	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106284	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a break about the Immunological Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106285	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106286	Same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106287	So, a press conference of club representatives for the next half hour, first we'll give a break. It's till 9.45. Thank you very much. We'll continue at 9.45. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Dear Representative Damir Cain, employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106289	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. No one here speaks or is not our press conference, but simply using business opportunities we are talking about the current political problems for which we do not otherwise have the opportunity to speak in the Republic of Croatia. So I want to say something about the announced hiring of new 1875 civil servants. Someone will say that a large part of these people will, as I say, be retired and that the bodies will be filled, however, the fundamental question is if someone sets someone up a job as much as they must, where, who, the real sector, that you, or that we would still have a salary. We can all agree or disagree, but I assure you that today's most privileged job is in the upgrade. Small craftsmen are even in a difficult situation than the workers who work with them. Croatia stagnates, among other things, because of corruption, because of nepotism, this artificial division encouraged by the media, the PR, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. parades, deals, etc... There were 7 European Union countries behind the standard six years ago, today only 2. Why? There was a "Hold the Water" policy until the masters left. And then you're really a man asking a question about what's waiting for us in due course. It is now announced that these 1875 new employees will be employed. Yesterday you had a chance to follow the situation in Tessu, if the Oilman wants to take it I don't see where the problem is, TESU was a modern part of the Oilies, so be it again. They can work for the Hungarians, for the Russians, for the Oilman, I don't know who. And the Oil Group has full overpasses until at least 2018. Their bigger problem will be how to get to the workers than how to arrange a new ship. And I don't understand these DUDI decisions. 1875 new officials ahead of the election that's about 8,000 votes, but that's another thing. For 2000 new employees should be employed if the base of pay in the public sector is 5108 kuna and 84 June 16 thousand 830 workers. That's not what I calculated, that's what one newspaper in the Republic of Croatia calculated. It means that through tax income there could be so many people. On the moon means you need to secure 10 million kunas. During the year 120 million kuna. With contributions it is certainly closer to the 200 million kuna than 190 million kuna. After each election, between 5,000 and 10,000 new people are employed. It should already begin to think that the state is rationalising, that agencies, ministries, municipalities, counties, municipal services are being abolished, or that in 3.4 years, we will be as some write Greece. One minister promised a job to a party leader or member. It's a common practice. Mr. Sabo by the justice of God, I'll say, is in prison. Who doesn't? Well, that's just what everybody does. And that is one of the reasons and stagnation and Istria and what I know about whom not all Croatia. Would these workers I mentioned from TESU work in the upgrade? They'd certainly be working because I said the most privileged job right in the upgrade. The minister said we'll hire 150 judicial officers and that'll be ours. He shouldn't have said anything. That's understood in this country. And you know the difference between, I don't know, socialist darkness and this light today? It was known there, at least that's what I think after '71. The year that the judge, the minister, I don't know, the water manager, the chief of police and territorial defense must be from the party. But today no one in any utility gets that trimmer to cut the grass unless he's a member of the party. It's so in Istria, I'd be so surprised if it wasn't elsewhere. Why is he planning to get a job and not redistribute 1875 people? Maybe they should be hired by 50 judicial officers where, down in Pula because they break into DORH buildings and falsify documents, exempt documents from the file, but no matter what, I think there is room to simply redistribute these people in the Republic of Croatia rather than additional employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u106290	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Commissioner Damir Cain. It is not true that you do not have the opportunity to talk about the topics you want because you are at your disposal in the Assembly, there are journalists and you can schedule a press conference for free every day in the Croatian Parliament. And what all MPs are using now is that you are making observers because the Rules of Procedure cannot open a debate on your views. That's why I'm telling you this the way I say it. ... Of course, the same goes for others, but you've complained that you can't talk about topics in the House, so I invite you to call a press conference, to the press, to make your point, and then that's the legitimate point of view of your club and like this... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, and we can't open a debate like this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We can't open the debate because it's not meant to be. [[Intruder Cain: I can't talk about Istria.]] Thank you very much. And now we will go to the established agenda and open: - Final proposal of the Law on the ID card, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.835. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on this final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Internal Policy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Deputy Minister of the Interior Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110645	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, in the Republic of Croatia ID cards in card format began to be issued on 1 January 2003. After that period of 10 years and IDs regarding their protective properties and visual identity no longer fully met the latest standards of protection. That is why, half of the amendments to the ID Act were adopted in 2013 and a new redesigned identity card containing the personal identification number of the identity card holders began to be issued in the Republic of Croatia since 10.6.2013. The identity card to be issued from that date has also been prepared for the subsequent installation of the electronic chip data carrier. Thus, the introduction of a redesigned ID card with improved protection elements and a personal identification number of ID holders represented the first stage in the process of introducing an electronic identity card into the Republic of Croatia. In order to encourage the development of the information society, and the development of the information system of the state administration, the provision of user-oriented electronic public services, and to encourage active participation in the use and development of electronic services, all users, citizens and economic operators have been launched a project to introduce electronic identity cards for Croatian citizens. The introduction of an electronic ID card is expected to foster the development of public services and to enable the electronic operation of economic operators and the electronic communication of economic operators with the authorities of the state administration to facilitate and accelerate the launch of economic activities. The introduction of an electronic identity card and will facilitate communication with the authorities of the state administration and local self-government without the need to enter the competent institutions in order to exercise individual rights. So far, there are a small number of public services that could be accessed using an electronic identity card such as the E-Citizen system, but their accelerated development is expected after the introduction of an electronic identity card. Institutions that develop public services will have to adapt them for use using an electronic ID card and will not have to invest in their cards and in a system that controls these cards, but will access their services via an electronic identity card. For example, various electronic services in the field of health, education and the like. In the framework of the project, the introduction of an electronic identity card has also been prepared by the Personal Card Act with this final proposal for a law whose adoption is proposed under the urgent procedure in accordance with the provisions of Article 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The adoption of an emergency law is proposed in order to ensure that the project introduces electronic identity cards for Croatian citizens as soon as possible and thus speed up and facilitate the above mentioned activities, and that Croatian citizens who, because of their failure to fulfil certain obligations and the Law on residence, are left without residence in the Republic of Croatia and thus without their ID cards as soon as possible as possible, are provided for in this law to issue their identity cards to all Croatian citizens, whether they have or do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for this law is a normative basis for the introduction of electronic identity cards for Croatian citizens. The identity card to be issued to Croatian citizens under this law will be an electronic and public ID, and its holder will prove its identity, Croatian citizenship, sex, date of birth and residence in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the provisions of this law, the tasks of issuing IDs will also have to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the electronic signature and implementing rules adopted under that law, and an internal act on the procedure of certification by the certification provider. The most important changes he would try to make in the light of the current law are, the ID card will be a mandatory ID for Croatian citizens over the age of 18 with a registered residence in the Republic of Croatia. Croatian citizens resident in the Republic of Croatia, and under 18 years of age, will not have to have a ID card, but will be able to rule it out by means of their parents as legal advocates because they will be able to confirm their identity in various procedures related to primary, secondary education, and will be able to serve as a travel document to cross EU and other countries that allow it. Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of their years of life, will not have to have their ID card, but will be able to come out if they want to. Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia will be entered in the ID card for their residence abroad. According to data on residence printed in a public document issued by the competent authority of the state in which they have registered residence or approved residence and that category of Croatian citizens is the Croatian identity card will not serve as proof of their residence. The identity card will contain the electronic data carrier chip, on which the data printed in the visual area of the ID card will be stored, and one or two certificates can be stored on the chip and the identification and signature certificate. The identification certificate will be used to ensure the electronic confirmation of the identity of the person to whom the identity card has been issued and the authentication for access to electronic services. Therefore, the owner will be able to use public services without personal access to an institution but will be able to identify the computer and the card reader by electronic means using the identification certificate on the personal card chip itself. The signature certificate will be used to support that electronic signature, which will be signed by an electronic document drawn up on the computer and whose transfer and delivery to the address is made by electronic means, and the advanced electronic signature shall be fully replaced by the power signature or stamp and signature of the authorised person. Therefore, institutions that use electronically signed acts will develop applications that will produce the text of an act and the digital signatures of all signatories, and will access applications via an electronic identity card. The period of validity of the identity cards and certificates to be contained will be five years, except for the identity cards issued to persons aged 65 who will be issued without a period of validity. The reason is that the certificates stored on the identity card are not issued in the longer term because the power of today's cryptographic algorithms is sufficient only for the next five years. Certificates shall not be renewed after the expiry of the certificate on the same card because the warranty period for the chip containing the card cannot be longer than five years at the moment. This is the practice of other EU Member States, such as Finland, Portugal, Lithuania, Latvia, to issue their identity cards with a five-year period of validity. The identity cards issued to grandfathers by the age of five will not contain certificates, while the identity certificates issued to children from the age of five to the age of 18 will contain an identification certificate enabling them to have electronic identity in various educational procedures. Personal identity cards issued to persons from 18 to 65 years of age will contain both identification and signature certificates. People aged 65 will be able to obtain their own ID card with or without certificates. So it's just the card that's being betrayed right now. Persons from 65 years of age who come up with an identity card containing certificates over the period of validity of a certificate valid for five years and cannot be renewed will be able to continue using that identity card, he may continue to use it as a standard card to confirm his identity since it has been issued without a period of validity. But it will not then be able to perform electronic confirmation of its identity, nor will it then be able to use it to produce an advanced electronic signature. Persons over the age of 65 who have already come up with an identity card that is valid shall not have to come up with a new card unless they wish to have an electronic identity card. I'd like to point that out one more time so there won't be any confusion. The identity card will be issued by police administrations or police stations of the Ministry of Home Affairs, locally responsible for the residence of applicants. A person with a registered residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia will also have a registered residence request for the issuing of his identity card to be able to submit to the police administration, or to the police station locally competent according to his place of residence. Exceptionally, in exceptional circumstances, conditioned natural or other disasters or in other exceptional situations, a person will be able to apply for a personal identity card and a police department, or a police station that is not locally competent to its place of residence or residence. The police department, or police station, shall issue a ID card no later than 30 days from the date of submission of the request if the application for the issuing of the ID card is submitted in a regular procedure. Where an application for an identity card is submitted in an accelerated procedure, the police department, or the police station, is obliged to draw up a ID card within 10 days of the date of submission of the application and if the request is submitted in an urgent procedure, the police administration is obliged to issue a ID card within 3 working days of the day of the application. In the case of the first issue of an identity card containing certificates, the person will be obliged to register on the electronic identity card portal established by the certification service provider. By using the registration data that will be obtained by downloading the identity card issued and by informing yourself of how to use the identity card. The person will be obliged to activate the electronic part of the identity card by using the activation data they will receive when they download their identity card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110646	Thank you, too, Deputy Minister of the Interior. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Assembly want? And if you'll excuse me, I'm sorry, we're going to have to present the Deputy Minister, and we're going to have an opening statement, and then we're going to do the replicas. Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110647	Thank you very much. Namely, Mr. Tonkovic, I took my own I.D. that's worth up to 2022. Article 4 turns out to be a step backwards and to cut the deadline to 5 years. If the chip can't last 10 years, then you're looking for another chip. After all the expenses that our fellow citizens have, we still need to charge the cost of IDs every little bit. Therefore, if most European Union countries have a 10-year deadline, we insist in the HDSSB club that it is also in Croatia and not that we compare ourselves to one Lithuania. Please explain if it is a chip, it is not good for the Croatian people, we are going backwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110648	Deputy Minister, would you like to respond? Yeah. Replica reply, Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110649	Your Honor, counsel, technically, it's still a problem. Only a few countries in the European Union are at 10 years old, it is a complex technical issue, it is very complex and requires large material resources. This is the most optimistic solution right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110650	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110651	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Tonkovic, I still don't see any reason for this law to be passed by an emergency procedure. And I'll remind you in 2014 we were in the Croatian Parliament when we were discussing the Law on residence just talking about these things, and then, according to your data, the MUP actually checked out 257 thousand 231 persons and now this new law actually allows all Croatian citizens, regardless of their residence, to have a personal identity card which is good. But when we talk about not entering the technical details of what you were talking about and about a cryptographic decryption, or control chip, you need to know that today in the world and also in the European Union are mostly using biometric I.D. cards and residence permits, I don't know the border pass or anything like that. If you are already talking about this, here I would like you to consider that the identity cards can be issued at diplomatic consular offices precisely because of all Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia and because of the cost reduction, knowing that these ID cards will only be worth 5 years and not 10 years, as you have tried to explain precisely because of these cryptographic data on these control chips. It should not be disturbed with the mind that even the MUP today has no reading for control chips, which is another additional cost or burden for the state budget. Now, if you take me and my age, if I don't compare myself with the President of the Parliament, I'm going to need to take out my ID five times, which I don't think is good because it actually allows citizens at 65 to not have to take those IDs out. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110652	Thank you very much. A new replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110653	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, at the moment we brought in the OIB as a unique identification mark for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then there was an agreement between the resolution ministries as it progressed technologically that we would practically seek to have a driver's license and health care card in the next 5 years. Unfortunately with this ID Act, the project is definitely given up as well as the central register concerning the OIB. And apparently someone's talking to the OIB who should finally give a clear blood and property picture in Croatia and cut red tape and save steps and time for Croatian citizens. However, what I also want to say is 280 thousand Croatian citizens who have lost their right to their identity card by amending the law on residence, I don't think anything in life means to them that someone will write that they have a residence. Because I'll be here right now on this occasion, and that's what I said on the Croatians' Committee, about Croats outside Croatia, and that's what these people's tax status is. Because let's not forget what the residence means, let's not forget about the 182 days, let's not forget that these citizens, especially those in Western Europe, own properties in the Republic of Croatia, let's not forget that citizens from overseas countries with whom Croatia has no signed contracts to avoid double taxation, no signed health insurance contracts, will be found practically in the situation that they will be completely disabled from returning to the Republic of Croatia because if he pays the pension tax in America he will have to pay in Croatia as well. Therefore, this identity card given the specifics of Croatia, given that Croatia is with Italy and Ireland in the European Union, which has the largest migration, I think we must then do some things specific and...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110654	Thank you very much. We've finished the replicas and the answers to the replica. Now will, yes, representatives of the committee's working bodies. The first is the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Honored Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110655	Thank you, Mr. President. In the discussion of the final proposal for a personal ID law, the committee members gave an assessment that there was actually no reasonable reason to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed law. In particular, it stressed that the right to an identity card in the languages and letters of national minorities existed in the former state, with the fact that it was then related to a particular area. Thus, in Istria, all from bilingual areas, regardless of their nationality, were given bilingual cards where bilingualism was valid. In the Republic of Croatia, this right is related to an individual or a member of a particular minority which cannot be considered progress in this area. Article 7 states that the right to bilingualism... is established by special law or international contracts, but it is also established by county, city or municipal statutes which is not mentioned in this provision. In addition, since the terms of the identity card form refer to both the final appearance of the identity card and the form on which the application for the identity card is submitted, it is important that both forms, as well as the content to be found on the electronic data carrier, be in languages and letters of national minorities where bilingualism is valid. When it comes to the creation of a new ID card, it draws attention to the legal provision under which the minister determines the price of making a card as an additional burden for Croatian citizens, with the fact that the legislative proposal never mentions the fact that citizens will have to buy, if they want to, of course, and an appropriate reader who will be able to obtain it on the free market and at a market price, because one must probably know what it says on his identity card. The additional burden of citizens will also be a notice for drawing up a new person's card every 5 years. Since Article 4 provides that the period of validity of the identity card is 5 years with the fact that the proposed deadline is not justified, the question has been raised as to how it is possible that, given the level of technological progress and the unlimited number of data to be found on the electronic data carrier, there are no such solutions as to ensure that those data are kept for the next 10 years as far as the cards could be valid. It is considered that penalties from 3 to 4,5 thousand kuna have been provided for persons who have had to and have not issued a new identity card or if individual personal data have been changed and they have not applied for a new identity card, disproportionate to the infringement. It has been pointed out that in certain cases, for example for citizens living on islands or in areas of special state care, in villages away from police stations or administrations, there are objective circumstances to exceed the planned deadline. It also drew attention to the fact that during 2014, nearly 260 Croatian citizens were deleted from their residence and residence records, which is also important because they were obliged to return their identity card for their physical cancellation. The same individuals, as noted, are now given the opportunity to get a ID card, which is a re-cost for those whose card has only recently been cancelled and has no new one yet. Since the proposed law determines that all Croatian citizens have the right to a ID card, the proposal has been made to provide for the possibility that diplomatic and consular representations can be issued. This is particularly important for Croatian citizens living in overseas countries where representation itself is often very far away, but because of the inability to come to the Republic of Croatia to come up with a identity card. I note that more than a million Croatian citizenships were divided in the early 1990s. Remember that information. In view of the importance of the introduction of an electronic ID card to encourage and monitor the development of the information society and the development of the state administration system, the provision of user-oriented electronic public services and the need for public participation of all users in the use and development of electronic services, it was noted that the necessary analyses had to be carried out to confirm the possibility of achieving this purpose. It was noted that it was necessary to identify earlier how many Croatian citizens have access to the Internet, how many of those households that have access to it can serve at all, how much space coverage and availability of networks in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the like. Finally and finally, the attention has been drawn to the fact that the contact chips provided for in this legislative proposal are already obsolete and that their introduction is therefore contrary to the current European Union directives and the question is why Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, is doing so right now. It is also suspected that in the event of identity theft or other abuses, it will be possible to provide the necessary data protection containing an identity card. After the debate was held, the Committee decided by majority vote, 6 votes for and 2 abstentions to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a final draft law, to pass the Law on the ID card with one amendment. Article 7(2) and (3) are amended and read as follows: Where this is established by specific law or international agreements, the application form, the identity card form and the content of the identity card for a person of a national minority shall be printed in both the language and the letter of the national minority. And three. The form for the request, the form of the identity card and the content of the card referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be completed in Croatian with a Latin letter and language and letters of national minorities. The explanation is brief. The proposed amendment would point out that, in addition to the fact that the identity card itself must be written in the language and letter of the national minorities in accordance with the provisions of the specific law governing the issue, and international contracts, it is necessary that the application for the identity card and the content to be contained in the computer, the electronic data carrier is also written in the language and letters of the national minorities in order to avoid any doubt on this legal provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110656	Thank you very much. Do the presidents and representatives of other working bodies want to make their views known? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Labour Party in the Croatian Parliament and the Honorable Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110657	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. Last week, we discussed amendments to the laws governing travel documents in Parliament, and the bill did not go by emergency procedure, but by regular procedure, and this one was proposed by an emergency procedure. And in the light of the emergency procedure, I only understood that it would allow citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have the right to their ID to come to summer, to spend their summers in Croatia and to use this law and to raise or fix their new IDs. This is not a valid reason for an emergency procedure, especially because of the dilemmas that this law still carries. And I think it would be better if you had gone into two readings if it wasn't too late and the government could suggest two readings to avoid that amendments must be intervened in the proposed law itself. Secondly, Article 1 defines that the identity card is proof of Croatian citizenship. I'm interested in Mr. Deputy Minister whether you've made cross-resorial coordination and whether it's clear to everyone in this country now that all the laws, and especially the regulations prescribed, are that the proof of nationality or the proof of citizenship for the sake of the housekeeper is erased. In fact, we are still in a situation where part of the body of the state government, local self-government, and also public institutions, as evidence of citizenship, are looking for a housekeeper. It's one pointless situation. You can't get an I.D. without a housekeeper. You bring your housekeeper, you get your I.D., and then five more calls for your housekeeper. If it is defined here that the identity card is proof of nationality, then no one else, and it is not a matter of this law, but of other particularly sublegal regulations, cannot ask for another document of proof of nationality if the party proves it to the identity card. It is precisely the absence of these inter-resorship coordinations and not amending sub-legislative rules after the adoption of new laws that are often due to the malignancy of the general public administration in the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that even you in the Parliament when we were calling for tenders and public calls for some choice and appointments were requested a picture of the housekeeper. Second, a provision on the validity of a 5-year identity card. I don't know why we're doing a big technical and technological step-up first, so we're putting two certificates on the ID form, and then we're bringing the identity card down to five years, from the current 10 to the 5th. Because this is always an excuse for some technical problems later on, it comes down to the fact that we take money from citizens every five years to respect the law and change their IDs every five years. At the time of the pen, rubber, paper and indiga and when a piece of paper was plasticized, it was worth 10 years, now that electronics has progressed so much, when we introduce the possibility of electronic signature by law, we reduce the validity of the identity card to five years. Who can't wait for a deadline to get close to him to run to a police station or administration to get new IDs? And I don't agree to the argument that it's technical problems. Government and administration exist because technical solutions adapt to citizens and their needs and interests, and not vice versa, so that citizens will be the ones who solve the problem of technical problems, so every 5 years we will change IDs. No overexplanation, an excuse for technical problems, Mr. Deputy, is acceptable. It just isn't. If you are not ready technically to solve the problem that it is worth 10 years, withdraw this law, give it to first reading, solve technical problems and then come with the law. Next, on Article 10, but in the context of the fact that the identity card can also be a travel document. So, I.D. can also be a travel document. We are facing a problem of the same provision, Mr. Deputy Minister, this article has the same provision as the Article x of the Law on Travel Documents. And the problem arises and can occur in children who have parents where both legal guardians are, and no judicial or administrative proceedings have been completed to challenge paternity, divorce, and irresponsible parenting. In fact, children aged 15, 16 can look for a ID card to make it easier for all jobs for education. However, if the paternity dispute procedure is in progress, divorces in order to obtain the identity of both parents must apply or submit one and take over the other. And what if this parent, simply another parent, is not available? The divorce process is ongoing, it takes a long time and is not in Croatia either. Or out of spite of an ex-partner, though, punishes a child, refuses to give consent to obtain an identity card that can serve him as a travel document. Or what if a legal provision applies that the father of a child is the mother’s husband by law, and the mother has initiated a paternity dispute procedure to prove that the other husband is the father of a child and that the biological father could give that consent, and the process takes place, there is no legal right. A child should travel to Austria or Germany for schooling or treatment for which he needs a ID card. Or they want to enroll in high school and college outside the residence site. Or it's about irresponsible parenting that doesn't respond to another partner's call to make it possible for the child. I do not have a complete formulation, and I have also warned with travel documents, and I am also now warning that this formulation in Article 10, in unpleasant situations, can lead to a large number of children and parents. As in Article 9, there is a risk of abuse. Namely one of the parents, especially in the process of disputed paternity, custody and since the identity card and travel document on fraud can handle the identity card and the child from Croatia, and the case is still pending. The protection mechanisms in Article 9 do not exist from possible abuses. And consulting with the social services is necessary to make the provisions of Article 10, and in particular paragraph 9, you shall lead to a minimum of the possibility of abuse. You've given an emergency procedure, there's no time. I did not invent what I just told you, but in public you can follow the tragic situations of the problems that I was now talking about, and people were forced to go public to point out bad legislative solutions or abuse of certain legal provisions or their indetermination. And if there's a possibility that in only 10 cases we can cause a problem, that's enough reason to make the law clearer. Finally, as regards Article 22, it is also related to Article 2 which provides for the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose to the Minister for Internal Affairs the designation of a legal person owned by the State to carry out the tasks of the technical making of the identity card, the printing of the form and issue of the certificate. I found no provision of responsibility, so I don't know who that legal person is and who that legal person is going to be? You didn't even mention that. So the law came by emergency procedure, effective practically immediately, who is this legal person who will meet the conditions at this time to take over the affairs of this law? Is this a state secret or can it be said in the Croatian Parliament? Or maybe this particular legal person is the reason why personal will only be worth five years? However, what concerns me is that there is no provision on the responsibility of that legal person for the possible misuse of data or theft of data, identity theft. There are criminal provisions that will pay x thousand or 10 or 100 thousand kuna if they don't secure something. However, we have witnessed again in public these days that there has been data abuse and identity theft based on a photocopy of the identity card and that citizens have entered into debt slavery, account blockades and executive procedures because by photocopying their identity card someone has concluded a contract with a teleoper. And the citizen can't prove that it wasn't him, and this guy doesn't have to prove otherwise. So it's enough that someone's photocopy of their ID card shows up with the service provider on which he makes the contract, that criminal creates a citizen whose identity has stolen enormous costs and this guy has to pay them, he has to pay them. And now we come up with a new ID card with two certificates, including electronic signatures and protected data. I forgot to ask because it's really gonna take citizens to have a reader to read what his ID card says? But what is the responsibility of that legal person if the use of data or the theft of data occurs, identity for all those whose identity card is especially with the certificate. Or even in that case, a citizen whose data have been misused in this way or identity will be stolen in a situation to first settle all costs that one of them asks for without a minimum chance of proving that there has been abuse or theft of data. The issue of protection and sanctioning just for possible failures as you wrote in article 27, not protecting citizens, this is sanctioning non-action, but the responsibility if it comes to that is something else. Who's responsible in that case? Is that legal person owned by the Republic of Croatia because the law gives that legal person on behalf of the Republic of Croatia the right, these transactions and they work on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, not on their own behalf, they personally issue not their own name but their own. Does the Republic of Croatia bear responsibility if a citizen suffers from damage caused by the failure, theft of identity and misuse of data that has occurred in a legal person owned by the Republic of Croatia? There are too many cases, Mr. Deputy Minister, in Croatia these days, too many people are in great difficulty to get over it. Your answers can help you understand the law, but without changing the 10 years of validity of your ID card this law will be very difficult to support.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110658	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Let's get this straight. Honorable representative Miroslav Tudjman replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110659	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, you've asked here if there was an inter-resor agreement regarding one nonsense to be sought then by the housekeeper, when the identity card confirms it. The fact is that there is a law under which the state cannot ask the citizens of the documents it already has, the data it already has. But the fact is also that on what state databases is available, I got the answer that the Ministry of Administration does not have data on the databases the state has. In other words, the real ones don't work on the inter-resorial, but the government simply doesn't respect this. On the other hand, you yourself have already said here with this view that as technology allows for a signed certificate, the identification certificate assumes that the paperwork is giving up and that it is simply electronic evidence. But the problem is that there is no information security strategy, there are no laws and regulations that will then be protected, thus simply opening up a series of new issues where there is no mild idea how to solve them and how to deal with them. And so, I'm going to talk about a number of other things, but the clear thing is that this is about the logic of some technological possibilities and innovation and without any strategic and long-term thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110660	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110661	Comrade Tudjman, that's exactly why I opened this topic. Namely, the state first considers that the document that I prove to be a citizen of the Republic of Croatia and then, on the second counter, I am sought proof that I am a citizen of the Republic of Croatia by the same state. And I know of this provision, but this provision almost does not apply in practice because a little bit, so we are in a position to prove to the state authorities that we are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, now that it has such a provision and new ID cards in all regulations which stipulate that someone has the right to seek a housewife rather than a ID card, they could understand that for those citizens who do not have a ID card because they do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, but under this law, they will also have the right to an ID card. So, proof of citizenship only once, just once, and that's when I.D.'d. Then we met the purpose of wanting to make it easier for citizens to respect the law, that they must have a ID which is also proof of identity and citizenship. Of course it's only one time, but on this example, I want to say how many absurdities we create. And then it's all worth five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110662	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Furio Radin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110663	Thank you. Comrade Lesar, I'll try to give you the answer to that question. In 90% of cases, it does not matter whether you have or do not have citizenship if we are members of the EU, but if you have or do not have a permanent stay. With our citizenship at all overrated, it is not customary to ask in EU countries citizenship but 90% and more than 90% of the rights including the right to participate in local and regional elections, all but national elections the right to pay taxes or to have tax breaks come from whether you have a permanent stay. The opposite, I mentioned earlier, is more than a million citizenships that Croatia has shared in the 1990s, many of which have not even been in Croatia and which, on the basis of such evidence of citizenship, could then have a permanent stay and then all the rights that arise from it. So my advice would be next if we didn't potentiate citizenship but potentiate a permanent stay, it's a European spirit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110664	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110665	Thank you. My colleague Radin, it is clear to me that by entering Croatia into the EU, the issue of residence is the topic on which a number of things are solved, but still, there are a number of things but not only in Croatia, but also in Europe that are related to citizenship. And we can't say that let's say someone who isn't a citizen of the Republic of Croatia can be appointed as a judge of the Constitutional Court, so that's a question of citizenship or elected representative in the Croatian Parliament, there's a question of citizenship again. So there are a number of things where citizenship is a big difference from the one that got a residence permit from a permanent stay, temporary or any other. But the issue of citizenship is not just a matter of proof to state authorities in Croatia. Croatian citizens travel around the world, not only to the EU, and in these countries the issue of citizenship is still something to be sought, asked and proved.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110666	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110667	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Lesar, I'd like to show my face and support myself in this part when you were talking about the issue of article 10 or about the issue of issuing an identity card for a child. In fact, I warned several committees and gave my opinion on this article. I think that with certain provisions like this, he's complicated to say life like that, but mostly parents among whom there's no problem, so where are normal marriages and where they are now because of those who have manipulated or intended to manipulate all the others. I'm also talking about situations where a parent lives only to live in another city for work, so during the week he's away or even if he lives and works abroad, let's say he's a seaman, so he has to wait for him to come to some port, so he has to find our consular representation there to give consent that another parent can make a request, etc. So I have appealed to the promoter to see, I am also sorry that this is in an emergency procedure, to see how this part can be worked out in a way that I am aware that there is a need to reduce the possibility of manipulation to a minimum, and that on the other hand we are not making it more difficult and financially difficult, because it is possible to give a statement or verify the signature of a public notary, etc., so that in that part we do not burden those families in which there are no such problems. Here's my support in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110668	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110669	Thank you. Comrade Sobol, thank you for your support. In fact, I had a similar debate on Article 10 when Minister Milenic was here on travel documents and the same provision was written there. That law was not in the first reading, and the minister promised to make additional counsellings to avoid all these traps that you and I were talking about. But you see, this is an emergency procedure now. The amendment to react to the wordings of Article 10 is almost impossible. I don't know why, we're warning them again that there's a possibility of major problems in the application of Article 10. We will have an absurd situation that we will then see travel documents after Minister Orsat Milenić has clearly understood what improvements are being made, and here we will have a legal solution like this. It's completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110670	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The club of independent leftists and respected representative Branko Vuksic is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110671	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Deputy Minister with an associate. Surely you remember, and especially you who have been in the Croatian Parliament, those declarations from this pay phone all in one place. There's one prime minister who came in with those big scissors and we're gonna cut off everything we don't need, and I'm gonna show you what it looks like in one place. You have to have one of these big boxes in that box you have to have your cards and then you take those cards out and you see that every card is worth nothing. And then you have a driver's license specifically you have, so you have a driver's license if it's newer then you have this newer one, and then you have a health care license, so you have an additional medical license, so you have an I.D. She's the least worth it. She's not worth anything. Here's an example, I got a new family member and we should have reported it to our address. Since my wife and I were co-owners, we had to come to the police station and when we got there, we brought the IDs. They said no I.D. you need to get a residence certificate, and the I.D. says where we live. And then we paraded there for two hours and finally got it. For each certificate, for every process you need, you need to remove the housekeeper and you need to remove the list from the book born no older than 6 months. What provision is that, why not over six months older than a man, why not over six months? To pay for, to have bureaucracy to exist for. This law that our club won't support doesn't make any sense. If these cards aren't in that one, then it doesn't make any sense. We've got the chip, we can put everything on the cards. It doesn't make sense to pass the I.D. Law when the I.D. isn't worth it. It's only worth identifying, nothing else. So you can only identify yourself when you're told on the port by who you are, then you say, no one's even looking at the picture, I guess it's pro-formal then they're looking for your card. Therefore, if there is no health care, if there is no driver's license upstairs, if there are no documents that are needed and if you need for any process that a citizen does, you need to take out a copy of the birth certificate, then the married, then the housekeeper, I don't know what, which all the documents, then that card is worth nothing. We should, in addition to this law, change a set of laws that or sublegal acts that prescribes that it should be so. And when logically even bureaucrats, the clerks on the counters think logically, they say we're not guilty like that in law. That's right. That's what the law says, if he breaks that law, he gets fired. And who's to blame? Legislator, legislator, legislator. It means it makes sense. We're just passing laws that have nothing to do with each other and don't mean anything to themselves. That doesn't mean anything either. Especially since every five years, you're going to need to change your card. Then let's not do that. That's a big expense. I'd like to ask you, Deputy Minister, to say how much that chip costs. How much does that story cost? How much is a citizen's story going to cost? Is it really important at this point to pass a new I.D. Act that doesn't change anything in essence? Because this e-Citizens, etc., let's take a look at how many people use it. What do those people who can't be used do? Which are illiterate. Will this I.D. citizens be brought in, I guess, because of citizens, will the paperwork need to be reduced? It won't go down by a single piece of paper, you'll still be breaking the counter onto the counter. Those big scissors didn't cut anything, except they cut off the logic, they cut off any help from the citizens. Because citizens still have to break the thresholds. But it's a question of citizens, but everything that citizens do you need to know that employers have a very big problem. It also has nothing to do with the I.D., but it's also about paperwork. One construction employer, a capitalist who employs 500 people, said it is not a government problem, is not a problem, regardless of whether HDZ, SDP, whose government, is the problem of bureaucracy. For every permit, I have to lose six months, what I get out there in a week because that's the rules. All of this is complicated and then bureaucracy needs to become its own purpose and find justification for its existence. It doesn't even matter that there are so many, and I don't know whether there are too many or not, it's important that it's ineffective, it's important that it makes it worse, all those counters are not to help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but are to help them, to make their lives worse, to make life worse for all those who want to do business in Croatia. And that doesn't make sense. You have to ask yourself, when we pass a law, does it make sense to pass that law? If it doesn't make sense, let's not bring it in. Just because we can say that we have a I.D. chip and what we're gonna do with that chip when this guy tells me you don't have an old housekeeper, it's been six months since your birth certificate. And then what's worth to me is that I.D. and that chip when we don't have a chip in my head. The problem is, I think there's a chip in my head. What I was talking about earlier, which, to me, is unclear, perhaps the assistant minister can explain why we need to take out all that paperwork every day, and every day we need to pay some taxes. Is that the purpose, that they are the purpose of the fee. Therefore, all of these, it is pointless for me to comment on the article by article, to talk about the details of the law when the essence of the proposal itself falls away from that simplest elemental logic, which is that the identity card is only valid for identification and that some kind of identity card will normally not give you a traffic policeman respect but requires a driver's license. There's so much, the Independent Left-handed Club won't support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110672	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have seven replicas reported. Honorable representative Drazenko Pandek, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110673	Thank you. Dear colleague, you have essentially pointed to a good path in your debate, so that's what it's supposed to look like. So if, in the future, it's possible to open up the possibility if I'm stopped by the police and I don't have a driver's license that they have a reader in the vehicle and they can easily verify the identity of your driver's license, so we don't really have to have a driver's license if we have an I.D. and we don't have these other documents. But the prerequisite for that should be this. So it's safe to start with something. You need to start building from the ground up, you can't start building a roof. This is exactly the basis for everyone else's regulations to change. Of course, you need to encourage and you need to influence everything else to change, but I'm saying this law and ID card with these certificates is then a prerequisite that exactly what you're talking about, which I also think is a good way to make it look, I'm sure it will... look that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110674	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110675	Dear fellow Pandek, we agree on this, but we disagree that this should be the foundation and that the foundation, never builds a house so that it is built based and then a few years you are released based and then five years later a roof is built. It's a missed investment. Secondly, first of all, we in Croatia are an example to Europe, for example, to charge for parking. So we have people who know how to solve it, we have a solution, only systems, we just heard in replicas, the system doesn't work, it doesn't have everything in one place. One ministry or department at the ministry doesn't know what the other department is doing and they don't have data on the other department. Why? Well, technology was bought, each in his ′′ataru′′ bought, each of his suppliers..., nothing was stopped and it was very difficult to do because we made mistakes that were not only a mistake of this government but were mistakes and previous governments. So if we don't solve it, let's not do it if we don't have the roof and we don't know what the roof looks like, if we don't know what that house is going to be like, let's not build the windows, let's wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110676	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mile Horvat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110677	Dear colleague Vuksic, in your debate, in your speech you have finally shown one dilemma, so does it make sense what we do? I'm not gonna set things up that hard, but I'm just going to add one more dilemma to it that's a little bit spoken of. The identity card, the electronic card is at the same time other than the I.D. and the travel document. I remind you that members of national minorities have the right to show their desire to have their identity card issued bilingually, while the travel document cannot be except for the Latin, hence the official letter. So now a dilemma is being put in place, this dualism that we are thinking of solving the fact that it is both travel and personal, and the members of the national minorities then have the right specifically in the Cyrillic letter, language and letter, and how it will function as a travel document when it can only be a travel document in a Latin letter. So that's one dilemma that I don't think anyone's thought about here, and I think that this whole thing and the proposer will have to think about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110678	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110679	Dear fellow Horvat, you said it was quite harsh to wonder if it made any sense to what we were doing. Doubting is always wise, who doesn't doubt then I doubt his mind, the one who doesn't doubt. And I don't think it's harsh to ask if it makes sense what we do, often... what I do makes sense. Even sometimes I don't find the right meaning. A travel document, a ID card is a travel document only for some countries, we know that and it cannot be treated as a travel document because you know well that you can't in many countries with a ID card, but it can for border countries and for those with whom we have such a contract. After all, we are now a country of the European Union and it is much easier for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to travel than before. But the point is that if we are already planning to introduce a new ID card, then we do it in the most modern way, but in a way that will benefit all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and who will not ask us to have large boxes and that we have... cards to prove on each counter some special possibility of achieving some of our rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110680	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo, new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110681	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, you touched nicely during your debate that everything should be in one place and that is logical, as other countries have and even that to the blood group. But seeing that it is often necessary to confirm a place of residence that has its own time limit, which is an additional cost. It would be logical to go and change that law because it would be good if we were to pass logical laws here in the Croatian Parliament. I ask you then a question, seeing as we have the need for 4 million Croats to have a ID card then I ask you if it's a cheaper chip or 4 million people to cut their deadline to 5 years instead of being a ID card with a rolling deadline of 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110682	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110683	Dear colleague Bubalo, you have now said one sentence, you have wondered, too, in terms of actually you have wondered about logic in one wrong place, we often illogical laws are passed and we are often quarreled with logic. What you asked, yes, first all in one place. A set of laws should be amended with the identity card to indicate that the identity card is a valid document for everything else. It's been so long, it doesn't make any sense to my people. We'll pass this bill and ID won't be worth anything and there's no point in your logic being the right logic. Let's just wonder why we bring it here. We're still doing an emergency procedure. I'd understand that by an emergency procedure we've passed a whole set of laws to change that I.D. when you have it good for you for everything, what's logical for everyone. You said blood type, of course, for everything. In a number of accidents when you have your ID card on you they know which blood type you are, doctors know better how short it is if life is threatened, if you know what blood type is, and it says on that card.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110684	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110685	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's fellow Vuksic how illogical this proposal is. I'll tell you now from my own personal example. It's because of the fact that I ran out of I.D. about a month ago, I pulled out a new I.D. that was actually made under the old chip-free law and it was taken out at the end of last month and it's worth until 2025. So, 10 years. Now we're passing a law whereby citizens who are going to get new cards are going to have to have a new card every five years and it's probably going to be something more expensive than they've ever been. So, absolutely illogical. Now I don't know if anyone's missing a chip in their head or not, but don't call it because it seems to me the way some countries started installing already the chips in people it's just experimental for now. But we've seen some factories recently. We have seen, I have recently seen a Swedish report in which employees of a company have injected a chip by hand and thus received access to certain technologies in that company, since even opening the door, etc. So that the summoning of the chip in your head isn't very healthy and it's not good because it seems to me that soon, and I hope it won't be so fast with us because we're not exactly in accepting new technologies so fast, so I hope it won't get to us so fast.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110686	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110687	Dear fellow Matusic, of course I'm not calling on what you've actually ironized, I agree with you. What we're interested in, and many have said before, Arsen Dedic would say, "Who's going to pay for it?" We need some calculation. And this would be all logical, this would be cheap, and we would change every five years if that I.D. was worth what I said. When you, with your identity card other than proof of identity, prove everything else your housekeeper carries, a birth certificate copy, so you don't need to take out a special driver's license, you don't need to get a special card. It's also cheap for the state. I don't know why it's not done. Well, to me, it's illogical for me, maybe I'm naive, so it's illogical for me, which is why I don't put it all in one place when it's possible to put and change every five years, so that doesn't bother me. But then when I have my I.D. I've solved all my problems, no one can tell me on the counter anymore, but you don't have this document, you need to take it out, stand in line number six there counters. Then he says this six that I don't know what other places I'm taking right now, so I'm banalizing. So I wouldn't mind those five years. And secondly, I believe the assistant minister will say how much it'll cost and why it's not doing what's supposed to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110688	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110689	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Vuksic, you have well established that you have an urgent procedure, and the explanation that is in this urgent procedure is really amazing. The introduction of an electronic identity card would encourage the development of public services and enable electronic business and economic operators and electronic communication of economic operators with state administration authorities to facilitate and accelerate the launch of economic activities. The introduction of an electronic identity card and would make it easier for citizens to communicate with the authorities of the state administration and local self-government without the need to enter the competent institutions in order to achieve certain tasks. Only experts can encourage economic activity. This argument really doesn't drink water and it's really lame put here and it's another proof of wandering and unbelief. And as for the documents that are needed and the cost of costing, here's how I calculated it. If you are photographing 50 kn in color, if the proof of payment is required to be submitted to the state budget 48.50 and if the chip is 30 kuna plus a copy of the queen born plus the dominoes somewhere around 200 and some kunas would total cost that card to every citizen. This is another imposition on Croatian citizens who are certainly unnecessary and who certainly has no role in economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110690	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110691	Dear colleague Djakic, here's the problem. Now that we've got the new card out, we've got the old card, and we've got the old card based on the housekeeper and the copies that are needed for it. Why would we need new copies now when we're just changing IDs? So it would make sense, you have one card that you got based on those documents. Why do you need to retrieve these documents again? That's illogical. And secondly, I totally agree not to take this any longer. The explanation you read is illogical.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110692	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110693	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Vukšić, you have shown an envious collection of your cards, but I could add a few more cards to prove ownership or any other form of belonging to the body that issued you that card. As far as we're concerned, the islander's identity card isn't even enough to prove his identity, so in addition to the I.D. we had to make an islander's I.D. that serves us to prove to ourselves that we are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that we live on the island. And clearly she's worth five years, so we're going to have to build a new island card for her over the next three years. Well, we islanders don't have enough registration to prove that we own the vehicle we run, so in addition to the traffic license, we have to build another vehicle card that's worth only five years again. So in the next five years, it will take us at least once a year to draw out a card to prove that we are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that we are owners of the vehicle we operate. And I still want to add that you asked for expenses. Here is this vignette, an island card that we prove to be the owners of the vehicle and which changes for us the island traffic licence costs us 80 kuna, so that at the end of last year they are islanded to prove that the owners of the vehicle for which the vehicle has a traffic licence had to allocate about 4 and a half million kuna to get a ticket that finally proves to Croatian shipowners, and on a proposal from the Government, that the owners of the vehicle for which they clearly own all the valid documents and which are worth clearly to the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia as an ordinary and normal ID card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110694	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110695	Dear colleague Bacic, here's what I suggest is that we do one business, which is that these boxes are a little bit bigger, and we're starting to produce fatter. And the other thing is it looks like because I often go to Cres and know what all the islanders should have and what they show on the Krga Bridge, which shows on the ferry seems to be the island's suspicious people because they need far more documents. And that's one of the imbalances that we're talking about, and that's one of the illogicalities if it's written on your vehicle book if it writes you an address why do you need a special card? If it's in your I.D. on your address, why do you need a special one? But look, there are people here now who can handle it, they're not going to solve it. That's the problem. That's the problem. We just don't work things out. And then the critics will say look at these just critics. And what can I say positively in that?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110696	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110697	Thank you very much. Fellow Vukšić, you have indeed listed various paradoxical and grotesque data regarding the colourful use of personal data. One of them is, for example, that at the door of the administration that solves personal data, please pay one kuna in favour of the state budget. Now, when you pay one kuna there they tell you it's six kunas because five kunas is a payment and it's a fee, right? And for the one kuna you need, you can't pay it there. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Secondly, the colourfulness of the use of personal data is seen, here I have signed a lot of initiatives of referendum and given person and say no need, give me JMBG. I.D. doesn't say JMBG. So do you have an OIB? Well, I don't just have an A.D. and I have an O.I.B. says there. So, what does a personal one serve anyway? I guess it's the painting or I don't know if the painting's even neat. Well, they say we know you well, so they signed in. And I know JMBG by heart, don't I? Now, when you or I run out of a year of technical inspection and vehicle insurance 20 or how many insurance houses you hear from 15 days earlier and tells you it expires then. They know when you're running out. Not the one you're with, but everyone else knows. And he's still writing you his name and last name, and he's writing the OIB. So 20 insurance houses know my OIB. And the OIB was supposed to be just some sort of personal number, which is why it's called a personal identification number. So what does AZOP do, what happens in this country? These 20 insurance houses know my OIB, and if I hadn't communicated with them at all, I wouldn't have had business contacts. Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110698	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110699	Dear counterpart Grubisic, when the OIB was introduced, was then said when the OIB was introduced, and that is, the intention was all will be known by the OIB. So when the OIB comes in, you'll see everything from the blood type on, about what we talked about today. But this is interesting what you said to pay one kuna. This is directly the legislator's fault because this officer must not take one kuna, and he could take one kuna because the law is such that we need to finance the banks. Five kunas will get the bank for what? For one kuna, he'll get five kunas. It's like having lawyers robbing citizens you owe someone 200, 300 kn and you get an 1800 kuna bill because the legislator said rob a citizen to the naked skin, to the bones not to the skin, now it's up to the bones to rob a citizen. And it's a clean robbery. And this can change. Why would someone pay five kunas of bank or postage for anything, bank service for one kuna? But that's the law. And that clerk has to do it because the legislator said let's help the banks, the banking sector, the tycoons because they have to live well but the citizens need to live poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110700	On behalf of SDP representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110701	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports this proposal of the Law on the ID even though it is in principle possible to give criticism in the fact that we may be changing existing laws too often, but I would say that the changes proposed by this proposal in relation to the previous law are essentials that we should have introduced before. Introductoryly, in order to avoid any misunderstandings that may be triggered by rumors or concerns that this law may mean the need to amend existing documents, it should therefore be pointed out that this does not impose an obligation to change existing identity cards. Therefore, they are worth until the date by which they are determined to be valid and they will only be taken by the citizens after the expiry of the existing identity cards. So there's no change here. Only if they want to be able to get this new card with this electronic chip. When in the parliamentary procedure there was a debate on amendments and additions to the previous law which regulated this topic two years ago, I pointed out that necessary steps should be taken towards a greater introduction of the principle of eGovernment, therefore, and with regard to identity cards. And this bill is in that direction. The fact that ID cards will now be fitted with an identification and signed certificate is considered a huge step towards a faster and better introduction of the principle of eGovernment into various personal and social spheres. The identification procedures, therefore, the most common identifications will now be able to be much faster and simpler and more efficient. Now let's say that in a certain procedure where your identification was needed instead of the oral giving of all generals and waiting for those data to be typed somewhere, there is a prerequisite that it will simply be possible to provide your identity card, drag it through the reader, and the whole procedure is much faster and simpler. And most importantly, I would like to assess the fact that these are the preconditions that electronic signatures will be made significantly easier. Unfortunately, to date, the Law on Electronic Signature has not come across a broader application. This is exactly the law we will consider to allow for change. Now it will be extremely relieved. In a safe way, we hope that this law will therefore enable it to become easily accessible and widely applied. The use of electronic signature also significantly raises security... signatories and reduces the possibility of possible manipulation and fraud. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No fraud was ever reported. Let's face it, on a few occasions I've even heard there's been a manipulation of selling other people's land that someone falsified their ID card, came in there, introduced himself as the owner of the land and sold someone else's land. They are now being introduced with these certain security barriers because you will have to log in electronically, confirm your identity with the authorised certification service provider and, for example, such fraud will no longer be possible. They would also say that the introduction of this law prevents the making of statements in different ways by digital means, the launch of administrative, judicial procedures with electronic signatures. At first, it is noted that there will be a need, of course, to continue to normative compliance and to enable, so changing other regulations, but we say this is the beginning, this is the basis without which even changing other regulations would not be possible, nor would it be possible to change a whole set of regulations at once. We go gradually and I would even say that we are late in this whole process of introducing the principle of e-government into all spheres and administrations, and I would say to the judiciary and private life, but this is the first step, one of the first steps in that direction. The purchase and execution of online transactions, therefore, should be significantly safer and easier in the security elements that come with the application of this electronic signature. So, by adopting and implementing this law, we are assessing in the SDP club a number of positive effects are being achieved and we look forward to opening huge opportunities for faster business, faster and safer, more efficient performance of many jobs and procedures both by citizens and by business entities and judicial and administrative bodies. It is clear that further amendments to the legal and sublegislative rules will be needed again so that all possible benefits that bring an electronic ID card can be brought to life in practice, as well as in the SDP club, we also encourage a representative of the internal affairs to, in inter-resort cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and other ministries, the Ministry of Health, for example. encourages the necessary changes to the rules so that as soon as possible all the benefits that these changes can bring can be used in reality. Of course, here and the question of the duration of the I.D.'s new five-year-old, we can conclude by considering matter that it was done naturally for security reasons. Progress in information, in cryptography is very large. There are recommendations that these, for security reasons, some cryptographic elements change faster every 3 years, for example. But this is when you look at and study matter, this is recommended as some kind of optimal term for five years. It should be said that the certificates containing the identity card provide these great opportunities, but in any case there are risks, so with the passing of time, these risks are due to the possibility of progress and in breaking these cryptographic elements, so it opens up with the passing of time a greater possibility of abuse, but I am warning that more detailed explanations should be heard in the public why, therefore, 5 years so that these justifications should be given to the public in detail by avoiding any legitimate objections, i.e. ambiguity. They would commend the initiative to introduce mandatory issue of certificates, but also to allow older people over 65 years not to renew their ID cards and certificates if they do not want to. In spite of the fact that many will now be angry that they have to request the issue of a new ID card with these certificates, benefites and reliefs that will be made possible by using these certificates, so that they use them in terms of identification and the ability to use them for electronic signatures, so these benefits will be great in everyday life and I believe that if someone has in the beginning and resistance that when they realize what benefits it will bring them, they will be very happy to agree that it is necessary and necessary. But I'm going back to people over 65, and I'm going to have to leave a choice. It is about persons who are in peace, who, due to objective circumstances, should not be forced to take action, by undertaking which can ultimately be counterproductive or personally difficult for them. We therefore welcome the fact that these certain obligations stemming from this law are not imposed on those persons. As regards the other obligations imposed by this law, let us say, such as the mandatory conclusion of a contract with an authorised issuer of certificates and a replacement obligation, we reiterate the need to justify as much as possible by presenting and explaining the advantages and benefits of certain obligations imposed by this law, which will be imposed. In this respect, it may also point out certain recommendations, namely, the adoption of this law as I pointed out the introduction of the principle of eGovernment into all segments of administration and society in general. We therefore consider the necessary and further thinking as the introduction of this principle and in the area of this matter regarding identity cards. It is now prescribed under the law to manually fill out the identity card forms, to take an analogue photo directly, so the physical withdrawal of the identity cards by the issuer when the identity card expires, should be physically returned first to get a new one at the competent police station. Now, there is no technical possibility that this may in some way improve and speed up, but we recommend that as soon as the technical possibilities are met and, of course, work should be done to introduce these technical possibilities, then start to digitise and these processes, and, for example, to: allow a procedure similar to that when banks issue their current account card and credit cards, they send most of it to home address. It has proved quite safe, there are procedures and I believe that in some things we can copy the private sector to facilitate and speed up procedures and make the whole situation easier, safer and less burdensome for citizens. It is a major and significant change that this law will now allow the identity cards to be issued to all Croatian citizens regardless of whether they have or do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. Certain legal changes regarding residence are now our citizens living outside Croatia's borders unable to raise new ID cards, we believe it is good to allow them to obtain ID cards. That identity card is not only an identification document, it means a certain connection with the country of origin and means facilitating our citizens and it is said that crossing borders within the EU has certain benefits for them. We see no reason and it is good that this law now allows them to get IDs, regardless of whether they have no registered residence in Croatia. In view of all of the great possibilities identified for speeding up the resolution of personal status issues, the acceleration of administrative, administrative and judicial procedures, the opening of a much easier and more efficient use of electronic signature, which enables and opens huge opportunities for trade and economic business, we strongly support the adoption of a new Law on the ID card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110702	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110703	Thank you. A fellow Pandek on my written inquiry to the Minister of Education why one of the municipalities in Brod-Posavina County school cannot issue e-reports, so there is no possibility, although 150 schools are in some pilot project. He replied that it was a matter of local self-government and teleoperator. So local self-government units should enable with a broadband teleoper. But where's the state? Why did the state not prescribe that a teleoperator commits to introducing broadband Internet in all municipalities, let alone for islands where it also relatively weak slag. The other thing is, we have a history of I.D. and other I.D.s. I had a military book where it was described since it was a black-and-white photo of 40 and some year ninth, eighth, it was a color of the eyes. The color of the eyes is immutable all the time, it's a data that can't be done, and then it's writing to the gentleman the gravitate color of the eyes. And now the picture of you, Mr. Photographer, gets a picture of you in color. Look at your I.D. Is there a picture of you in color or not? Is there any color on your I.D. with the photo? Do you know what color your eyes are? You don't know. There's plenty more.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110704	Drazen Pandek's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110705	Of course, technical preconditions are created, technical preconditions are better with the passing of years. The situation is far better than 5, 6, let alone 10 years ago, but I have to say that in the Republic of Croatia it's covered by a broadband internet that may be far better than in some even more developed countries, let's say even the United States. So there are some areas that are less covered but certainly that's what they're working on and the preconditions are being created. It all costs, of course, but there is an agenda to which almost the entire area will be covered, and these things that you have put forward can also be presented as a representative in some legislative proposal, so let's see how it goes because it's a matter that can't be given in a short time. Whether or not we can impose certain options on a specific operator that may also burden both the operator's budget and the state's budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110706	Nikola Vuljanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110707	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Pandek, I know that you must speak to the party in power as you speak, but it is amazing to me that you can truly believe in the syntagma, the phrase inter-resorial cooperation when you say it so loudly, and you know well that the database systems between the different resistors are incompatible, that the Ministry of Social Care data cannot be used by the Ministry and vice versa, and I don't know which ministry. They're incompatible and there's no such thing, it doesn't exist. And this is just another joke for people to get a little complicated. I don't know if this incompatibility is actually the result of the thieving or the sinister intent to complicate people's lives that they have to go from ministry to ministry, from counter to counter because they can't go to one place like a late minister said one stop shop long ago, that's where we stop and that's where we'll make the shop and then everything will be in our best order. Unfortunately, it hasn't happened or will happen this way. The problem is that a citizen has to prove something to the state all the time. I have to prove that I was born, I have to prove that I'm alive, I have to prove that I'm married, I have to prove that I'm old. I'll probably have to get up and prove I'm dead. I have to prove something to the state all the time. So whose country is this? Who's the boss? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110708	Drazen Pandek, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110709	Thank you. So I think if you want proof of inter-resorship cooperation contained in the proposal for this law, where it is said that this project will be integrated into a project of e-citizens that is essentially a project of the Ministry of Administration. And do we have to work more on this ministry connection, though, we always point out that and that would be good. It's not a problem that's since yesterday, it's a problem which is, so I'd say for decades and too much red tape and a problem of better cooperation and connecting those databases. But I really think there's a political will to do that. I'm saying this... that even proof is exactly what it's all about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm telling you and a series of colleagues is just saying so in some ways I wouldn't want to be too sharp but moaning, this isn't good, this isn't good, it's not good and there's no constructive proposal to improve as well. So this is exactly the suggestion that this is what you've been talking about and your colleagues before you set out to fix and improve the situation. That's exactly what I'm talking
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110710	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110711	Comrade Pandek, 280 thousand Croatian citizens have lost their ID. And now the key question of this new law is what is their status under this new law? And the next question and what do they get with this law? So they get citizens outside the Republic of Croatia with this law, they get IDs, and on the back of the card they have a residence. Is that Germany, America, Argentina, what they get? What are their rights? For we have said, "They shall receive the credit card, and they shall stand in the back of the dwelling." Will they be able to come to the polls and vote with that card? So that's the key question that needs to be answered when we're talking about this identity card. And the other thing, what I'm going to repeat to the unconscious, so when a personal identification number was introduced, it was supposed to serve as a communication instrument between the authorities of the state administration. So citizens just don't have to go anywhere anymore. It is only for them to submit a request and all data is collected through the central register and the citizen gets a positive or negative solution at the end. Why did it give up? Why isn't the information administration connected? And until that happens, we can't talk about the efficiency of the state administration at all. I mean, that's, then the question is, why is this all together? We meet some directives to bring people back like this, tomorrow we'll have a new driver's license, we have a Transport Safety Act after this agenda point. But the point of all this together is being put in place? Who will give an answer to the Croats who live, the second, third generation in Germany who lost their IDs, could not vote in the previous elections? What do they get with that card? Let's give that answer and then let's talk about the ID.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110712	Drazen Pandek, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110713	Thank you. So they get if they can answer briefly, the same rights as the other citizens in Croatia who will have that ID card. So the identity card is not the basis for acquiring any rights, it's an identification document. By now, of course, if he wants to sign an electronic contract with that card, he'll be able to do the same as me who's going to get that card. She'll be able to identify herself, and I'll be able to cross the border with her, obviously, and everything else remains the same as before. We're getting an I.D. He doesn't get special rights because his identity card isn't the basis for rights. I.D. All the benefits that the I.D. delivers will be obtained with an I.D. And then they'll get a certain link with the state where they're determined to be citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110714	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110715	My colleagues and fellow MPs. I think, in fact, that we should start with this and give recognition to the legislator of honesty that the main motive is not the citizens' interest in passing this law. Because they say nicely in the explanation: "The purpose of the project is to introduce an electronic ID card to encourage and monitor the development of the information society and the development of the state administration information system.". The priority issue is obviously not political here, it's not economic, it's not social, it's not psychological criteria, and that's why we have technological criteria as the first criteria for the proposed solutions. So it's plainly suggested that the card lasts 5 years because the chip manufacturers guarantee that these chips will last 5 years. If they gave a guarantee for 3 years then it would be 3 years and 20 years, then it would be 20 years. That's one thing. On the other hand, it is also said: "The ID is part of state information infrastructure.". It is not what counterpart Pandek said earlier that the identity card is actually an I.D., the basis for, not some special rights but an I.D., so it is not what some other European countries have done, that these documents should be free of charge, that citizens should not pay for that document. It's a clear thing if things like that were set up then things would be completely different. On the other hand, you have this issue of residence, so now it's said, well, we took 280 000 ID cards before people, and now we're going to give them back, but we're not giving them back the constitutional right to decide on their own residence what the Constitution guarantees to all citizens of the Croatian state. Therefore, we will have to wait for some constitutional action and the Constitutional Court's decision that Croatian citizens under the Constitution have the right to decide where their residence is, and where their residence is, regardless of how I am now cartooning, whether 6 months 1 day live in one place or elsewhere because it is today a criterion for determining their residence. It is not everywhere in the world and therefore other rights are being exercised, the right to vote, the right to vote, and therefore even BiH has what Croatia does not have, and I do not think it is appropriate to compare it with their solutions. Furthermore, we have one question again from a technological point of view if you want to introduce how much one system of chips unconnected with contact chips because you have one set of documents that have these unconnected. This is where they're going to need that contact chip, as it's already called, which is again a matter of technology. And we didn't get the right answer why we have to have these two systems, whether it's the future or not, since European solutions are still different, and we don't know why we've defined ourselves for this system. Speaking of which, this bill does not provide for any costs. From this already, if we even want to follow that technologically this opinion, then we must be aware that here are the unpredictable costs of applying these solutions. We simply do not know in what situations, in which all institutions will need to introduce that equipment so that these systems can be used. Furthermore, there's been some kind of anticipation, and now it's been said of years. So now he says, well, after 65 years, we don't count on them anymore, so they don't have to change and take. But you have, if we already want to counter-cipe some events, we already have indications that the working life should be extended to 67 years.... Then why is it not predicted that this limit is 67 years or another, and why does it say that these elders will not need that certificate or signature identification? I think it's a particular problem that's been solved from a technological point of view, and it hasn't narrowed down the dimension of both social and psychological and political if you want. On the other hand, I think that some have already warned about one fact, so at 18 you have to have a card, before that you can have, but then there's the same problem of issuing these ID cards for people less than 18 years old on these unsolved family occasions. And what's a solution or what's going to be an implicit solution, is that in all those cases, which is most of them, we haven't been able to get numerical data, to assume that it's moving if not to a 10-digit number of what's at least a minimum percent, so we're going to be harassing all those other people that both parents have to come out of these cards, instead of sitting down and thinking about it, has respected the clear point of view of the attorney for children. But there's also a more intelligent way to solve this issue so that all those cases that are registered as social cases have to be registered somewhere and that, based on these databases, things can get beaten up. It has already been said here and warned of one fact, that even in these conventional solutions and photocopies of personal documents can be abused and abused in various ways. In this identification certificate and signed certificate, these abuses will likely be much more because they will be able to perform not only physically but remotely, onlinely, but we do not have these information protection strategies. It is not known how this can be protected, it is not known what the sanctioning procedures will be, and it is not known what these centres and monitoring centres will be or will be to prevent such abuses. It's a clear thing. Another problem, but in this case, when adopting this law should be related to all these other changes, we should announce all these other changes, and the clear thing is that they are neither far nor in sight, no matter what we have sought through these committees, and in the reports of the competent institutions we have never received a clearer answer to what this is about and how long it will take. Therefore, for all of these reasons on one hand, we clearly need to move, but we do not need a shift that will go through the method of trying and making mistakes. Therefore, there is no reason for this urgent procedure, only if we do not want this law to be in a permanent, urgent procedure and that every few months we discuss it with the additions of those things that have already been discussed here by a number of previous speakers, the MPs have warned and are simply not here. So as far as I'm concerned, we can't accept this kind of unthinkable, unarranged law in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110716	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110717	Dear Comrade Tudjman, I think here you have completed your speech by speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club that, behold, you will not support this proposal, that this is an unsettled proposal. I don't know who bothers that this proposal is finally fixed, he's introducing order. It introduces order, and it is in the interest of citizens, that citizens really be participants in rights and duties, not subjects. Therefore, when you say that there is a government finally with this proposal in the very explanation of the text, it says it recognises that the aim of this bill is not the citizens' interest, but rather the improvement of public service technology. So what do public service and technology do? Exactly what we have always said, that they are indeed, that the citizen does not come a hundred times to one place and that will in any case improve, so not only these mutual, civil departments but, civil relations and their civil status, but also the development of the economy. When you say that it violates the constitutional right of citizens to decide for themselves their residence. It's not being broken, but abuse is being prevented because it was common for us to choose a place to live. My place is in Rijeka, and I live in Zadar. You had it for different reasons, all the reasons were, and that's what we're all witnessing these abuses. I'm not going to tell you right now, perhaps to mention the already infamous case of Makarska and that famous home number where so many people have been reported that people are shallow beings wouldn't all stop. Because it doesn't mean you're free to choose a place to live, not live here. Feel free to settle anywhere, where you have your own property or you don't, but it means living here. And indeed it is in every courteous land so There's been an interview with a famous Hollywood couple who moved to northern Europe in the cold because they say we've been living here for six months one day because we have a cheaper, lower tax. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110718	Thank you very much. Miroslav Tudjman, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110719	My colleague Antičević, I have been in this field of information science for 40 and more years and all this history of this technology is going because users have adapted to the technologies of the whole series, how technologies have developed to only later acknowledge that the interests of users should be respected, not subordinated... And this is the same case, and I've quoted you as the reason for the law, I didn't invent it, and I didn't put the citizen in the first place, and to put it in place then you'd see that all of these, if you had a ID card and you had to run the housekeeper or send you out of one office to get a confirmation in another office that exists already in the state administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, that argument does not stand for you. As far as residence is concerned, it is a constitutional right where I will live and you will see what will happen now that a property tax is introduced for Croatian citizens who live temporarily or for a long time abroad, what kind of disorder will arise here, what illogicalness will arise. On the other hand, if you already respect the side of the experience, then admit that an American lives wherever he lives, wherever the world is living for his president of his country, whether he lives there for half a year or 30 years. It's a clear point that it's not questionable, but here with this I.D., it's making it impossible again. So you erased as many as 280 thousand people from the voter list. Therefore, things are much more complicated than ideology and demagogy can interpret.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110720	Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110721	Thank you. My dear colleague, you have therefore said in your statement that this law is not in the interests of citizens or that it is not in the interests of citizens, but in order to build an information structure. Well, building an information structure is in the citizens' interest right now. A series of MPs talked about how there were no pooled databases, how it was necessary to carry piles of paper, how the paperwork was large and unnecessary, there was red tape. Well, just building information infrastructure is one of the tools that all of these, all of these bad things are going to be removed, so we're going to be able to unite everything in one place, where we're going to be able to very easily identify ourselves, do business, do a series of things online where we won't have to come in person, we won't have to carry a bunch of paper. So, a series of benefits, a series of extenuating circumstances will bring about the construction of an information structure and one of the conditions for building an information structure is exactly the adoption of this law. And as for citizens who are over 65, so they won't have to renew the certificate, they will be able to renew. So he won't just have to. It's an extenuating circumstance. He won't have to, so he'll be able to, and it's not about the years. So I don't think that's the reason for the criticism, I've even said that's the reason for the commendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110722	Miroslav Tudjman, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110723	Thank you. My colleague Pandek, I said that the primary motive is technology and a technical way of thinking. This is circumstantial. And that it should be turned around to make the primary motive a citizen's interest. And in order for the primary motive to be the interest of citizens, then it should be one decision before, which is that the state and the state administration should use the databases, that they should be networked, that they should be integrated, that they should be defined using methods of protection, etc., and not facelessly, that will happen. Nothing's going to happen if it's not defined before that. And these are just wishful desires. Therefore, no one is against it, and at least I am against it, but so much we do know and we all need to know that in this way if any other assumptions don't define things will continue to work we had a ID card with a chip or without a chip we're going to run from one office to another, from one ministry to another ministry to collect documents that the state or state administration already has. That's what I'm talking about. If we change that logic and say that a man doesn't have to, when someone tells me that I have to bring him a housewife, that I have to bring him the owner's list of this or that and the state has it that we can say it, and I won't because the law doesn't ask for it, it doesn't oblige me, then there's going to be a change. And that's a change, not technical or technological, but it's a change in the heads of us here so government and everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110724	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110725	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Comrade Tudjman, you have warned of many things that are unsaid by this draft law that goes according to emergency procedure. You were right, and I think that even the legislators, if they followed your exposure, could change a lot of things or withdraw this law from the parliamentary procedure. I just got a message from one of our fellow citizens from a country where the embassy today asked him if he wanted a classic ID card or an electronic card worth 10 years, and for those up to 24 years it's worth six years. What you're talking about is the development of an information society, that this contributes to development or should contribute to the development of an information society. The fact is that the MUP states that in 2014 there was an increase in computer crime by 54% in its report. The special danger is the appearance of forms of unauthorized access to the computer systems of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to the ministries, thus making it impossible for citizens to access online, especially in the case of e-enrolment in high school and unauthorized access to computer systems. What exactly is going to happen in the event of identity theft? That's not what you're talking about. On the other hand, this law does not write and has no additional analysis of how many Croatian citizens have access to the Internet or those who have access in households, or how many of them can be used online at all and how much is this spatial availability of the internet network in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And when you were talking about penalties for natural persons they were scheduled from 3000 to 4500 kuna and we know when we talked about the residence law last year, or about the whereabouts of what number of old and powerless persons were who couldn't apply for a ID card in time, which is actually going to happen to them in this case if they don't instruct the request for a new ID card in time. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110726	Miroslav Tudjman, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110727	Well, colleague Babic, this first part you said, these examples, concerns what we don't have, and that's the National Information Strategy that should have that information security principle among other things. As for this second part, identity theft, it will become a more dominant form of crime in us, given the development of technology, the development of opportunities and technical opportunities, but the participants will not only be Croatian citizens, whether yours, mine or anyone else's identity will be able to steal someone from any side of the world. You have, today it has already been stated here that you have an example of identity theft and procurement with these operators so the state is practically powerless and is not able to find an answer to how to punish, but each individual damage has to prove that someone else stole his identity and that's still in some old technologies because we heard it was photocopy IDs. What happens here when someone accidentally or intentionally, or thanks to their team, steals someone's PIN so they can manipulate those identities? And if it's just for this, then it'll probably be 3,000 to 4,000 kuna and it'll be all. I'm just saying, I'm just warning that the dimensions of this are simply the problems that are ahead of us and the introduction of technologies like this, and that neither is being prepared nor given thought, nor is it imagined.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110728	On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110729	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy. The identity card is a personal document issued by the state and used to identify citizens. An international agreement may serve the identity card instead of a passport. In the EU, the identity card has been issued in any country as well as in all other EU countries. The name and last name of the person, sex, birth date and permanent residence are written on the card, and according to the new proposal, the electronic card has been deposited both the OIB and the electronic signature. The identity card is required to have a person over the age of 18 who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia, and the right to an ID card also has children under 18 years of age. Croatian citizens who have residence abroad also have the right to have an identity card. A full-time person with a ID card and a person over the age of 18 who has not issued an identity card is fined with a fine for a misdemeanour. That would be the shortest way to explain the identity card. Another important information related to the ID proposal for a new ID card, which is the OIB. Namely, the introduction of the OIB into the ID card and now the electronic identity card finally leads to the full application of the OIB. In the OIB Act, a personal identification number is a permanent identification code of the personal identification number that users of the personal identification number use in official records in daily work and in data exchange. The OIB shall be awarded by the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Tax Administration, and the identity card of the Ministry of Finance. In a debate at the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities related to the Law in question, I said that citizens do not trust the state, that the state does not trust the citizens. The board president corrects me with an argument that citizens trust the state as soon as they want it and as soon as they have it. I was wrong to say, and I am clearly wrongly corrected. In fact, the citizens have nowhere else to go, they have a state because they have to have it. It's the only form of life-saving in an orderly society, it's not about faith or infidelity, it's about necessity. And in principle, it is a trusted state institutions against citizens and vice-citizens against state institutions. There is no trust of state institutions in the face of citizens, nor is there great trust of citizens in the face of state institutions. They say your personal institution. I believe neither I nor any other I.D. is generally needed. No one's going to legitimize themselves. She needs state institutions to believe I am. Because it would be enough for me to say a loud and clear name and last name, but the state doesn't believe me, she's asking for confirmation of my words through a written document that the state has verified. It is clear that, over the last few centuries, to date, it is a common relationship between the state and citizens and citizens everywhere in the world. The elected representatives, or government, no matter how liberal they are, have this constant tendency to reduce citizens' rights, and by nature citizens are resisting it. With the help of the representative body, the government is constantly trying to impose regulations governing relations in society but with a constant tendency to facilitate and simplify regulations and procedures. It also seems to make it easier for citizens to deal with the state, but rarely at the expense of simplicity for citizens and rarely at the expense of civil freedoms. Today's electronic age is even narrowing down citizens' personal freedoms, and there is more and more anonymity and intimacy. Today, the country is growing big brown, above every citizen or citizen. With one computer click of the state today, it has virtually everything, and it can have all the information about each of us, from the name, last name, where we live, who we live with, whether we're married, how many children we have, whether we own real estate, moving property, whether we're punished or not, whether we have a company, what and how much, if we're neatly paid communal fees, taxes, whether we've paid parking tickets, etc. With the introduction and full implementation of the OIB, universal computing or information, information comes at a time when there will be no more personal secrets. In this constant struggle of government and citizens, it is always the citizens who give in, we citizens agree to such a relationship with the state, i.e. with the authorities, because a)we have nowhere to go and b)simply simplifies our daily lives. And that is why we always welcome the innovations that distance us from the state and reduce our direct contact with it or with its institutions, no matter how much and what intimacy we give up. Contemporary electronic age and modern administrative communication within state institutions make life simpler for all of us, and regardless of all the comments today, communication with state institutions is simpler than ever. The text of the bill reads "This law is a normative framework for the implementation of projects for the introduction of electronic ID cards for Croatian citizens". The introduction of an electronic identity card would encourage the development of public services and enable the electronic operation of economic operators and the electronic communication of economic operators with the authorities of the state administration to facilitate and accelerate the launch of economic activities. The introduction of an electronic identity card and would facilitate communication with the authorities of the state administration and local self-government without the need to enter the competent institutions in order to exercise individual rights. The identity card will contain the electronic data carrier on which the data printed in the visual area of the card will be stored, and the identity card on the chip will be able to store one or two certificates and this identification and signature certificate. The identification certificate will be used to ensure the electronic confirmation of the identity of the person to whom the identity card and authentication has been issued for access to electronic services, and... the certificate of support for advanced electronic signature which has the same legal power and replaces the power signature in accordance with the law which regulates the electronic signature. Personal ID will be mandatory for Croatian citizens over the age of 18 with registered residence in the Republic of Croatia. A Croatian citizen residing in the Republic of Croatia under 18 will not have to have a ID card, but will be able to succeed through parents as legal agents because they will be able to confirm their identity in various procedures related to primary and secondary education, and will also be able to serve as a travel document for the crossing of the EU state borders and other countries that allow it. Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of their years of life, will not have to have a Croatian ID card, but will be able to come out if they want to. Therefore, by adopting this law, they will receive a modern electronic identity card that will facilitate their communication with the authorities of the state administration between them. It is important for the public to say that it is not necessary to draw out new cards until the expiry of the old. It should also be noted that Article 6(3) states that a personal identity card bearing the OI ID mark in the Braille letter will be issued on the request of the person to whom the identity card is issued. The HNS club, Liberal Democrats, will submit an amendment to this article wishing that all issued ID cards bear the OI mark on Braille's letter. In addition to this proposed amendment, the HNS Club of Liberal Democrats will accept the Law on ID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110730	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110731	You reminded your colleague Blažeković of the OIB. So five years after it was due to complete that implementation of the OIB, he was unfortunately split into many parts. The OIB was to serve as a basis for many reforms. On the one hand, he should have given an immovable blood count to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, all the companies, and based on that it should have been a basis for many rights where he has, let's be honest with you, many of those who have no rights, so that's on one side. On the other hand, given that due to the OIB, all state institutions were to connect then the logical thing was to form that central register and whoever submitted any request to the institution to which it was submitted will look at these data and under the precisely prescribed protocol from the central register and the citizen gets a positive or negative solution. Also, with the introduction of the OIB, the idea was also to discuss with the then Headship of the Ministry of Health with the Head of the Ministry of Health that new IDs should be meant within 2 or 3 years through new possibilities of technical and technological to install the chip for both driver's license and health card so that citizens should not carry 4.5 cards with them. Unfortunately, we are now technologically changing only one document. Unfortunately, the OIB is neither the main instrument for fighting corruption, yet everyone started working in their own backyard some of their own rules, yet the citizen must go from institution to institution to prove that they are who they are. And when we talk about any of this law, this is not a criticism to the MUP now because of the ID card, but a criticism to all those who had to participate in the process, however, this process has been halted obviously by some false moral size being quite afraid that it is functioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110732	Boris Blazekovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110733	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Shucker, as far as the OIB itself is concerned, because I really think it's important and I think that, but I would disagree with you if the process had been stopped. I think something's slowed down, you're right, but it's slowed down by my belief and knowledge due to the process of editing a lot of other segments within the state. And I'm a sign that both the intensity and the desire to introduce the OIB into the identity card itself is talking about how that process certainly didn't stop because if it had stopped then it wouldn't have been introduced into this new electronic identity card. That's what I said in my discussion of the Croatian Liberal Democrats, which is that it's important and it says that this leads to the final lead to the full application of the OIB. In what time, we don't know. The sooner the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110734	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110735	Your colleague Blažekovic said that the state has become Big Brother, has all the information about its citizens and today our procedure is simpler than ever. We remember being introduced by JMBG, so we had an OIB, so we had one card, so we changed other cards, and if you listened carefully in front of our club Mr. Tudjman if the state really wants to be this Big Brother and we have all the information about their citizens and if citizens have to work new IDs then let the state pay them anyway because they already paid you the same citizens. But it seems to me this whole story and the adoption of new laws like this when a man wants to buy a car and buy it in pieces in a way that buys a car from a table, a golf door, a Citroen wheel, then at the end when he goes to put it together, it turns out to be something similar to what was drawn from Alan Ford. The absurdities that happened here, which is not absurd, remember that when you apply... you have to deliver a birth certificate not older than 6 months as if you were born every 6 months or what is not absurd if you have to perform a medical examination according to the law that we have passed here in the Assembly of Holding and Wearing Weapons, the same medical examination is not worth your driver's license or any job and is the same procedure, the same, the only difference that this medical examination costs from 350 to 550 depending on which doctor you perform it. So if it goes to the burden of citizens and is being introduced because of the need of the state, then we think that part of the story is wrong. And especially in this way, when it goes to a partial determination and laws to prescribe certain procedures and then ultimately they are all incompatible. And then we get into a situation where it's not exactly like you said today's procedure is simpler than ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110736	Boris Blazekovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110737	Thank you very much. So I am still, by my deep knowledge and life in this country, saying that today's procedure for issuing any document is simpler than it's ever been before, especially in some segments where it's been terribly complicated, difficult, long waiting, etc. One of the things is, let's say, a building permit, I'm going to mention as one of the cardinal examples that we all know about. And indeed it is, this procedure thanks not so much to the state's desire and the state's institutions as to technology itself. The technology itself has imposed this simplicity of overall procedures. Fortunately, I have the impression in this period that this government wants and is trying to make the most of these technologies, it's not working out enough, everyone would want it to be a much faster process but there are certain objective and subjective obstacles and it goes a little easier than we would want it to be and what it is in the developed world. As far as the big brownie is concerned, it's something I'm personally against, I'm maximum against any involvement of the state in our personal lives. But like all other citizens, I agree to such situations that my country enters deeper into my privacy than I would personally consider to be allowed because of some kind of pragmatism, because of some opportunism, the simplicity of communication with that state to make it easier to get a manual, any hospital findings, any kind of permit, any kind of document and we're still good, we're still in Croatia as good as it looks in some other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110738	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110739	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. This Privacy Card Act, which was sent to the Croatian Assembly in the emergency procedure, would be good if it recanted immediately from the emergency procedure. That would be best given the remarks I'm about to make. This legislative proposal, under No 1., authorises the issuing of public documents by competent authorities of other countries and these public documents are used to issue IDs in Croatia. Therefore, if a national of the Republic of Croatia who has a residence outside the Republic of Croatia, say Travnik or Banja Luka, does not matter, he is asking for a personal ID card in Croatia and is asking for it to be issued by the public body, so the institutions, either so-called. Republika Srpska or the Federation of Local Self-Government Units in those municipalities in that country request that public correction. It's proof of residence, I'm sorry. To believe in the well-meaning, kindness of these public bodies in these municipalities that are therefore outside the Republic of Croatia and to believe that it is not God-knowing what to do mainly if these people, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, for the purpose of seeking this document on residence, indicate obtaining an identity card in Croatia. This is very likely, given the relationship of some in other countries with Croats who live there, we will get written off from Bosnia and Herzegovina, a new number written off from Bosnia and Herzegovina, I speak primarily now, although there are other countries thanking God, so we will be in a position that given the number of those written down, we may soon reach the 8% of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and actually reach the national minority status in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why would the public documents needed to issue an identity card in Croatia and the evidence of this would not be issued, prepared and done in the Republic of Croatia? Why can't someone come to, I don't know, the Zagreb Police Department and tell my residence is in Travnik and have his ID card issued? So that's one thing. It's another thing. Article 4 of this same legislative proposal states that the period of validity of the identity cards and certificates contained in it is 5 years. What's with the five-year deadline? Wouldn't it be good given the costs that are here, someone calculated about 200 kuna that this same ID card is worth 10 years? What changes in 5 and what in 10 years? Is it some kind of big change after five years or is it a wish that someone spends 200 kunas again after five years and that someone should say and make money making new cards? Or is this about the state's mistrust in its own citizens? From the fact that some public documents, mainly home offices, count only the validity of 6 months since the publication or verification by the public notary, so only 6 months, we are talking about a copy of the Mother's Book of Born, Married, etc. What we need in our daily lives, like a coma. And then we go again after six months if we need something else at the public notebook to spend the new 50 kunas, 48.50 as it goes, to get a new document. About how many times we've certified the housekeeper and the issue of any other documents, about the fact that the OIB is as one thing to say is a universal number, a means that could almost cover everything, mainly in terms of property-legal relations, wages, tax administrations, etc., where everything could not be used, but unfortunately it hasn't yet come to life. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the database systems according to certain ministries as said by a colleague are not compatible so you cannot use and use the data from one ministry for purposes or if you have some private business to do in another ministry but you must go all the way on foot or from the beginning, however you will, extract documents stored in the base of another ministry, and we are talking about electronic connection, we are talking about using electronic, starting with that student, student testimony and so on. I've already said here that e-reports can only have schools that are in the broadband area. And how many municipalities and cities in Croatia out of 556 have no broadband internet. The same goes for this new ID or e-card, I.D. It says teleopers and local self-government units are responsible. And what about the state? Why does the state not prescribe a teleoperator that it is mandatory precisely because of the use of e-documents and these more opportunities that we are given to provide on the territory of the entire Croatian broadband Internet, to condition their business with this. There is no such thing, there is no coercion or coercion. So these permanent or very frequent ID changes, I took out my I.D. after two months, came a new one that has what they say is European, it's not electronic, it's European, so I don't have it, so I don't know how much I'm damaged or not, but now here's my chance to get out of this new law by emergency procedure, and this one that I have, I have, I have two years of everything. I don't have to take it out, of course, it says in the law here, and maybe I'll settle for 65 years soon, so I won't have to take out this I.D. anymore. But if the agency doesn't write here who's going to make new IDs, we know it's the Agency for Commercial Activity, and we know it's a state-owned agency. We also know who the head of the agency is, Mr. former member of the Police Directorate, so I don't think I'd like to doubt anyone's honesty, but here we are now passing the law by emergency procedure. The charmingness of the use of personal data that we have in our practice, which we meet daily, starting with what I said, I don't know what document to pay for 1 kuna in order for the bank to earn 5, so the document is not valid if the certificate is older than 6 months. In addition, I had the opportunity to be stopped in the police building and asked my child was 17 when she started going to the car school, needed a medical certificate but it was six months ago as he passed and now it's no longer valid for him, she has to retake a new medical certificate from 300 to 550 kuna, as with the doctor. So we have one polypragmasy, the application of regulations with different treatments, we have one colourfulness of the use of personal data, and I have no doubt in the legislator's intention that he actually wanted to cover all of this here is perhaps one solution and the Law on the ID card, but I think that the interference as I said at the beginning of the competent authorities of other countries for issuing IDs is completely wrong, the competent authorities of another country or other countries in which Croats live and who have Croatian citizenship. So it is considered a public right that it betrays another state to then go to achieve a personal card in the Republic of Croatia, so that our people depend on the competent authorities of another country, and we know and we have complaints and everything else about people in other countries. I'm not saying they're all like that, but there are cases like this, and there will certainly be plenty of those who will be as I said they were written off from those other countries. The HDSSB Club, according to Mr Djurović, has also tabled an amendment to Article 4(1) where we propose that the period of validity of the identity cards and certificates be 10 years and that is what is minimal in relation to our debates today, the requests in connection with the Law on IDs, but it is indeed a concern for the issue of the Croatian document that it is necessary to obtain confirmation of the competent authority of another country. I wonder if there are any other countries that have prescribed such a way of obtaining personal documents as here in this legislative proposal. But I do think that, I hope that Mr., excuse me, the Deputy Minister will consider it and whether our administration and police administration can bring such things into connection with the residence of citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia. Why can't I make a statement to our Home Office or I don't know the state administration, etc. where that would be valid. Or a statement certified by a public notary in Croatia, I don't think I know. I've said many more things in replicas so that those main remarks I wanted to make I said here and I don't think that's why the HDSSB club can't be for this kind of legal proposal, and I think it would be a good idea to pull it back and fix it for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110740	Comrade Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110741	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Grubisic, you have warned of this fact that those Croatian citizens living outside Croatia need some kind of confirmation or document from another country. It is not only this case with Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is also a problem with Croatian citizens living in countries that do not recognise dual citizenship. Therefore, there may be conflicts of interest in this case and conflict of interest and that our citizens must then decide on one or another citizenship. However, this is about the principle of whether the Croatian state trusts Croatian citizens or does not trust and that is what we have tried and warned in our debate. You, if you apply, someone if they apply for American citizenship or any American document there is a provision if they give a false statement that document or that decision will be annulled after five, ten, or fifty years. Therefore, here should be the principle not to run to the public notary, but to the one who seeks a card and does not live in Croatia if it is already so that his statement is valid. And in the case of a fake or something, it'll cancel out if it has any other conjecture. And that is the principle that the legislator, or legislator, should adhere to.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110742	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110743	Thank you very much. Comrade Tudjman, I think we're on the same line, so the thing is trust with our own citizens, citizens. So I don't know why these same citizens wouldn't prove their place of residence, so to the authorities and bodies of the state of Croatia. And not to depend, depend on whatever you want on bodies from other countries. And I'm saying we know exactly what relationships are, what the situation is in some, I wouldn't want to call anyone here. In addition, you know the situation in Germany, that Germany does not allow whether you are a citizen of Germany or not, not dual citizenship. So, we have situations where, in fact, as was the situation with the Law on the List of Voters, which expelled several hundred thousand voters in the Republic of Croatia, the European Union based on this document reduced the number of representatives of the Republic of Croatia in the European Parliament from 12 to 11. No one's talking about that damage, no one cares, and that's how it goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110744	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110745	My colleague Grubisic, in your debate, and you have troubled the proposal that it is only worth five years. It's really absurd. We're introducing space IDs that will be worth twice as much as before. But when you link it to that provision in Articles 2 and 12, if I'm not mistaken who's going to make IDs and IDs and electronic signatures or certificates, you can't get the impression that it's actually about setting up laws for the possibility of a legal person in state property that we still don't know who she is. I asked who that was who was going to do it? The second, neither in law nor in the motion to answer the question of the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for the theft of identities and data from these certificates or abuses. We now have situations and the problem of citizens who are, whose identities are... with a simple photocopy of your ID card, and imagine an electronic signature. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And again, we will be in a situation of opening up a new crime zone from which the state will wash its hands like Pontius Pilate, and the citizens will later be in trouble. If at this time there is no one in Croatia who can produce chips that will hold ten years with certificates, then the most just solution to the citizens of this country is that the identity cards are not paid, that we do not force them to buy new IDs every five years to prove that they exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110746	Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110747	It is convenient that this last sentence and part of the sentence, yes, sometimes people have proved that they exist not only in our country of Croatia but also in some other countries. You must send confirmation that you are alive. But speaking of these chips on the cards, I'm not saying that those to whom the chip is destroyed, so it could be done, that those to whom the chip has been destroyed, to whom it has become invalid, where the chip cannot be recognized on these devices that they must and therefore need a new ID card. But if she's with most citizens she's expected quite certain that this chip I say lasts for 10 years and there's no need to change every five years. It's really like that, I even listed the agency that does those things. Maybe it's not that, I don't know, I don't want to suspect anyone, and I don't want to doubt whether or not there are some things I can read between the lines. So it's not unclear who it's about. And as for personal data, well, you see, we have such a safe AZOP that it works so fantasticly and it worked so that it's trying to hide those data, some, mostly, about property cards, right? So we don't need to worry, we have an agency that takes care of it, we can sleep peacefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110748	Ivan Drmic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110749	Here's an esteemed colleague I'd like to say at first that I agree with your entire debate, but you've forgotten something. You forgot to ask one question to the promoter because we talked earlier, so I would take this opportunity to remind you. The same is true of the duration of the identity card. I think, just like you, that five years is too short for the duration of one document that we use most often in this country and I would say my opinion that this is another robbery of Croatian citizens. The only thing we felt that we had become members of the EU are changes in documents, Croatian registration plates and all that puts the citizens of this country at an additional cost. But you forgot, as I said, to ask one important question to the legislator of this law. Are these the chips that we have obviously lasted for five years, and in other normal countries that care about their citizens take ten years or more, have they already been purchased, have they already existed, have public procurement passed, and have there been any supplies of these chips? If he's so interested in who bought it and who bought it, I'd dare say with a defect. Because it's simply incomprehensible to me that in Germany one chip can last ten years and in other Western European countries, however, in our practice and so far, we always find some countries that are doing the same radically, in this case Lithuania, Finland, I don't know if you've counted any more, so where that hasn't been well solved. We always find one such land, so we compare ourselves to it. Compare yourself with Germany, compare yourself with Austria, compare yourself with Switzerland, and finally come to us with some positive experience from this EU. If these chips aren't obtained, why don't we get them better? In this country, there's a crisis, people don't have bread, they dig through garbage cans, and we make them take out their cards again every five years and throw themselves at extra expense. So today, passports for newborn children are worth 5 years, although these children are well-changed. So unfortunately, I'd just like to conclude that our practice in the country is to buy worse chips and pay them more than in the Western countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110750	Time. Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110751	Thank you very much. Excellent replica by Drmic. Remember these license plates of our cars that had a red and blue cube, where the designer at the competition was worth about 40, 50 thousand kuna as the first prize won, it was neatly paid off, red blue all in white, red, blue, white, beautiful Croatian registration. In Serbia, too, you wouldn't be ashamed of such registration marks, would you? As far as this question of yours is concerned whether the chips are obtained, I don't know that I guess the deputy minister and that agency or I don't know a state-owned company that's likely to, I can't know that kind of thing, that's going to carry out these new chipped IDs. Maybe they'd better chip us for an ear like they're chipping some other living organisms, huh? Remember, too, the purchase of a vaccine from Novoartis Swiss where we bought a million doses of vaccines, some from the former government, and only 70,000 were spent, and all of this was expensive, something was paid back, but a large portion was paid, and it was never used, but it was over a year and it was dumped. So there are a lot of things, so then master plan of Croatian hospitals also paid for foreigners never implemented master plan but 200 thousand euros or a million and a half kuna was thrown into the wind. There's as much money in the wind as you want. So nothing surprising from this government and unfortunately not in this country. And look at the crowds, if you've ever pulled out, I mean, I know you've been pulling out some papers, going to the police department where it's being betrayed, so there's lines and rows of people waiting for guns, IDs, passports, general traffic, right? And it's like that all the time. If we do this for five years, we'll get even more crowded.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110752	Time. Comrades, look at the screen when time passes. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110753	Thank you. Now the cost of extending your ID is about 50 kuna plus the photo you need to make and the forms to fill out. It is expected that this ID card will be more expensive because it costs more than old in its own production and now, even now, I think we must take care of the interest of Croatian citizens and not actually collect their lives to those decisions that we make, and our state administration and how we will spend some measure adapting to Croatian citizens, not Croatian citizens to our technical opportunities. And if we don't have technical opportunities then let's not introduce this and, like this, the largest number of EU Member States has not introduced such identity cards, everyone still has these standard and normal functions. Therefore, our amendment is actually aimed at the interest of Croatian citizens. As the Croatian Parliament and the MUP, we should take care of it in the first place. So let the AKD that is doing a great job of making all these documents be adapted technically when it can be adapted and then go into that system of construction and all documents should try to take as long as possible for Croatian citizens to have to pay as little as possible. It's the same thing with passports, and ID cards, and driver's licenses and all the other paperwork. I think that we are invited to make life easier and cheaper for citizens, not to make it even more difficult for them, and to make it more difficult for them, and to make it more difficult for them to walk and pay more and more for the cost of making all these documents. And I think that, in fact, it would not be the answer of the Minister of Interior's technical capabilities, but rather his job is to find technical opportunities to do this in the interest of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110754	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110755	Thank you very much. Col. Djurović, you have already explained your amendment, so I agree, of course, that because of the situation in which the vast majority of Croatian citizens, the poverty that the government is really somewhat unnecessary if we are already making new cards that only last 5 years. And then again after 5 years the same costs etc. Many countries in the EU have not contributed to such a job at all, nor have it been a priority or a need for them. I think we should consider whether we need it in Croatia as well. And as for the photo, remember when you pulled your ID card they told you don't smile, you need to be scrawny for the photo on your ID card. I don't think anyone needs to be smiled in Croatia today, almost anyone should be told that there is no smile in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110756	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110757	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague above all I consider, of course I will vote in favour of this bill and I think it really needs to be brought in by emergency procedure. He's in the interest of the citizens. For the first time, the state really wants to fix the situation, it wants to be an equal partner to its citizens, it really wants to see from citizens those persons, in citizens to see those persons who are aware of their rights, as well as their duties, and not their manipulations, as so far as they were at work on different grounds, by different rights, but also by duties. We've been watching each other for the past few years, and decades where it's been manipulated by citizens, whether or not they're going to exercise their right, so he couldn't achieve his right to belong, but he could get some right that doesn't belong to him. And that's how we made people subject to a particular political group. So this bill really puts things in the right place as a clean bill. And it is in the interest of citizens of their daily activities, first of all, to all those criticisms that were directed to the whole, to extract a whole series of papers, that this might be necessary just until such an electronic identity card is obtained. But in such a way, as soon as it is obtained, it makes it easier to communicate to a citizen with the authorities of the state administration, local self-government without having to enter the competent institutions in order to exercise individual rights, but also because of their own responsibilities vis-à-vis public authorities. But not only for citizens, not citizens as individuals, but also for electronic business of economic operators and electronic communication of economic operators with state administration bodies, which is of paramount importance to us. And many citizens call and greet exactly that's what he sees, in this second thing I've said, they just see their ability and their advantage. Today it was about how many citizens, here's how this government wiped out people who didn't report their residence and lost their ID. Is it responsible for the conduct of those representatives who oppose the Law on the identity card and the Law on residence? What were the citizens obliged to say? But they seem to be calling them, so let the law say so. Is that legality or is that the legality that we've already seen in the past? So the citizens were called by the authorities under the law, not only should they know it, but the authorities also invite them to report their residence. Those who did not respond were erased. I am not going to talk about this number now as much as previously manipulated, therefore for different purposes, especially not only in the electoral but in each other, in the property, so the rights were given to those who should because of the lack of money because they got the ones they didn't need. Is that what we're gonna talk about? This is what we end up with, but now and these people, so can't be a citizen without a ID card, we allow him right here if he doesn't need a residence in his ID card, but the state needs to know where its citizens are staying and the citizens are obliged to report their residence where they live, not where they want to be or where their tax is lower, or where they get travel orders. It is not good for that representative who teaches citizens in such a way; it does not do them any good. And that doesn't work, because of their interest, so that something easier can pass. Because of my own interest, I fought for it, so you owe me, and then you vote, and you bring in another 50 or 100 people who got those rights that don't belong to them. And that is why I welcome the adoption of this bill. Croatia is an advanced country in Croatia. The truth is they're the critics who talk about the possibility of abuse. And what, unfortunately, was the right not abused? Of course, when it's in electronic form that maybe it's simpler, maybe it's not ordinary mortal that it doesn't seem to be, but here are the experts that are always used to abuse, steal identity, abuse the right. In the end, we have well regulated all types of cybercrime in the amendments to the Penal Code, but obviously there is a problem in practice and we need to see what especially the MUP can do in preventing but also detecting and very dangerous types of crime. But these same critics who talk about it don't talk about how ordinary papers were manipulated especially by secret services. We know they were a service, they were heavy abuses to deal with political non-equals, so ordinary paper was misused, corresponded, sent to the media. We're not talking about politicians, we're trying to forget it, but with the press, too. However, I remind those speakers of that period. I'd love to talk about it if they had anything else to say on that subject, but I'd like them not to answer on that subject anymore. As regards the provision of Article 10, we really see the particular interest and concern of the ministry itself, then the entire government with regard to child abuse, especially those of parents who have common parental care, for which perhaps the welfare centre does not know what their relations are and what can be broken over the child. We are witnessing that these are not common cases, but a relatively small number of residents are relatively and often these mutual accounts happen through the child. Kidnapping, going to another country, the whole provision of Article 10 is concentrated just to make it impossible. However, it is justified to criticise those who say that families who have proper relations, who jointly care for a child, are to do so because of those who do not, who abuse to punish them all in such a way. So let's just think about not giving up the protection of that child, those children who have such parents who care about them, and they're balling each other, and all of them at the expense of the child so that they can abuse his IDs to take the child away, take him somewhere unknown, and on the other hand, to protect most of the children and their parents who are daily exposed to fighting for survival, each hour is precious, not to spend time with these special consents, if... one has to agree or both to leave. Today we also see with private employers that it is hard to take the day off, of course it does not seem every day, but for the second time they have to go to the doctor, for the third time at the doctor, so that a lot of these departures and absences are collected together. Therefore, what I would like to stress in particular, there are standards, there are philosophies where one parent could just do so, and in the event of a danger when that parent knows that another parent will then specifically empower that parent to request or prohibit without his consent the issuing of a child's identity card so as not to abuse it. Therefore, we can protect each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110758	She's a colleague of Maria Ilic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110759	I thank the esteemed vice president. Deputy with an associate. In fact, I'll look back very briefly in my debate only on the part to say older populations or pensioners. Although the deputy minister particularly apostrophe of the part relating to pensioners and the issuing of ID cards is not a waste to mention it again. So personally, and, of course, on behalf of the club of HSU, we welcome the provision that persons over 65 are left with or without an identification and signed certificate at their own request. Therefore, it should be made clear that persons over 65 years of age who have a label card have a permanent right but not the obligation to have a new card, which is very important to note. What I would like to point out further is that the proposed law does not create a mandatory new cost for pensioners, but is left to their decision. So if they want they can go for a new certificate card, but it's not binding and it doesn't cost. I would like to point out, of course, and say that it is by way of this new law that there is no mandatory cost for other citizens, because it has often been heard that a new cost is being created. So those who have valid ID cards only when a new one comes that they have to change then there will be a cost but it is not an extraordinary cost but a cost in turn. So a regular who would definitely follow a certain number of years. I must say that we are not against technological achievements and can not be, in the end, because we are an integral part of the countries for advanced technologies in which Croatia must, of course, be incorporated. But the use should certainly be very careful. That's it. The Croatian party of pensioners will personally support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110760	Ada Damian, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110761	I thank the esteemed vice president. Comrade Maria, I support your position on everything you have said about the value of issuing IDs and applying this law. And I'm glad you mentioned the cost that our older population has, our pensioners don't have and are left at will. Because all the time, or one major part of our debate here today is about spending, in a way, a populist way, trying to prove that it's an enormous cost for our residents, but I would say that's not the case. The cost that will be around issuing IDs every 5 years is a minimum cost compared to what our citizens pay daily. Well, I'll only mention teleopers, so then some kind of television package, etc... where we literally rob our citizens and not this way. So the value of this card is certainly far greater than the cost and will settle many, many things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110762	And now I call on Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic to give the final presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110763	Thank you, Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. A new ID card, it's one step forward, it gives new functions, gives new opportunities and it's not taking a step back. If we are going to be in a situation where we can benefit from the European Union and all citizens of the European Union, then I don't see what's wrong with it. This is a trend in Europe, and all European countries are moving towards this development of their identity cards. Not only that, but I would like to point out once again very important that no one has to produce a new electronic identity card until the deadline of the identity card that he already owns expires and can result if he wants to use the services provided by an electronic identity card. One question has been asked why the use of contact chips and not contact chips. Most European Union countries, more than half of the European Union countries, are working and using contact chips. None, it's not any outdated technology, nor would anyone risk taking some of the technology that's out of date. And contactless chips, yes, but contactless chips are used for travel documents primarily containing biometric data. The identity card is primarily not a travel document and does not therefore contain biometric data. Why the emergency procedure, there's been a lot of controversy here? So precisely because we want these benefits that the new electronic identity card provides to citizens of the Republic of Croatia who want to monitor the development of technology, who want to refresh their business, to simplify it to them in this direction to encourage electronic business. Well, we have to go ahead in technology, there's no reason to stand. Furthermore, one issue was personal as proof of nationality. No one can ask for a while of citizenship if a person owns a ID card. That's the thing that's clean. A colleague, Drmic, expressed one suspicion, or raised one question about the chips, whether they were obtained for their ID cards and whether they were as unquality as such. No, they're not unquality. These chips are obtained by a legal person who performs the technical design of ID cards, who is responsible for that. And he gets them from who? From producers in Europe and very few of these European producers and world producers specialising in making electronic chips. Once again, I stress European countries, the EU, are using these chips and precisely from these producers, on the 5-year deadline. It's always been a problem for 5 years, 5 years because it gives certain guarantees, gives some other reasons, is a very complex issue and a technical question. And we need to secure security in business. There may be some countries going to 10 years, but it's a question of their technologies and developments and beginnings as soon as they start to develop these systems. A colleague, Grubisic, expressed concern, I think a fellow parliamentary representative, Tudjman, about whether some bodies of other states, foreign states, would participate in those previous procedures and thus create a problem for our citizens living abroad in the diaspora. No, they do not have what to look for there, they have only come to the Republic of Croatia, their homeland, to present one of the identification documents that owns a foreign country in which the residence information is entered, to present to our bodies, and they will receive a ID card without any meaning of the participation of foreign state bodies. There was a question here about issuing IDs to children. It's a question consistent with the Family Law. Many took part in the creation of the Family Law, from the Ministry of Social Policy, the Advocate General for Gender Equality, and it was they who asked it to be in line with the Family Law. We followed that. counterpart Grubisic said well because it was one question from Mr. Lesar's parliamentary representative, who is a legal person who has the authority to draw up ID cards. The question was answered by counterpart Grubisic AKD, however, the AKD is not managed by any person who was the director of the Croatian police. There's a process of selecting these people, and there's other people in charge. We control them by this legal person, and they monitor them according to the law and the bodies responsible for information security and the protection of personal data. Such bodies may establish any responsibilities and legal persons in the issue of a certificate. Under special rules, that legal person may also be sanctioned for possible failures in the certification procedure. And finally, what's most important, to calm our pensioners once again, people who are more than 65 years old and have come up with an I.D. with a permanent expiry date won't have to come up with new I.D.s unless they themselves want to have an electronic I.D. on their own. So there's no cost to them as one population that's sensitive, which looks at every kuna to spend in one reasonable way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110764	Replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110765	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Minister, there is no need for us to be dying but for us to bring solutions that are in the interest of Croatian citizens. That's actually for the best. Your explanation of the technical advantages or disadvantages is almost the same as if I gave it, so I don't think you're working in that area would be much more valuable if someone who has something to do with the profession had given some explanation, preferably in writing, which are technical circumstances and inability for which something is impossible. Like this... say that something can or can't be this kind of arbitrary assessment since it's a professional issue. But what we are fundamentally interested in is a political social aspect, not a technical aspect. So the technique here should serve Croatian citizens, can't have several million Croatian citizens pilgrimage every 5 years because we have or don't have some technical solution and this contact chip, which is 10, 15 years old or 20 as a solution. So it's not some kind of technological innovation, it's something that's been applied for many years in all aspects, banking and so on. Let us therefore see what is the interest of Croatian citizens and try to adapt technical solutions to them rather than vice versa. And if there really is this AKD doesn't have technical capabilities or anything like that, so give us a written explanation from the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110766	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. I'm setting a break until 3:00, and then we'll proceed with the fifth agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110767	Final proposal of the Law on ID, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.835. The debate on the text of the final draft law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Club of HNS Representatives, the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Let's get this straight. Let's get to the amendments. Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic. Let's get this straight. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 30 Do you? Let's take it easy. An explanation, yes, not an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110768	Thank you, President of the Parliament. The government accepts the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110769	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final. We have a Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities on Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110770	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament is not accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110771	Explanation, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110772	Chapter 3 of the proposed law covers provisions on the form of the identity card itself and the proposed provisions provide for a bilingual form of personal identification in cases where it is established by a special law or international contract. We believe that the bilingual application form does not need to be prescribed by law because the content of the form will be detailed in the regulation as prescribed in the proposed paragraph of Article 7 of the proposed law. Similarly, the amendment also proposes bilingual printing of the contents of the identity card, and the reasons for the amendment show that the data stored in the electronic data carrier are considered. The electronic data carrier shall include the entered basic identification data of the holder of the identity card and of the two digital certificates. The data of the holder shall be on the electronic data carrier for the purpose of electronic processing in the country and abroad in cases where the third party does not have access to the national registers in which those data are found. In order to ensure the interoperability of documents, electronic data shall be entered exclusively in the latin letter. It is also noted that part of the data in the visual part of the identity card used for electronic machine processing is also printed exclusively on the latinic letter and without Croatian diacritical characters according to relevant standards. It is a machine-readable zone used for electronic data input at border crossings.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110773	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Furio Radin of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110774	Yes, for national minorities bilingualism is a lacmus paper when it comes to cards is a lacmus paper on whether or not to vote for such a law. That should be clear. Denying this to a sublegal act is too high for us if it can be immediately resolved by a legal act. I will now put this amendment to the vote, but what I said and the attitude of the National Minority Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110775	You want to vote on the amendment or what? Okay. Please vote on the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities which the Government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 16 for, 2 abstentions and 66 against. Dear Deputy Minister, we now have an amendment to the HNS Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110776	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110777	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110778	Personal IDs containing the OI identity card on Braille's letter are intended primarily for blind and impaired persons. The provisions of Article 6(3) of the Final Proposal of the Personal Card Act stipulated that at the request of the person to whom the identity card is issued, the identity card containing the OI code on Braille's letter shall be issued, so that the blind and the impaired persons are not deprived of the possibility of such an identity card. Since the identity of its holder is a public document which primarily determines or checks the identity of its identity card on Braille's letter, it would not be possible to assist blind or impaired officials in state or public bodies to determine or verify the identity of the person to whom it addresses a service and, upon request, propose his identity card containing the OI mark on Braille's letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110779	On behalf of the applicant club of the amendment of the HNS Club, respected representative Boro Blažeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110780	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is now for fellow parliamentary representatives, namely that Article 6(3) provides an opportunity for everyone to ask for an OI card, meaning two letters in Braille's letter. That's what anyone can ask of us whether you're a blind person or a weak person or not. We at the HNS club believe that all I.D.s should and must have that mark because such an I.D. can be obtained from anyone who is undersighted or blind. I demand a plea with that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110781	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Please vote on the amendment of the HNS Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 19 votes for, 2 abstentions and 62 against. And finally, the amendment to the HDSSB's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110782	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110783	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110784	The electronic identity card will contain the private key of the user and the certificate used to produce an advanced electronic signature. The advanced electronic signature under the Law on Electronic Signature has the power to sign and is a certificate to adequately protect it in order to prevent its abuse. The private key of the user is protected by the complexity of the algorithms that it has created, which is more complex than the one that requires greater processor power to compromise the key. The period of validity of the certificate shall be determined depending on the type of algorithms used and the length of the houses. The period of validity of the RS keys is consistent with the ETC TS 119 standard according to that standard, it is recommended to issue RS keys of 2408 bits per period of validity of three years but certainly shorter than six years. The electronic identity card to be issued in the Republic of Croatia will be used by the keys of 2400 and 800 bits over a period of five years which is fully in line with the recommendations set out above. For the certificate to be valid in accordance with the proposed amendment for 10 years, it would have to have a key length of 4906 bits and today's technology and electronic services to be used, the identity card would not be able to support the key of that length.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110785	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I apologize, the applicant for the amendment is a respected representative Drazen Djurovic, as the HDSSB's Club of Representatives was in the title, so I made a mistake. The applicant of the amendment shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110786	Yeah, well, thank you. The basic, fundamental intensity was ours to actually make life easier for Croatian citizens because these changes of the law will require Croatian citizens to be photographed and to make IDs every 5 years, so far it has never been in Croatian history. We think it is a much more reasonable period for Croatian citizens to make IDs. I won't mention that the cost is actually increasing. We force not only twice to go to the police every 5 years but the cost actually increases over 300% for the Croatian citizens' ID cards. So far in the 10-year period, the identity card of the Croatian citizen has cost 50 kuna, from now on, in the 10-year period, the identity card will cost them at least 160 kuna. So twice 80 kuna according to the now valid cost of making plus twice photos plus 4 days of going to the police. And so it is, we are the ones who make the laws and the technical solutions simply need to be adapted to those standards that we define. And so we believe that if there is no possibility of a contact chip, it could be planned without contact. But in this way the growing period of validity of all documents for Croatian citizens is actually creating an additional financial cost and additional burden in the daily life of Croatian citizens rather than in some way making it easier for them. Therefore, our amendment was to make it 10 years and to adapt technical conditions to that standard that we define in the interest of Croatian citizens. So I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110787	Thank you very much. Let us plead on the amendment of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic, whom the government has not accepted. Please vote. The vote is over, please result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 17 votes, 2 abstentions and 68 against. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please vote. The vote is over, please result. I find that most votes are 71 for, 6 abstentions and 10 against the passed Law P.Z. No. 835 in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110788	It's 3:00 a.m. for a colleague and a colleague, so we're back to work. We will discuss: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 837. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Statutes Committee and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You've received reports. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Evelyn Tonkovic, Deputy Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110789	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. This bill is adopted to bring Croatia's legislation in line with EU rules. In order to repeal Directive 2001/82 of the EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 June 2011 on facilitating cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences related to road safety, and the adoption of a new EU Directive 2015/413 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2015 on facilitating cross-border exchange of information on road traffic security offences, it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Road Safety Act in the part in which EU rules are now transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal also amends the definitions of a working machine, moped, motorcycle, motor tricycle, prescribed by Article 2. Road safety laws to bring this bill in line with EU law. The European Commission, under the E-pilot in Case 6919 14... requested answers to questions relating to the harmonisation of the provisions of this law with the provisions of Directive 2006/126 EC on driving licences amended by Directives 2009/113 EC, 2011/94 EU and 2012/36 EU and as a result of the reply of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Affairs to the European Commission has amended the provision of Article 2 of the Important Road Safety Act. Furthermore, as the provisions of the Road Safety Act stipulates that driving licences are to be issued to categories B, C1 E, C, D1 E, D, D, D only to drivers who already have the right to drive vehicles of category B, C1 C, D1 and D and only to issue a licence for category H to the driver who already has the right to operate category B and, as the right of management, to prove to the driver’s licence or to confirm the application for a driving licence. The current provision indicates that the driver is obliged to have a driving licence, e.g. in a situation where he owns a C-category so he can get a C-E-category driver's license. That provision should therefore be amended as it does not comply with the provision in which driving licences for categories C1 C, D1 and D are issued to drivers who have already passed a driving test for the management of vehicles of category B. The Road Safety Act requires that the person to whom the vehicle is registered is required within 15 days of the sale or other mode of change of ownership of the vehicle to be checked out unless the vehicle’s obligation to publish the vehicle is assumed by the new owner. It is also prescribed that the new owner of the vehicle that has entered into the vehicle's checkout obligation is required within 15 days of the acquisition of the vehicle to register the vehicle in his name or to log it out, and if he does not register it on his or her own behalf, the Ministry of Interior will, at the request of the person to whom the vehicle is registered, suspend the registration of the vehicle. However, during the application of the provisions of the applicable law, a problem that occurs in practice was observed and in the event that the old owner of the registered vehicle is obliged to log out the vehicle and cannot do so because he is no longer in possession of a document or a transport licence and registration plate, which he is obliged to submit in the vehicle’s check-out procedure. In this respect, and in order to resolve that proposal, this bill stipulates that the vehicle’s reporting obligation becomes an exclusive obligation for the new owner of the vehicle, in all cases, and not only in the case of the vehicle’s obligation to sign out when the vehicle is acquired. This proposal also abolishs the maximum engine power limit, the personal B-categories to be managed by young drivers because such a restriction does not comply with Directive 2006/126 of the European Parliament and of the Council on driving licences. Furthermore, it has not been demonstrated that the gross power of the engine in passenger cars has any effect on traffic safety. In fact, it has been shown that the limit of the power of the private car engines that young drivers can manage to 80 kilowatts creates a number of problems in practice. The second car issue in the family will cover mandatory liability insurance policies that are not valid unless the driver had the right to manage the vehicle that caused the damage, foreign drivers who come to the Republic of Croatia and the like. In order to extend the validity of the driver’s licence after 65 years of life, the applicable Road Safety Act prescribes an obligation to carry out a health examination, which in practice proved to be an excessive burden on citizens of that age and therefore proposes a solution to which a medical examination should be carried out only if the health examination obligation is established by a health certificate on the basis of which the driver’s licence is issued. However, I'd like a little dyspression here. The legal obligation set out in Article 233(3) always remains, this is a general obligation for all drivers involved, traffickers that if a medical examination or in the course of treatment determines that the driver is suffering from a disease or has a disability for which he is no longer able to manage the motor vehicle safely, the doctor who has performed the examination or treated the driver and the selected physician is obliged to inform the competent police department, or police station, so that we, or the Ministry of the Interior, may refer him to an extraordinary supervisory medical examination. So this isn't about any possible reduction in traffic safety. The applicable Road Safety Act stipulates that the healthcare ability of drivers and candidates for drivers whose health skills has been assessed differently in one or more medical institutions determines by medical examination a second-degree health commission established by the minister responsible for health care. However, the law does not stipulate how, in the case of a different assessment of health skills, it affects the possession of a driving licence. Therefore, this bill stipulates that in that case, when there is a difference between the police administration and the police station, such a driver, will be temporarily withdrawn from the driver's licence until he is subject to a medical examination by the second-degree medical commission. Since there is a obligation to bring the Road Safety Act into line with the acquis of the European Union, it is proposed to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110790	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected Ada Damianac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110791	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. There's another code P.Z.E. in front of us. which means that I am harmonising it with the legislation of the European Union. It is, of course, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. The amendment itself comes as noted by the Deputy Minister for the abolition of the European Parliament and the Council Directive of 25 October 2011 and the adoption of a new European Union Directive from 11 March 2015 and concerns the easier exchange of information on traffic offences against road safety in the part of the introduction of European Union rules in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. It is also about harmonising the concepts and definitions in the area of transport vehicles as well as the definition, for example. AM and C vehicles which mean that AM vehicles are mopeds and motorculators and what is needed to manage them and that is the age of 15. Then for C vehicles which are motor vehicles other than D1, D and F whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 7 thousand 500 kg and for their management is a minimum age of 21 years. The coordination relates further to the right to obtain a specific category for the management of motor vehicles. Article 217 defines the categories which include the category as well as the minimum age of the driver for obtaining a driving licence of a given category. Speaking of driving licences, it is also important to note another change and concerns the duration of the validity of the licence, i.e. the extension when it expires. Namely, the driving licence for the management of vehicles AM, A1, A2, A, B, and BE categories shall be issued with a period of validity of 10 years or up to 65 years of life. So far, it has been a medical examination obligation after 65 years, and this is something that is now changing, it remains a medical examination obligation only if it has been established by a health certificate on the basis of which the driving licence was issued and during its extension, so after 65 years of life. This decision does not apply to drivers of category B who are interested and driving instructors, e.g. taxi drivers, professional drivers because they also issue a driver's license for 10 years but with the obligation of medical examination when extending. For drivers holding a driver’s licence C1, C1E, CC, D1, D1E, DDE and H, the driver’s licence shall be issued within 5 years and there shall be a medical examination obligation for each extension. However, there is another restriction, which is the extension of the driver’s license to 1 year in cases where healthcare is needed within a shorter period. The competent authority, or the police administration, may decide not to issue a driver's licence and no appeal may be made against such a decision, but an administrative dispute may be initiated. This is evident to us in Article 224, but also in Article 241 in the process of not issuing export tiles in Article 250 in the vehicle non-registration procedure in the case of a change in owner if no change or check-out is reported within 15 days of the change of owner, and this is now becoming the obligation of the new owner of the vehicle. It also refers to Article 252 which also provides that a solution to the vehicle registration process, the extension of the validity of the traffic licence, the issue of test plates, the release of the authorisation for the issue of test plates, the issue of the use of portable tiles cannot be declared a complaint, but an administrative dispute can be initiated. In the case of a different assessment of the state of health or the ability of the driver, Article 284 relating to refusal to grant a licence to a candidate for a driver or withdrawal by a police administration, until the second-degree medical committee has determined that he is capable of managing vehicles of the category for which he is granted a driving licence, for which he is granted or withdrawn, no appeal can be made but an administrative dispute can be initiated. I personally regret that the restrictions on young drivers are lifted up to 24 years of age, which is for the management of motor vehicles whose engine power exceeds 80 kW, but the reason to move it is precisely to comply with other European Union countries where this rule does not exist because it would then be discriminatory against our drivers. It's good that what's important remains a zero tolerance rate for young drivers' alcohol. And to say that, from 3 April to 10 April 2015, consultation with the interested public was conducted and during the online debate, 26 participants submitted their proposals and, in addition to the material we received with this bill, there is a report with discussions and arguments on acceptance or non-acceptance. The amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act that we have ahead of us will take effect after the adoption of normal, or on the first day, will begin on the first day after the publication in the National Journal. Of course, the SDP club will support amendments to the Road Safety Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110792	Thank you, too. On behalf of the club of independent leftists, Mladen Novak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110793	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Assistant. I'm going to have a different discussion than my predecessor. As far as I'm aware, and I don't think I'm the only one here who's been to the board's session, we can conclude that the amendment to the European directive is simply that it is now calling for some other regulations or other articles. In content itself there is no change, therefore this E is again a kind of manipulation, but well, we are already used to it. And usually when that E stands, then something adapts to the European Union directives, and essentially changes a lot of other things that have absolutely nothing to do with it. I'm not going to say that passing this bill has something to do with a pre-election campaign and the fact that the election year or pre-election year, depends, but that certain provisions here by my disputable are indeed. There was talk of whether they might have succumbed to a committee session and some kind of car lobby. Here I can read you the answer from 2012, July 13th, a representative question that reads that about 82% of all registered vehicles in the Republic of Croatia are below that 80kw threshold, and therefore it is not a convenience when we talk about Croatia. But the fact that we are not just talking about Croatia and that there is likely to be some pressure at European level in such regulation. Because let's be honest, those who do the strongest chicken these young people say, they basically have the strongest lobbys and they'll be the easiest to figure out some solutions. But since I've already mentioned this law, then I have to say something positive that doesn't turn out to be just negative. About the change of ownership this is all you've explained not to repeat it now, absolutely agreeing and it should have been done before, but here we are not and it's not a criticism, but it's a purely well-detected problem. As far as medical examinations are concerned, I agree, and I think this is a good thing that you've explained further because judging by what's been read in the media, I even think that some journalists have misread it, and I think this was well presented on your part. But in 2012 I referred the question in July, a parliamentary question based on two citizens' questions. One inquiry referred to that the privateer had a registered vehicle that was above the prescribed power, he was a craftsman, a wagon vehicle, used it in a turn and now his son is going with that vehicle by, literally 2 meters of cable, 2 and a half kilometers away from where they work, stopped him by the police and he's in violation. He sent his son under this age line. That's problem number one. Problem number two. The smaller cars are loaded, but below this, they're speeding from 0 to 100 to I don't know 6, 7 seconds, and the one mentioned earlier has a acceleration in about 15 seconds. That's when I got the answer to the representative's question, but what's interesting is what it says in that answer. When introducing these restrictions into the laws, we studied the solutions of other countries, as well as the statistical indicators and specificities that exist in our country. Now there's something not clear to me. Whether statistical indicators have changed something drastically, or if this is written clean to answer something, so no numerical indicators, without calling for any arguments, but a finding that you can't verify and it implies it's true. That I think is unserious by no matter which ministry or government that in such a way, we have observed, spoken, and therefore it is understood that it is true. I think that's incorrect. On the other hand, there we had a session of the Committee where we had the opportunity to feel that a habit had already been created among our citizens and that something was being understood. Young people under the age of 24 can't drive certain vehicles. It's become some sort of let's say something that people have come to terms with, it's a commitment that we all know is like that and no one's asking the question of its adoption. Now, all of a sudden, we are focusing on the issue of harmonisation with the EU, and then there was an explanation for greater security. So why don't we get a regulation, or leave an existing one who says at least according to what we heard and what it says here, what we heard last time on the board, not now at this last session, but when it was actual, that the drastic mortality of young people in traffic, that increased safety. All possible indicators went hand in hand with that law that we're about to change. Is it someone who can explain to me whether these parameters have changed that way or if they're day-to-day political needs, and then maybe someone who claims it's a populist move related to future elections is really right? I'm not, I'm not saying that, but it's crazy if we're putting young people's lives on the line right now because we're going to pin it on someone, and from this paper, the answer signed by the Minister in 2012 says that it's just coming out, the conclusion is that this is actually a populist move and that everything is done just because the elections are coming. I don't know, but I'd like an answer from you, Deputy, can you come out with concrete indicators, figures as to exactly how much this law has been passed, the one currently in place has fallen to the number of young people who have been killed, their participation in traffic accidents, or is that such a flat-rate data for daily-political purposes? I'm not against the law changing. And if it turns out to be something good, that something's going towards something, raising some quality of people's lives. But I'm afraid this is some kind of rash move that doesn't exactly have a foothold in anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110794	Thank you. On behalf of the DC, the New Wave and the People's Reformers' Party will speak to the respected Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110795	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed Deputy with an associate, very briefly on this law focused on one important matter. Prior to that, it is quite clear that it is a law that, because of the need to comply with the acquis, the EU, or the relevant directive, needs to be adopted by an urgent procedure, is a clear situation, and we have harmonised everything and we have to do this. However, in this law there is an idea that Mr. Deputy Minister has tried to explain, which some colleagues, colleagues and colleagues will accept, part of the public will be for, part against, and I will look back at it with my own experience and case. I had a friend, a song starts, and it's good when the song starts like that, but when life experience starts and this sad life experience that we need is one reference to think about this, it's not great. The peers, we grew up together, went to school together, reached a certain age, and the point where he remained, and I continued to live on, died in a car accident on a moped near Sibenik because his advantage was taken by a driver of 80 and a few years who, of course, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not lying cannot drive in today's traffic. We can call for freedom. If we were to call for freedom from the birth of a man, then it would be questionable, and why not before the age? Because we estimate that a human being to a certain degree of maturity doesn't acquire adequate mental, intellectual, motoristic whatever abilities you want to drive. Would you like to tell me, Mr. Deputy Minister, on behalf of your minister, that people of 85 years are able to participate in today's traffic without risk? Has anyone in the amendments to the Road Safety Act tried to understand the truth that the largest number of drivers is more than 80 years of road bombs? What are we doing? Are we going to introduce Croatian airlines pilots of 70 years? What are we doing? We're removing the mandatory medical examination after 65. ... Believe it or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are removing the last mandatory legal capacity filter that is in itself questionable. And we all know that truth in this room. Because if it were different then the Olympic eight-year-old would be very likely to be the average age of 67. And I know that today at 44 or 46 years old, I wanted to steal a little bit, I couldn't even pull a 500-metre rail. And let's not lie! We're passing a law in which, anyway, the problematic provisions by which we let people, old people who can barely walk on the road, who don't see a finger in front of their noses, are still working out a mandatory medical examination under the pretext that if his doctor needs something and some commission, and Churchill said a genius thing about commissions, he'll solve it. And then when one of my other friends kills an 85-year-old man, then we'll be responsible ladies and gentlemen in this room and you, Mr. Deputy and your minister, who came up with this brilliant idea. I ask you once again to reconsider this law and sleep through the night, to come with the amendment of the government. I'm not going to write it, I expect the government to do it and protect the lives of the citizens of this country on the roads, to bring ourselves to common sense so that no one else, someone else's friend or friend, is stuck because of this kind of nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110796	We have two replicas, first Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110797	My colleague Baranovic, this debate of yours is at least inappropriate not to say any worse words because I could say anything because I don't know that my blood pressure would be really high right now. This is inappropriate and a disgrace to an agent who calls people at the age of 75. I'm four years old, am I an old man? Shame! I'll give you 100 meters of 10 meters, and we'll see who goes first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110798	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110799	I apologize deeply to your youth, and my lapus will never happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110800	Second replica, Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, Col. Baranovic, of course everyone has their own style, I wouldn't say it like you do, but basically I'm going to say it now because that's how I spoke to committees who were and the proposing representatives know that they basically agree with the basic thought that you've brought here, and that's that I also think that this provision that after 65 years you don't have to do a health check anymore, but only on the basis of that health check, if there are indications about that medical examination that was made when you issue your driver's license. And here I definitely think they're right, that first you should listen to the profession that's talking about it. I don't know if you're all but some of us have got extremely well-founded reasons why such a proposal shouldn't stand in law and it's by a medical professional. We can fool ourselves in one way or another, we can all think about ourselves this or that, but I basically don't support this proposal to, let's see how and how this can be better arranged, but to fully regulate this right so far or to throw out the possibility of going to a health check after 65 years. I don't think he's good, no matter what arguments I've had to read from the Retired Union and the others who talked about it. But I think the profession should primarily be about this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110802	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110803	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members Sobol, your agreement with what I think as a representative, and most of the MPs besides his colleague, Schemper, and perhaps others, are a encouraging sign for Croatian politics. This means that reason can rise above daily politics and that in this room we can be responsible regardless of parties, gender and age. I said what I said at the pay phone without being ashamed of my youth, referring to the reason I have today, without fearing or ashamed of future age if God is to greet me. And for that reason, I can't see at all why my colleague Schamper stepped forward so temperamentally. Because if I loved anyone in my life I loved my grandmother's age, she gave me the most. I'm glad you agreed, and I hope there will be more MPs who will give their pain in today's debate on this thinking of yours, my thinking of common sense that respects the value of human life and the real parameters of making these decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110804	On behalf of the HSU Club will speak to the esteemed Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Before I start, you'd have to put a finger like Shucker at that pen when he was playing at the World Cup. You've got me so excited. The latest amendments to the Road Safety Act were at the debate in this House on 13 July last year and were aimed at harmonising with the right of EU property regarding the mandatory use of safety belts and child restraint systems in vehicles. In addition to these key provisions, the primary objective was to ensure a higher level of safety for drivers and other road users by prohibiting the use of mobiles and other devices while driving on all drivers such as tram drivers and cyclists where there was no ban. In addition to these two previous provisions that have been brought into line with EU directives, a provision which has nothing to do with the EU Directive, which has prescribed a health review obligation in such a way that the driver's licence cannot be extended after 65 years of life without a mandatory health check. The application of this provision of 5 August 2014 caused great anger and dissatisfaction in pensioners and persons over 65 years of age. Fulfillment of psycho tests, examinations in four to five doctors, and eventually the cost of about 600 kuna was a blow to a third-aged person. Before this change since 2004, the driving licence has been issued for 10 years with a period of validity of up to 80 years of driver's life and after that on a deadline marked in the medical conviction and maximum to 5 years. At a time when life spans continued, when the age limit for retirement was increased to 65 to 67 years of age in the same year, the reduction of age from 80 to 65 years was really shocking especially for those who did not feel the burden of years or the loss of psycho-physical abilities. At the same time, there are many individual categories of insurance companies such as university professors, lawyers, doctors who have the right to work for up to 70 years of life. This change also pointed to a possible discriminatory effect because such a provision put a large number of drivers in an unfavourable position based on age compared to drivers under 65 years of age. In Croatia in October 2014, there were 2 million 152 thousand drivers, of which 221,000 were older than 65 years of life, which is 10.28%. Statistics show that older drivers do not belong to the most risky traffic groups, that they are, because of their experience in driving, far more cautious and thoughtful road users. The main reason for the provision so far is that health check is generally prescribed for people over 65 years of age, only care is taken of age and not of driver’s health condition. The 65-year-old limit was set on a flat-rate basis because psychophysical abilities are individual in an elderly driver. The amendment to Article 222(2) of the second subparagraph of last year has been quite undetected with the other amendments under P.Z.E. Following an emergency procedure, although the process of extending driving licences was not the subject of compliance with the EU Directive. The consultation with the interested public on the draft bill was held via the Internet and was conducted within a very short period of 7 days in June 2014. Well, there was no objection to the bill. Unfortunately, only by applying the law, by after-checking and comparison with other EU members have we seen that the same problem has been very liberally solved in Belgium, France, Germany where there is no medical examinations for the renewal of driving licences regardless of the year, to Italy which has a very rigorous law. Obligatory medical examination every 10 years to 50 years, every 5 years from 50 to 70 and every 3 years after 70 years of life. The comments were also that the draft bill did not go beyond the mandatory procedure of the debate at the National Council for Retired and Striped Persons. Although under the agreement between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the National Council, any amendments to the rules at the stage of the drafts concerning the pension system and the protection of older persons should be made to the Council's agenda so that its opinion can effectively affect the final draft law. We also felt that family medicine doctors should take responsibility and initiate a certain examination because they know the health status of their patients best. In the application of this law and so far, pursuant to Article 233(3), a physician who has seen certain health problems was obliged to notify the driver of this information to the police department of the change of health of the driver regardless of the age of the driver and therefore 65 years ago. The Croatian Party of Retired Party Club, according to the conclusion of the National Council for Pensioners and Elderly, has proposed these amendments to Article 222 which have been discussed with the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. This amendment to Article 222 is the result of such an appropriate discussion, which is now stated, in the case of extension of the driver’s driving licence, the driver shall be obliged to undergo a medical examination for the driver in the event that the medical examination obligation is established by a health certificate on the basis of which the driver’s licence is issued. So what's important for the pensioners is the medical examination obligation to extend driver's licenses after 65 years of age. We hope and believe that this solution will satisfy all 65+ drivers who have changed since August 2014 who felt discriminated. We thank those ministries who have accepted our justified arguments and sent these amendments to the emergency procedure after which we are at least in something equal to that of one Germany, France, Belgium. Of course, the HSU Club will support this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110806	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110807	Thank you, Mr. President. I wouldn't want to upset you, I'm in that category over 65. I passed my driver's license at 18 and by 65, no one asked me anything alive. In the meantime, I started wearing glasses, got sugar, and things changed in my life, and when I was 65, I left without a obligation, I had no obligation, but I went to that doctor's appointment because it's clear to me that there might be danger on the road without being aware of it, so at least I know. And I don't think there's anything wrong with having this situation the way it's been so far to make the review mandatory. The second thing is that it's expensive and that kind of review over 65 should be free and the state should finance it. But the very fact that a man's system and senses and reflexes and everything with age is going away is something we have to admit. We've got a mirror at home. Let's look in the mirror and see it, and we don't need to get upset about it. I'm not mad at anyone, but at least you'd be offended if someone told me you're 66 years old and you're not the same as you were when you were 30. Well, I didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110808	The answer to the line, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110809	And a colleague can be very nice, but when you have an old heart under your hood, you can't drive what you look like. Besides, I'd recommend you change your doctor. If you've only seen or felt that you're not real in the mirror, then change it nicely because he obviously doesn't take care of you. And our proposal is really in it even though all the pensioners were primarily suing for heights, 600, 700 kuna for a pensioner who has 1,800 kuna is really too much, but they also take care of their health, and we have been trying to increase the responsibility of a doctor especially a family doctor who has known him for years, who has his chart and it is perfectly normal to refer you to the review if you do not see well or you can buy a new mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110810	New replica, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110811	Here's my colleague Šemper to you... I fully support your position because the fact is, and it seems to me that from the replica of Mr Vuljanić when he said he noticed that something was wrong with him he went to check it out, it indicates that older people of older age are more aware of what they are and what their abilities are than younger ones. What I'm worried about, and that's what we've been saying on the board, are the restrictions that come down for the younger. So we introduced what was something that proved to be effective and good. The reduced statistics showed it, the number of accidents, and we were all young and we know how many of our friends and acquaintances at that age died. They only adapt to European laws that prescribe such a thing, and break something that has proved good, perhaps not in this form as it has been until the age of 24, and certainly there must be a certain period in these young people when they are just leaving and sitting behind the steering wheel in which they will squeeze the gas slipper and what strength they will have under that gas slipper. As far as older people are concerned, they are kudicating in that part of the experienced but also healthful much more aware of their condition than these young people, and we were all young and we used to pull a lot more than 100. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110812	The answer to the line, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110813	Thank you very much. My colleague, you've really calmed me down now. Now it will be easier for me, and even after the new adoption of the law to our pensioners because you know many of them are still in those 65+ years and I have a friend who's 3rd in Croatia in table tennis and that generation, maybe some of them don't even have a chart of health and feel very good and really that they must at all these tortures that some of August have passed are really bitter because you're taking psychological tests, psychophysical tests, so if 4.5 doctors if it's on a pile it's really one of your bothers and then there's still that bother you need to call bits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110814	On behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Party Club, Nancy Tyrelli signed up. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Drazen Djurovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. There are a few things that would also be referred to by the predecessors. First of all, when it comes to limiting the mileage, the speed limit of the vehicle’s movement that primarily refers to these mopeds. I saw it was actually part of the regulation that we have to accept, so the speed limit for mopeds from 50 to 45 km. So actually, I don't think we have what to say or say, but just accept it. Although I can express my regret about this because we didn't have the number of our fellow citizens driving those mopeds and using them specifically in Dalmatia this up to 50 cc's. And I don't think it's even 50 miles away that God knows what kind of high speed the limiters are now another 45 is even less. In fact, it kind of makes it difficult for them to participate in traffic when they're limited. And in urban traffic when the moped is limited to 45 km. Secondly, when it comes to young drivers and the lifting of the provisions on the restriction of the power of the vehicle that I can control, I think it's some 107, 108 horsepower on the car. The fact is, I'm quite interested in cars, and the fact is that in the last few years, practically lower-class vehicles come with a force of 75, 80 kilowatts, that actually year by year and vehicles are getting smaller and smaller. So there's no, there's really no happy solution here, there really isn't. And on the one hand, I understand, I have the understanding to lift that power-restriction provision. On the other hand, I have an understanding for those who are afraid that this could again increase the number of traffic accidents associated with young drivers. What I find a little incomprehensible is when it comes to Article 221, which is where paragraphs 3 and 4 concerning strength are deleted. And I understand that item 2 remains so that they can't start running a motor vehicle if they're in the blood or under the influence of drugs, drugs or have alcohol. And I do not understand in paragraph 1. these speed limits which they are allowed to operate in those motor vehicles. Which means I think if he leaves that item one, they can't drive more than 120 miles an hour on the highway. So on the highway there is a limit of 130 km per hour and we leave to young drivers in Article 221, paragraph 1. that they must not drive more than 120 km per hour. In a way, it seems almost bizarre. Or on an open road where there's a limit of a total careful movement of 90 kilometers per hour we say a young driver can't drive more than 80 km per hour. Actually, I don't see, so when it's already gone off, I don't see what's the point of the big one being being held down by that point one, where we're limiting them to drive as much as 10 kilometers less than the limits that apply to all the participants in the traffic. Honestly, when the power limit has already been erased, then we put on the same way as I would say to drive or stick within the limits that apply to all traffic participants. I don't see how the police can determine by laser whether a young driver drives 10 km less than all other road users do in comparison to road restrictions. In a way, that seems a bit bizarre. And as soon as these proposals are lifted, let's cancel one and that's it. So he can drive all the vehicles, so he can drive them towards the same limits as all the other road users. Also, when it comes to what is really the most interesting issue in this area, which is the issue of medical examinations or the length of the driving licence, the HDSB Representatives Club has proposed that driving licences for these categories AB, F and G be issued for 15 years and up to 75 years for age groups. Why up to 15 years? Because it is therefore recommended that driving licences be issued for a period of 10 years but also allowed in this Directive 126/2006 for countries in national legislation to allow for the duration of driving licences to be maximum up to 15 years. We all remember and you lied and I was in the South, getting driver's licenses after the exam, it was worth up to 65 years old. The time when this legal concept came is the time of the 1970s, the 1980s, there was a time when the average age of life in the Republic of Croatia was about 65 years for women and men. The driver’s license was also valid until a period of some average age. The working life was about 60 or so. Today, 30 years later, the average age in the Republic of Croatia, so men and women about 75 years. So somewhere here, when we transfer this analogy to today, given that the working age has also moved to 67, to 70 years, life span has increased significantly, we keep it quite reasonable, and that this deadline that was up to 65 years old as some limit of age is now moving to 75 years. And let's use that possibility that the regulatory European Union allows us to extend the duration of the driver's license to that maximum of 15 years. Why? Well, it's simply to make it easier for our fellow citizens not to have every 10 but every 15 years to extend the validity of the driver's license. After 75 years, that is the age that means the average length of life in the Republic of Croatia at the moment, means in this time that we are now talking about. We're actually attached to this proposal of yours to just... to extend the driver's license for five years because we're still holding it then some cycles are already changing, lifespan cycles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or perhaps another option to think about, let's say, after 75 years, that a mandatory one medical examination should be introduced and then some limit or some space should be set because I think that time here today was actually followed by what the legislator was aiming at at at at 65 years ago 20 or 30 years ago. They'd be somewhere in that ratio. I will remind you that in the Federal Republic of Germany, after 50 years, the driver's license is extended to 5 years. So this regulation that we're talking about... it allows after 50 years the legislator in national legislation to define shorter periods of driving licence after 50. I think that and when it comes to this part, and I was there when it came to the Law on Weapons and Whatever it is, this part that you can't understand best, which is that family doctors are involved and police associates, and they provide the police with information about the diseases that people are sick of simply, it won't be. It's very small, it's very rare, and when they happen, then I'll tell you what they look like in practice. When a conscious doctor writes to the police that his patient has psychosis, so he has to tell a doctor's secret, he has to make a diagnosis, he has to inform the police about the medications that this man is taking, then the police officer calls the man and tells him here's the gentleman, your doctor, and that and that date, he tipped the police that you are you. And then, of course, that man goes to this doctor and wants to deal with him. Yeah, yeah, that's exactly how it's gonna be, and I can give you an x example. And then, of course, a good part of the doctor avoids such a situation at all, that we don't say that he violates the Hippocratic oath, that he violates the medical secret, that he violates the legal obligations he has and that he actually engages in some of the evaluations he's not in charge of because he's not a specialist in medicine to evaluate or know exactly how the medical rules define the circumstances in which someone is capable or incapable of managing a motor vehicle, and there's still additional himself actually getting himself into trouble. And finally, I mean that, of course, doctors have done that, neither have they, nor will they do it in the future. Therefore, police should not rely on doctors to cooperate with the police in this way. Croatian doctors will not cooperate with the police for these and many other reasons I have not mentioned now. They could be more elaborated. So we propose this very amendment of ours and I say that we could think about that limit for 75 years whether to introduce one medical examination compulsory or leave only to extend the driver after 75 years after 5 years. We think that this is from one piece of shit, so it makes it easier for citizens because they need to renew their driver's license more rarely, and on the other hand, a reduction in the duration of the driver's license after 75 years to every 5 years still actually leads to the situation of whoever has that driver's license, if anything else needs to get to the police, and someone will see him in what condition he is, and he'll need to be in that condition himself to be able to file a request, go for permission and so on. So we think that this solution is better than this solution for every 10 years and without any special criteria about it. And finally, given that this is directly affecting these issues, I think that the opportunity is actually for the Ministry of Interior to consider and there are many mechanisms that could increase the safety of transport in the Republic of Croatia and when it comes to the consumer vehicle market, given that today this is the market for used cars, in fact, the main source from which Croatians are getting cars because new vehicles for natural persons, so for our citizens we have a few almost and very strange situations. One of these situations is that all of us at our technical inspection stations enter the mileage of our vehicle every year for a technical examination, and then when the vehicle is sold that mileage, it is done massively in Croatia and these vehicles are sold with reduced mileage. Although we do have data at the technical inspection stations exactly about the mileage the vehicle was passing all along. There has never been an attempt in fact to simply allow customers of the vehicle to have a very clear insight into how far this vehicle has passed just from the data from regular annual technical examinations which is relatively simple, simply systemically solved. I think that we would actually avoid the many malversions that occur on the car market, and thus actually indirectly improve the safety of all traffic users because it would not be possible for our citizens to actually very often buy vehicles that are in a much worse technical state, with much more traveled km than it says specifically in them. Here and finally, the HDSSB Club proposes this amendment and with the adoption of this amendment we will be in agreement with these amendments and the amendments to the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110816	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed Zeljko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110817	Col. Djurović, what you said would be a conflict between the family doctor and the patient, or the driver, will not hear it from someone that the police will bring him in for a specialist or medical examination, but the family doctor will personally tell him and inform him according to the provisions of the police administration. And certainly every driver's goal is to know that he's healthy and that he can drive and that he's not in danger for other road users. And as for August of last year, the limit was up to 80 years and there was no more accident in percentage of how many drivers 65 plus there were. There are 10% of them, and in that ratio there were accidents where drivers were 65 plus guilty. Therefore, there is also now a special provision that has been before, but which I believe will be applied something more consistent than it has been so far that doctors of personal medicine can take care of it and should take care of any patient who is tasked with family medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110818	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110819	Thank you. There is no question about the relationship between the doctor and the patient and this recommendation that he will tell the man, whether he should do something or not. However, it is not what most or a good part of the people will answer, but it will respond when it is directed to the police. Then it happens exactly as I told you, and I didn't say it as something that could happen, but from a few cases I've heard from people that it just happened. Whether it was a weapon, whether it was incompetence for some kind of job or a driver's license. It's just that there's a conflict because there's just the scenario of how I described it not being repeated right now, and where, in fact, the official of the police simply directs this situation to this doctor who turns out to be some kind of police informant who reports to the police when this man has taken a few pills, which he takes, who happens to him and stuff like that. I think these are very problematic situations on the ethical side and professionally, not to mention how the trust and relationship of that man and his doctor are being violated. And that's why you can't expect, of course there are people with whom you can do this to a lot of people. But with that part, it just doesn't work out and there are problems, and there's a question if that man sues the doctor with a private suit as it ends. This will call for the Transport Safety Act, this will call for some other laws, and the question is how will the court ultimately rule in such a relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110820	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Ante Sanader will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110821	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here is about one simple change in accordance with European directives, clearly and according to which guidelines and with which amendments. But clearly when it comes to this kind of road safety law where we're all drivers and where we all know all about it, it's the same as football players we all play football and we all think we can be coaches of the Croatian team, the best. And so here we all know all about it, and that's why these things are ungrateful and what the minister is going to tell us now or someone professional when we all know it. But here, here, there were two issues that were being debated, and a year ago when we discussed the same thing about the amendments to this law, it was about the same thing, the main discussions were on these issues. And then a year ago, on behalf of our club, I advocated exactly what has now changed. We just said that it would affect our pensioners and I liked today the debate of Mr. Schamper and his reaction, because I saw him riding a bike better than young people over 30. And as such, he reacted justifiably when there was a situation here, perhaps subjectively normal. We all have subjective situations where someone our dear and dear got hurt in some difficult situation, someone fell off the floor, so you should close all the flights now. So we can't look at this change of law like that. We absolutely support as we did a year ago and here we thank you for your subsequent understanding. I'm sure it's not in the election campaign because it's not done in this last year's term and when it's time to pre-election who's going to do something for the campaign. That's naive. So, it's a good thing we changed that, and that our people at 65 don't have to be subjected to new skills and new findings and new payments, no matter what we've heard here, some of the doctors in medical work have objected. But normally, so they make the most of it and they're that side of the conflict I'd say by quotes in conflict and damaged sides because now they'll have less to do. But surely, people of 65 years of age are not the ones to be subject to such strict criteria. And if you were to watch how many of the victims of 25 or 30 years of age I think statistics would be much more difficult on the side of those young people because they caused more car accidents, accidents than these older people, so I absolutely support this, and on behalf of our club, we certainly support it there. I am the same opinion no matter what Mr. Djurovic says about primary care doctors, I understand their complexity of their situation and their weight and their responsibilities. However, they must take one responsibility. If the doctors are selected, if they take the head. You know there are patients who don't go to a doctor for a few years and the head is paid regularly every month, then I think our primary care doctors should help their patients. I'd call it help to my patients if they didn't have to now some ex-post costs and then someone wouldn't test them afterwards and not check them. We can watch things like that. We can look at that rough case, there are some people who are problematic, so they're going to attack their primary physician. But we can also think about my primary physician if I trust him to be me and the service, that I don't have to pay anything extra for every service that he can help me. So in that sense, I appeal that if we should and through legal solutions, we should put our primary protection doctors in charge that they are the ones who need to be informed. When we tell the police then in our people, it's rough, I know, and I accept what the predecessors said because then it turns out to be a police informant. But it's not a police informant, it's someone who's supposed to report what the patient's having problems, and everything in his desire to help the one who's always giving him the head and who's always helping him. So I think here's my proposal, too, is that according to these primary protection doctors, they take on greater responsibilities and that's how we relieve these seniors and that we're going to get a lot of us here in a couple of years into that category of colleagues and associates. And it is certain that the other problem is the one that has been crystallised through this law by the issue of this suspension in Article 7, the suspension in Article 221(3) and (4) and the reduction of that vehicle power, i.e. the abolition of that item. And because of this, some Europeans have been told here before the standard, and I guess we knew a year ago what European standards are, so maybe if there were problems with tourists or I don't know who to find some other categories and yet prefer here, here I am more potent than these older drivers to find ways so that maybe a year should be a time when these young drivers should have some kind of limit on them that they don't have to drive these strongest machines right now and then have a chance to make some kind of problem with their young adrenaline. So here's the other thing that was most discussed here and I think that by respecting this that tourism because we still have to help and our interest is that tourists come to Croatia and give importance to tourists, but that maybe here's at least a year. Because it's been unfair so far, I said it a year ago, the man who passed at 23 has a year's limit, and the one who passed when he was 18 has a 6-year limit on not being allowed to drive such a strong machine. And maybe it was supposed to be said for a year, so no matter what year you pass your driver's license, it's restricted for you to drive on such strong machines and heavy vehicles. Here, that's the two things. And a few more things here and through a public debate have been seen to have been given as observations. But here's what my colleague Djurovic was saying. I don't see any reason why this fell from 50 to 45 km an hour. I don't know if that's the same thing as a European directive. It's not? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right. But well, for the engine to be five miles an hour more or less I think it's if it's not some kind of directive that shouldn't go on that. From this public debate, and I have received a lot of remarks in the conversation with people, and otherwise this problem is still related to Article 208(4) and our Article 4 in the changes regarding these professional arrangements. In the current law in Article 208, we had these authorized interrogators that they could only be persons with completed university studies. And now here, it's time to have a lot of private high schools, here in Zagreb I think we have 40 or 30 thousand at least students studying at private high schools and they are professional specialists and they are now demoted. So, all who have completed the university but have the same 300 ECTS points as those who have completed the university study that in this article as well as in these public discussions and observations that have come, means in Article 208, in this paragraph 4, where we are throwing out this part of those categories that become authorised interrogators to add to this article means where pre-graduate, graduate and university studies are written, integrated pre-graduate and university studies to supplement the text and/or pre-graduate professional and specialist professional studies of the traffic direction. And in this way, it would allow all people who have graduated from vocational schools, higher education schools and universities to participate equally, that as well as these people with a university vocational study can be authorised by interrogators. I won't give it up as an amendment but I think here the ministry, the people of the ministry who are here today. Because if you look at the answers you got in the public debate, they're a little funny. No one gets into any trouble, we all say, so I don't know. Because in the state administration, officials are equal to professional studies and university studies at jobs. So I don't see that even here we couldn't accept it and give these people the chance that even people with professional studies could be these authorized interrogators. It's not some science that can't be accepted right now. It is not clear to me either that it is being thrown out or that it is being dragged in as against the solution of the second-degree procedure that must be an administrative dispute. I do not know how this can be legal, but if there is a legal possibility that there is an example against the solution adopted in the driver’s licence procedure in Article 9 that refers to the article in Law 224, no appeal can be made but an administrative dispute can be initiated. Well, it's simpler for all of our citizens that if some other law does not prohibit him from making a complaint and that there is a second-degree senior or someone who can respond second-degree unless it's a conflict that only the police can't give the first and second-rate solution. That man does not have to go into administrative dispute because the administrative dispute is complicated for ordinary citizens and that ordinary citizens do not have to go into new spending. I think it would be reasonable to accept. I also did not understand this article 15, meaning to amend the current law, i.e. Article 284 paragraph 5. when we say that if the first degree or health capacity is considered to be something problematic in the first degree, okay to go to a second-degree health commission, it is a good proposal, but I do not understand that in that period the driver is deprived of the driver's license. Because there's no power of acts, and if it's not the power of the act then it would be logical that at that time until that act is a power of power, if we opened second-degree to not withdraw the license. I don't know what that could be, what could happen to him, could be for whatever reason the health care guy gets, and in the second degree, he gets it, and then he loses his driver's license for a period of time. I may not have quite understood the proposal, but here's what's possible would be so much more laity logical that by the end or the power of the entire procedure if he didn't lose his driver's license. And here, and every time there's talk about the Traffic Safety Act, then old questions and old things open up, so in this public debate, again, why don't some of us have, why don't we have the possibility that two vehicles have one traffic permit, that two vehicles have one plate. This applies to rural areas where people have vehicles that serve them to go to the field, to do some work, to take the tools to their processing fields, and now he has to register that vehicle. I think that if there's an understanding, it's said here that ten other ministries should be consulted or some other issue related, but we're here to try to make our citizens' lives simpler, easier and cheaper. And I know here in Dalmatia there are people who have another vehicle that he has to register with him to go into the field, to take there a motocultivator or to take the shovel and the masquerade to the field then he has to now, his new car is too bad to use for it, but then he has to register the one he doesn't know the old golf course that's still in good shape. Let it pass the technical examinations, but if the same vehicles as in Austria, it is stated here that it has such a possibility in Austria and it would be logical if it were possible to enable it here. And another detail that was interesting in the public debate, which is to distinguish the responsibility of the driver and the owner of the vehicle. So you have some kind of twist, you have a worker, and now there was a good example of that worker being taken away or some restriction put on the driver's license, but we're always punishing that owner because that driver over there has some problem, and the owner of the craftsman can't see. Especially in us is the situation that the owner of the craftsman, people are doing their job, he's a topper or a baker and now he's going to go see if they're his employee as his driver's license. So if it is possible not to punish those owners of the crafts, but if a driver has done something, the owner of the craft fits whether the vehicle is technically correct and not that it responds because that driver has some kind of misdemeanour and if it's a possibility. And when we talk, and today it's popular, about officials, then maybe you should think about the speed limit of officials, they drive when they drive officials through cities, so when you see that they run 180 an hour, I don't think that's necessary either. For this law to be found here, too, because there is no reason, the president, the prime minister, is going through Split now, and everyone is going through it. We Splits are like that, we don't like any authority, but now he's going 150 an hour, driving through town, why? Then this official comes, and then he says hello to the citizens there. So he had no danger there that someone would kill him because he said goodbye to the citizens in five minutes. So they can limit their driving a little bit through the cities. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110822	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110823	Comrade Sanader, I fully agree with your debate. And I remember very well on July 13, last year when you also represented this opinion, and I'm glad that here we succeeded because of the 220 thousand drivers to make this amendment to the law. And in order not to hang out in the air if we were working on our own personal interest, you saw me cycling in Koprivnica, I don't have a driver's license or drive, so I'm just talking about the interest of the 65+ population. But I was more affected by one change last year where bicycles were banned from talking on their cell phones and I don't know what kind of traffic threat it is? Because he also spoke to me with one hand, rode one hand, talked on his cell phone or licked ice cream, but the ice cream wasn't banned.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110824	The answer to the replica of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110825	Well, we really talked about it last year, but maybe we should have asked for headphones to work. You know, if you're riding a bike, you have, and now it's pretty cheap and all these phones have hot headphones, so maybe we should suggest that we let ourselves ride with headphones, because I see a lot of young people riding a bike. And he's a reasonable deputy minister, so he'll understand, he knows what it's like in Split that everyone rides bikes and mobiles, but they all have headphones. Well, that's a good suggestion for Amanda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110826	Another rapist Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110827	Thank you. When it comes to the cooperation of doctors and police, the Law on Medicine of Article 22 defines the obligation to report. Obligations of reporting refer to death, physical injuries caused by violent acts, and suspicions of neglect or abuse of minors, infirmities, and others. So it's an obligation to report to doctors under the Law of Medicine. Everything else would actually be a violation of the law and a man could fall neatly in the case of a lawsuit, not to mention the moral aspect of you meeting and ethically when you go to the police to report that someone had surgery, whether they were suffering from any malignancies, whether they were taking drugs, whether they were on radiation, whether they were receiving chemotherapy, for example, which significantly makes it difficult for someone to participate in traffic, whether they had Alzheimer's or something like that. So you need to put yourself in the position of that relationship and it would be completely out of the question which of us could come to the police and write about a report about his health problems, and on the other hand, you who write it don't know the driver's evaluation rule, so you're not the one who can assess the criteria for driving. So all that you've reported to the police can be insufficient for him to be incapable of driving a motor vehicle, but that's why there's medical work, people who specialize in implementing the regulations the way the legislator brought them in. And then you take him, you pay him, and this one at the end of the procedure says that a man can drive a vehicle, and you sent him, I mean it's completely pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110828	The answer to the replica of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110829	Okay, you said that... but here we talked about these over 65 years old and I think it should be my primary health care doctor's duty to help me. If I've given him confidence I've chosen him to be mine, I can choose who I want if I choose a primary health care doctor I think he could help me in a way that I don't need to waste it, I'm looking at it like that. I pay for my head every month I want to go or I won't go it doesn't matter, but I have to go to labor medical now, I have to pay 400 kuna for that medical examination, but I'm healthy and my primary protection doctor knows that I'm healthy and I'm looking at it that way, not in a way that he's some kind of cop spy, so he's gonna be delivering some information to the police. So I said and in the debate we can watch things on two sides, I'm looking at it this way, if I'm over 65 years old I have my doctor, he'll report if I have to sign. Well, all people will sign off on him if it's better for his primary protection doctor to report to the police or if he had to go for a test every year and spend another 400 kuna, and his pension is 1,600 or 2,000 kuna. Here in this context, not in the context that these primary protection doctors would be any kind of police informants and then someone would be calculating with them and the proposal would be the one I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110830	The new replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110831	Thank you very much. My colleague Sanader, since we are colleagues, Đurović and I also have an objection to this debate in this sense when you mention the constant chieftains and we pay the chieftains, etc. Yes, we're paying for the chieftain but also for the doctor to keep the patient's secret on Hippocratic oath. And when he discovers it to the police and delivers it, then it's no longer preserved, then I don't know why a man pays his head. So, here we are in some matter of one I won't tell a misunderstanding but in any case there are things that might be able to distinguish some states or diseases that are possible to say, but there are things that I can't even tell the police. It's not very good-looking. The other thing is, when you talk about young people who are limited by the power of an 80KW engine, you know that it was before the restriction that young people after 23 hours had to go with an older person. And then I was asked by students from Vinkovci by high school students, and how come those who take their place go to school for truck drivers and take that school at the age of 19, 20 and drive trucks to Germany, Iran, Iraq, Turkey without a problem, and those who drive a personal car have restrictions. Is that too much at all? So the 19-year-old boy ends up in D category and runs a truck to Iran, Germany, passes a state exam and he leaves, and this guy can't drive a small personal car with 80KW as he wants to say. And then I have to repeat this too much of my colleague Djurovic's question, so maybe I should add this 120km limit except on the highway where there is a greater limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110832	The answer to the replica of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110833	So here when I was talking about primary protection doctors, I'm convinced that pensioners all over 65 years old or those who want to sign would rather have his doctor report to the police if he has problems than that he pays 400 kunas every year in that context, and certainly not that doctors are some kind of informants and that they're passing on some information to the police. And what about the truck, I think the legislators and the public debate say that you don't think a truck or he can speed up as fast as that vehicle a little bit or he can drive at speeds, well he's even more dangerous because he's huge and even less fast when he makes some kind of scissors, he'll do much, much more damage than this one. But I don't think that's very comparable because these wrinkled, but unfortunately old vehicles are loaded, which our young people unfortunately because of the standards they buy us are used outside and which are very, very questionable technical correctness but the strong machines they are in danger and it was certainly an idea when this bill is in the process in this sense and when it's been discussed for a long time. Here I am in the debate I said it might be logical to say a year's limit or this after 23 hours and all. We all want to raise our children to be neat and not put their lives in danger. And all of these suggestions and this whole debate is in this sense to try to help save youth from being made because if you look at the statistics of the dead in the last 10 years, so when you see all the measures that have been put on the road in the last 10 years, or look at me, I know in Dalmatia when someone used to go with a helmet on his bike, everyone's laughing at him, and now you don't see anyone without a helmet or laugh when they see someone without a helmet what happened to him. So that's good all this is done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110834	The last replica of Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110835	Thank you very much. Comrade Sanader is certain that all of us are the most affected by the death-related youth on our roads, and that is why today, most of the debaters have actually pointed to this restriction, the abolition of the restrictions on the strength of cars that are actually driven by young people. And that's where I can agree with you with your concern, with the abolition of actually these provisions. Therefore, we are all tasked with working on the safety of young people in transport if something is lifted. And what you just said before, various examples and we see examples in other countries and measures that we've been taking so far, when we compare to the statistics that are happening, then we see where we are. Therefore, I would not say that the problem is just that it concerns this law, I think the problem is broader and you mentioned the parents earlier, and here I agree with the social community and other laws etc.. Therefore, we must continue to work on this, and we must find ways to work for the safety of our young ones. When you look at young drivers then you can say that they are characterized by reckless driving and phones, text messages and cell phones and alcohol, very often drive without belts, I don't know, inexperience that threatens themselves and other traffic users. However, I would point out here, I would just mention, let's just say in Switzerland that fast ride that most often young people do won't come to mind. Why? Because it can never happen that a young man drives on the road so he doesn't get on patrol. So I think it takes a lot more patrol, a lot more punishment to actually root out these things. He mentioned a helmet a little earlier that now it's very strange what, if someone drives without a helmet. But that's precisely because the actions kept going, the penalties kept going, and that's why they're actually used to wearing those helmets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110836	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110837	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, and I think that's what we all agree on, and what I said in the back part, I absolutely care about young people because we were all young. A young man, a young guy wants to see a girl, he wants to show himself to a girl, and if his hair isn't good, he's got a good engine to drive a little faster, and then he's got a good car or a girl, and he wants to show himself to a guy, and that's why it's logical to discuss and see. But unfortunately, statistics have shown you over the years how many young people get hurt. And responsible society must be in all segments, not only in this segment by police and this punishment because it is the most unpopular but unfortunately it must be that, but we must have the whole society, all segments of school, family. The family is trying to try to influence young people. From a family education that is certainly the most important but also society as a whole to show what is negative, it points out as negative and not to point it out. Unfortunately for young people, these role models are often bad, and then the one driving fast as it went that I can, and from that comes all these problems. But here's if we're all unique in these attitudes and the whole society is doing our best, as statistics show in the last 20 years, although the number of people killed in traffic has dropped, the fewer traffic accidents, then we're sure to get results with these measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110838	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the esteemed Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110839	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I want to talk about the Transport Safety Act. I will focus my exposure on the amendments to Article 221 of this Act which deletes paragraphs 3 and 4 and I will try to prove why this would be bad and that we must consider what a colleague has said on behalf of the HDZ Club. Because this provision was introduced in 2008 as a sort of young driver's fuse. We all know what happened in 2008, it was the year that almost the most young drivers died in the last decade. And the question arises whether it is well affected in terms of the definition of a young driver, given that it is then defined in terms of age and related to the power of the engine or the force of the vehicle and then doubts arise as to who the young driver is. Is that the one who can also pass the driver's test at 45 and first start driving that same car of great power. So what's the difference, except let's say that in some kind of person's development, is she equal to 18 or 40. What restrictions were present for that age from 16 to 24 years, i.e. For young drivers? So his license was issued at 10 years of maximum speed today we heard he could drive 80 km per hour, he couldn't drive at a higher speed of 100 km on regular roads or 120 on the highway. Mopedo was supposed to drive 40 miles an hour the most. He shouldn't have started driving at all if he was under the influence of alcohol or intoxicating drugs and in the least, we all know that all other drivers are worth the 0.5 promil. Also, young drivers must not drive a car whose engine power exceeds 80 kilowatts, somewhere around 105 horsepower, and if it manages a car of a stronger engine than the prescribed penalty, it was 1000 kuna. Some other things that a young driver by law should not have worked for, and that was tow any connected vehicle on the car and organised to carry children. These were limits set in 2008 and, through changes to the law, slightly modelled by 2014. What does the death data say for 2013? Since the '90s, 1360 people died on the roads, the number of victims decreased by 3.7 times, i.e. In 2013, there were 367 deaths. The number of accidents caused by young drivers is also significantly reduced. For example, in 2008, there were 10 thousand and 574 such accidents with 160 deaths and 2013. 4000 390 accidents with 62 fatally injured young drivers, about 63% less. This was also addressed by the Constitutional Court on request to assess the constitutionality of Article 221, which was then set up by a group of MPs from the 2008 opposition. The Constitutional Court states in its decision that it distinguishes three categories of drivers. So the new drivers who got the driver's license under the old law, the ones who are now subject to the bans and restrictions of the new law that were then passed and those full-fledged drivers, means young drivers who passed the driver's license or got a driver's license during the new law's entry into force. As regards the restrictions on 80 kW, the Constitutional Court ordered the police to conduct statistics and to inform them by 1.3.2015, as observed in the application of that provision. So they said we'll review the constitutionality of that provision in Article 221 when you provide us with the information. But in that decision, they said that you could amend this law if you felt it necessary to amend this article too. So they gave you permission but anyway after your... I don't know if you did, they're still going to have to evaluate that constitutionality of that article and they're going to have to evaluate it because they're committed. What does the new law say? The Government repeals the 2008 disputed provisions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. What did young drivers resent on this bill? I think they were in one big part of right after all. This is the inequality of young drivers in front of the law in view of age and experience. Someone who passed the 24-year-old exam could have driven a stronger car right away. Someone who did it when he was 18 or 19, which is the most common category of driving exams, had to wait five or six years to drive a car in a stronger category. Many professions are related to car management, and this young man who was licensed simply was uncompetitive in the labour market given the restrictions on the power of vehicles that were allowed to drive. And what might have been the most common problem was, in the family mostly more or less, there's always one car. If the driver could not gain the experience of driving such a car, he simply did not have to drive it and it was one of the biggest obstacles for them. The death toll in 2014 was 307 people, so 16.6% less than in 2013 when they died as I said 368. This is an indication that this law, along with the National Road Safety Programme, has made some major shifts and that we have approached that desired figure. It's never good, but by 2020 it's 5 people per 100,000. I think that's what we should keep trying to do. Trend reductions were also recorded in young drivers. In 2014, in accidents caused by young drivers, 36 people died – 31 people less than in 2013. In these accidents, 385 were seriously injured, and it was easier for 1897 persons, which is less by 20 and 12%, respectively, than in 2013. So we're talking about young drivers who still need to put on a certain fuse or try to protect them because it has to be the intensity of every law. In 2008, we had a total of 664 people, and I say 2014. 308 or almost 100% less. So when a law was passed that changed later, we have almost a reduction of 100% less dead than in 2008. The number of young drivers killed in 2008 was, what I said at the beginning, 167. Last year we heard 32. It's a big deal for this country. And we have to observe the law right in that segment because statistics don't lie. By applying the new law, the National Transport Safety Programme, enhanced controls, higher penalties, but also better road infrastructure, better cars of all classes, a simple number of young drivers, the number of young drivers killed has been reduced continuously. I say, in 2014, there were 36 young drivers killed, almost five times less than in 2008. We don't need to talk about what one tragedy means and the loss of every young life. Today we are discussing a law that moves a barrier related to the force of a vehicle operated by a young driver with a B category. I think because of certain doubts and possible injustices, it's the same good to do. So maybe these relationships should be removed, but still leave some barrier that would concern the experience of a young driver associated with the power of the vehicle in a way that every new driver who passes the driving test still takes at least two years or at least a year of a deadline in which he will be allowed to drive even stronger cars. And I wouldn't tie that up with the year because the definition of a young driver may be wrongly laid out in the draft of the law, because I passed an 18, 25 or 32-year-old exam, you're an inexperienced driver in the first place, regardless of your psychophysical condition and you have certain limitations and you can say in traffic something that ends up wrong. I don't think such a restriction may be crucial but I say it again was a fuse and the young accepted it. The young people accepted the heavy will, but they accepted it and adapted to not driving stronger cars because they were simply banned, and they paid fines. And I think statistics clearly show when what happens because police are doing it very well, and accidents are happening right now with the power of cars and speed. So we've got a vehicle landing off the road, we've had 2008. 54 young people, 2013 28, so the dead were killed. On foot, 2008 was 37, 2013. Six. Vehicle crash 2008 37, 2013 Nine. So you see in some way the power of the legal provision. What are the causes of traffic accidents I say when it comes to irregular speed? In 2008, we were 18, now 6 in 2013. Speed under inappropriate conditions 2008. 81, 2013 31. So it clearly tells us what happens to strong vehicles, speeds, and times when it happens. Maximum number of young drivers' accidents from 22 to 06 hours with fatalities. It's all clear. Now, are we going to liberally let a young driver get into that car with strong forces at 18 now, let's say "cubicase," a lot of kilowatts or horsepower, and let him drive or we'll leave him for at least a year, think about it, get ready for a car like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110840	We're moving on to replicas. First respected Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110841	Thank you, Vice President. Well, a distinguished colleague in your debate has, above all, pointed out the really important signs of this law, and as far as young drivers are concerned, where you really said that there is a little bit of an unequal relationship whether it is a young driver at his age or after years of training driving in that part. And I think that part of the law should be further defined. You mentioned well that there are major problems, so if a young driver passes a driving test then he would have to buy himself a car, and the question today is the possibility of buying a car and this young driver if he has a car in a family that is stronger power cannot possibly gain experience in driving. And by the time he was 24 years old, he was three, four years old, five years old, and he must have had bigger driving problems than he started driving right away. But you mentioned one thing that I would especially point out that there are other factors that depend first on the number of young drivers you well mentioned. One of the important things, which is that we need to work on first of all prevention, prevention in the framework of car schools. The question is how many of those car schools have been trained. It happens to you that some young driver in his part of school never goes out on the highway, never goes through any conditions and opportunities waiting for him in real traffic. Cars should have such a system of education that he really can learn to drive as such in all conditions. It depends a lot and above all on... equipment, because I believe that much has contributed to both local administrations, cities, municipalities and roads for infrastructure, nogosts, for lighting and quality horizontal and vertical signalling. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of this contributes to better road safety and, of course, what is important should work much more with young drivers because within cities and municipalities there is a Council for Communal Prevention that really speaks about what key programmes, projects together with police administrations to deal with their activation So a lot of prevention is in that section to reduce the number of accidents. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110842	Replication response, Reverend Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110843	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, certainly prevention I did and stated is not without reason achieved this kind of progress. Although I say every life, lost life is a tragedy but there is a good law that has been upgraded, there is a national transport security programme that is five years old and delivers results in five years. And now it may be a little too brave for me to let the amendments to Article 221 make everything that we have defended and adapted to those young drivers in some way to that fact, even though I say it wrongly perhaps then defined what a young driver is because it was only at age and there may have been the most injustice. And I think I should think this through and leave a certain barrier for a year or two at their discretion to make it possible to acquire. Because yet driving is a certain skill and experience not only a psychophysical state, mind or just a head. And to simply make it possible for these people to still get through a weaker car, weaker strengths of a certain experience, and then with the passing of a year or two days normally to such a person and take it off. Because this is just how we're going to get into a situation where since we passed this law, everything is free. And let's remember I say it again in 2008 and that's why the Transport Safety Act was made entirely new with great restrictions. I'm not going to mention what happened. It also had its own judicial course, etc. That it doesn't happen to us tomorrow again and then we say again who's to blame, and everyone's always looking for the guilty one. And the government here has given itself the opportunity to be the exclusive culprit has removed all the barriers and any fuse. I think you should leave it anyway because I say in relation to the driving experience not for long.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110844	Frano Matušić will now be replicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110845	Thank you. Well, my colleague, there's actually a lot of things that are relatively here in these proposals and can be helped in a variety of ways. Finally, the goal should be to really protect all drivers in transport not only drivers, but all who participate in traffic in some way. But first of all, the prevention of tragedies that were really a cause for law-making, which in 2008 eased and in fact that large percentage of the young drivers who died, actually reduced significantly. But when you say a car of 80 kilowatts or 105 horsepower, it's a very relative term. When you have a little car like Fiat 500 with 105 horsepower, it's a chaser. So you have these smaller cars that can be very loaded with 105 horsepower can be very much in Renault Clio, for example, or such an example as I mentioned. So that's one relative term. It's another issue with you when someone passed the driver's test, but I've already suggested it. I am so that young drivers, in the sense of only passing a driving test, are given a temporary permit, a temporary permit that would be translated into right after a year, after two, but also under certain tests that would prove that the driver had actually mastered the ride. Because it's gonna be hard for someone to get over a 30-hour drive and it's gonna be hard to be a good driver on the highway or anywhere else. I drive every day, so I don't tell you what I see in driving and how drivers behave but it has nothing to do with young drivers but generally the way they drive. You have slow drivers that are sometimes more common cause of traffic accidents than these fast drivers. You've got slow drivers who never get punished by the police, although there's a penalty for slow drivers, but I've never seen them. Someone builds a 20 car column. And the police, they don't move him from the side, etc. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] So a lot of things are relative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110846	The last replica Tomislav Klaric. Tomislav Klaric, replica. You want to replicate or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110847	Here's a distinguished colleague, Boric, you've highlighted two important problems that so far the law has not devoted itself to exactly what it means if someone passes the driver's exam at 25, 30, 40, 45 years, he has virtually no limitations whatsoever. The one who lays at 18 has a limit to 24 years old. The fact is, as unfair as this may have been to young drivers, this statistic you've read is irrefutable. And in any case, what is good in the existing law can be adjusted to reduce these conditions but it certainly has to remain one such part. When someone talks about cars, here is Mr. Matušić mentioned earlier, that even weaker cars can achieve high speeds. The fact is that a car with 80 horsepower can reach a speed of 140 and of 150 and of 160 but the feeling of that speed in such a car is not the same as in some BMW, an AUDI of 140 and 150 when practically, and especially on open roads, you have no sense of driving at all, see for yourself when you're driving a highway unless you're looking at a speedometer of 150, 160 feels like you're driving 110 unlike cars to 100 horsepower allowed by young drivers. In any event, this provision should not be abolished in terms of gaining experience, except for professional drivers who completed that part of schooling and gained some experience. But in any case, this standard, or statistics, should bring that ultimate goal of not being greater than those that are so far, to reduce that percentage. And this statistics that you have presented is in any case the one that puts the law so far in the right sense of the word that the laws must be you to protect and the life of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110848	Replication response, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110849	Thank you very much. A colleague Klaric, so the fact is that a lot of things are allowed with adulthood, means 18 years old, but let's just say this is one of the laws that just at the age of 18 made one restriction, and he was certainly not then admitted to young people in exactly the best way, because yet they like how we heard today squeezed the gas just as counterpart Novak said those bloated saws as they call it and like to show that they are mature that they can, that they can go faster and better than someone. However, statistics are inexorable and it shows that compared to 2008 the reasons i.e. We have types of accidents associated with speed and strength, and I've read them, landing vehicles off the road, running into pedestrians, crashing vehicles in the cross-country. Then there were 147 fatalities, in 2013, such accidents were 43. Causes, up to two causes, irregular speed and speed inappropriate conditions. 2008 99 such deaths, 2013. 37. I don't think we need to be big or experts that we can't read those figures and yet find that through the amendments to this law, that is. the final proposal to react and to leave one modified form of this article and some limitation that will be related to the experience associated with kilowatts. By the power of the vehicle, not by age, because then we will come to what we had again the dissatisfaction and some of the unfair situations that had arisen. Because I say the young driver is clumsyly defined and he was a young driver when he was 50, 35 or 18, in terms of his experience, and there's really something to do to make sure that this law doesn't remain without any barriers, and then next year we ask ourselves what we did when we see statistics?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110850	The right to an individual debate will now be used by a respected colleague of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110851	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So, I'm going to do a part of that, maybe repeat some of the things that some of my colleagues said before or pointed at them, but here I'm going to go in line. Regarding the amendments to this Road Safety Act, which refers to the problem of young drivers. I'm talking about it now and because I talked about it and when this law was passed here in the Croatian Parliament and when we were having discussions about what it means for young drivers, why is the restriction for young drivers and then a debate that actually opened that I don't think is finished, and that's why the restrictions, I'm talking about the cubicity of the engine, motor vehicles, so just for young people, ageing from 18 to 24, what is with the category or concept or something that this law doesn't know, and these are new drivers? I'm not going to tell the underexperienced drivers now that it's not in the law, but new drivers. And in fact, we were already discussing it and making suggestions, so in some future, this law should just recognize that category. Because like most of you who have debated here, and I believe that someone who passes a driving test at the age of 18, at age 25, 30 or 65, he's new, he's primarily a new driver with probably some additional limitations that he's wearing, whether he wants me to admit it or not. Some of the driving restrictions carry this youth, and some of them wear an older age, I won't say age, but they do. I mean, we all need to be aware of that. So I'm actually sorry that never all these years, and we're about this law in 2008 if I'm not mistaken is the first law, and then we've had a few changes, which we haven't actually been able to introduce into this new driver's category until today. Whether this new driver will only have a speed limit, whether it will be limited by the cubicity which seems to me to be somehow the years passing and the development of the automotive car industry that it will all be less possible but we also think about electric cars one day. So the development of the automotive industry will go so that perhaps in the future we may have to make some more changes. So, I sincerely advocate that one day we enter into this law this category of new driver who will have certain restrictions, even with regard to this speed, the speed limit that now remains for that category of young drivers, according to this bill. And they are like those definitely discriminated against all others who for the first time actually get a driver's license or, say, pass a driving test in 50 years of life because driving is a good part and acquired experience that you have, which you get with age. That is why it seems to me, and in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, my colleague Boris spoke of this provision of the law not being declared against the constitution, although it was on the assessment of constitutionality but the Constitutional Court found certain things that the legislator had warned about, and one of the important remarks was the issue of treating young drivers who are here Croatian citizens and who therefore live in Croatia and young such drivers who come to Croatia as tourists in passing like this. So it's also that everyone needs to be treated in the same way. And it seems to me that it was also the biggest problem for the legislator to achieve that he in Slovenia, Austria or I don't know where he can drive a big car at 19 years old and in Croatia he can't do it, and you're practically punishing him, you're not punishing him, because he's got different regulations there, and he didn't finally come to this situation with his own guilt. So in that part, I understand in some way and the pain of the legislator, and I personally consider it, because even then I have argued that I should not have, that it's okay and that it's okay to move this limit of cubicity out of the law, but I'm very much in favour of remaining a speed limit. A colleague, Boric, spoke about statistics on how thanks to this very article of the law, there was a reduction in accidents involving young people, the number of deaths, etc. but I think that this must be seen within some of the other factors that we have in recent years and much better roads than highways, but also these other roads still much better newer cars that our citizens still drive, hence, and plus all the actions that the MUP has worked for all these years, especially for the last 10 years and through the national Transport Safety Strategy and various actions to media etc.. So there's a set of multiple factors. So I personally imitate this part that relates to the abolition of the restrictions on cubic matter. I prefer the remaining speed limit, the speed limit, and in some ways I appeal that maybe all together one day we get to know this new driver's category no matter when we pass the driver's exam. And finally related to the category of older, our older citizens of drivers, so I think that certain additional restrictions after a certain age must also be made when it comes to medical examination and for drivers. I agree, however, that 65 years is too low a limit. And I agree with those who say we are increasing the retirement age, the age of life is increasing, so the life span is longer, and fellow Djurovic has made one proposal, a certain amendment has arrived, but I think a certain limitation, or an additional need to carry out a health check after certain years of life that must exist because you know what we all are, I guess that in this room are more or less all drivers, I have a driver's license over 35 years. I used to drive the relays, not today, today I might do it for a humanitarian purpose. And when we talk about family doctors and whether they will or won't give someone documentation if there's been a change in health. I don't know if someone ever sent some of my visual problems and some of the restrictions that I noticed I had in my night drive, but I did my best, so I took care of it, too. But my family doctor, as far as I know, never had to go for any medical examination. So, I'm also talking about whether or not I have a certain age or not, and even that part should actually be seen at all how realistic it is that the provision of the law that exists now is that any such change should be delivered to the police administration, could ever or could not be reached, here's my colleague Đurovic talking about the obligation of a doctor and when any medical documentation can be handed over to someone. Here, in this sense, I support the amendments to the law, but I say personally that this article that speaks of the abolition of the health review obligation for elderly people should not stand like this. I'm about to raise that age and definitely shouldn't be watched just because it costs 300, 500 or 800 kuna. So let's ask why it costs so much. And maybe that part could make a move, and then that review would also be available to those with lower incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110852	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Four replicas have been reported. The first replica of the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110853	Thank you. My colleagues, we agree more or less on these legal provisions and on new drivers as well. This should be defined in some way only I think someone said that in Slovenia there is a temporary permit that lasts 2 years. And that would be the most elegant way to solve it, and we wouldn't be questioning whether someone was young 18, 19, 20, etc. You have new drivers who pass when they're 18 and don't have a car and don't drive for a year or possibly drive two, three times a year from parents, friends, etc. What kind of driver is that after a year? What does he know about driving after 30 hours if he's done all 30 hours? Therefore, there should be some way to have an additional test with this temporary permit to drive for two, a year and then under special conditions where real reflexes and reactions are tested and reactions to the conditions of what happens daily to check the actual willingness of drivers to be placed on the market or for normal driving. These limits are now limited to 80 on the roads, otherwise 90 is out of town or on a fast road is a 100 limit, and so is the limit on the fast road. And on the 120, and otherwise it's 130, so it's not some significant speed difference. I'd like to say one more thing, I'd like to open up one topic regarding road closure for winter conditions. The road closure for winter conditions is nowhere in the euro. In particular, it closes under St. The hands of the highway and the people are sent up to 10 times the road through Gračac and with trucks and are equal to the impact of the barrels, even worse in some sections, etc. which is illogical. So that's a matter of security. I see that here in the public debate it was open and that question, it seems important to me that the highway is ensured that it can normally be trafficked in the winter conditions of the office, trucks is a problem probably because of the big surface, but a personal car has no reason to ban traffic from a strong storm.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110854	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110855	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it's worth trying to find the most favourable solution, aware that it's probably the one who passed the exam in the 40th year probably has a car or plans to buy it right away that he's going to start driving somewhere else, I'm saying sometimes also at 18 more everyone went to take the driving exams so whether they had a car or not but that was what you're saying along the way. So there are probably different solutions, it's worth the effort, and I think in that sense this law would be better. And as for closing our highways at a time when such unfavourable winter conditions are. I've also found myself x times and more times in the storm strikes, primarily because on the northern Adriatic, the storms are beating hard, and I have to say that I've been in a situation where I was sorry that they let me go across the Krk Bridge without putting him away for all the traffic. So I wouldn't probably go in there after all, the assessment and certain traffic experts, etc. that certain shocks are either caused by snow or by snow or I don't know what these are, and I suppose the inability in the winter service line is because sometimes there are so many extreme conditions in terms of rainwinds, etc. I personally understand they're closing down that road. Whether the other road is safer or not, we can discuss it again. But I know that on the old road through Gorski Kotar from Zagreb via Karlovac to Rijeka I have never stayed because of the storm or because of the winter conditions and never got off that road,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110856	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Boric, replica. They didn't get off that road,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110857	Thank you very much. Fellow Sobol we all talk today more or less all clubs have set a basic goal, which is to protect drivers of young and older means to increase traffic safety and to change the law, it's some basis for a premise that everyone started to debate. And now it is justified to read whether we are protecting this misdefined definition of a young driver in a way that removes all barriers through erasing Article 3 and Article 221(4) or increasing the possibility of increasing the uncertainty in the transport and mortality of young drivers and is that the only and the main cause. It's not safe, we all know you can drive and 190 at 45 as well as at 20, but still the state has the strength to say we've set up a certain barrier. That you don't respect her, more or less, then your problem. But this way without any... you have nothing to say to anyone. Unfortunately, I say the deaths of young people regardless of the law, but there were barriers and now we're running out of anything, and that should be approached in one way that suggests that we will continue to protect some life, safety regardless of the definition, even if a new driver or a young driver. But then we solve it through a year or two experience about driving not at age. But we have to leave it if we want to be serious and call this law the Traffic Safety Act because everything below will be misdefined then because we will return to 2007 and those statistics that the state has tried to jump to by amending the laws of 2008. And then statistics started, but whether everything else and road infrastructure that I said and the national program and better cars and bigger and safer cars etc., but if we tell a young man who is now 18 and got a driver's license to get in a 220 horse car and ride as you wish, you didn't protect him with anything at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110858	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110859	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Boric, we allow him to get into a 220 horse car but we tell him you can't drive more than 120 on the highway and you can't drive more than 80 on the other road. So, we haven't lifted all the restrictions, so the abolishing is moving this cube provision, but this other one remains. I repeat it once again and I point out once again because in the debate you had read the Constitutional Court's opinion on the assessment of the constitutionality that and in the view of the Constitutional Court of that provision in this law were questionable. That is why, if I am not mistaken, certain statistics were sought that the MUP had to deliver to the Constitutional Court. Because let's not forget from the first. Seven. In 2013, we are a member of the European Union, and as we must drive by regulations when we get there, so are they. But when he finds himself in a car that has bigger cubicity, he's a stranger, and you can't take away his driver's license.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110860	Thank you very much. Dear Ljuljana Cvetovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110861	Dear colleagues, we agree that there must be restrictions for young drivers and for older ones, it means for drivers of older age. But we're up for something else. I'll tell you my example. Four months ago, I had to extend my driver's license. You go to a family doctor and he gives you confirmation with your history of an illness that looks about E6, G7, and in that sense. Of course, only doctors can understand that. Then with that confirmation, you have to go to work medicine. There's a psych test, a very short, some icons. Your doctor’s appointment is with your doctor and eye examination because they must determine whether or not you wear glasses when driving. If you're wearing glasses, there must be a picture of you with glasses. And that review costs 350 kuna. We wonder if a family doctor who has been treating you for 30 years can give the same confirmation. He doesn't have to report to the MAP, he doesn't have to be in contact with the police, but I think he knows best what your condition is and what your illness is. What's not sad is that I have a driver's license 46 years from 18 to 65, never had anyone ask me anything, nor my doctor was obliged to at least say whether I had to wear glasses or not to wear glasses to get a driver's license.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110862	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110863	Dear colleagues. So, I think you and I actually agree. I advocate that with a certain age, that at a certain age we must all be in a position to carry out this medical examination of the ability to drive. Is that what you're paying 350 kuna for now? If the problem is these 350 kunas, then let's talk about the price of whether it's too much or too little. It's the price of a psych test, it's the price of eye examination and it's that conversation with the doctor. Can a family doctor do that? Maybe a family doctor can do it, but then in this direction let's look for some solutions and some changes and let's look for solutions in that direction if it's not 65 years, I said in my debate because it's an extended lifetime, because they extend us and years to when you have to work mandatory to go on a full pension, let's say it's 75 years. Or is it 80 years? So in that sense, then leave it in the law. And I don't agree that that's when you do it for 350 or 200 kuna that it's so unbearable that our pensioners can't do it and at the same time we forget how much it costs to get a technical checkup, car registration and compulsory insurance. That's not our problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110864	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110865	Thank you. So I think that this 75-year-old limit is one of the very rational measures of the current work, about some kind of working capacity of the average length of life as one limit that should be considered to take a medical examination or at least to reduce the length of the driving licence. That's why I proposed this amendment. And on the other hand, I've been aiming at this amendment to actually last by that age of driving license for 15 years, not 10 years, as in this proposal. Since it is in accordance with the European Union Regulations, I see no reason why they should not extend it, so it takes 15 years for people to have 5 years longer each time that period to pay that driver's license. And when it comes to this review, I'm practically sure it can't be done by family medicine in any way because the waist is so defined, the medical work is today specializing. And here it's not a health assessment issue, it's a matter of assessing the ability to drive a motor vehicle. That's why there's this specialization of labor medicine, which is why the rules and the whole system of medical work are being issued, so it's designed to assess the specific abilities of whether to carry a weapon, whether to drive a car, whether to work on specific jobs and assess the ability to do such a thing. I'm sure the family medicine won't be able to take any form at all. Because one thing is to assess the health condition and another thing is to decide whether it's a health condition adequately capable of anything else. It's really a job in medicine and the family won't be able to. Therefore, it only participates in this part of the preparatory findings, history and possibly laboratory findings when going to work medicine.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110866	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Deputy Interior Minister Evelyn Tonkovic, on behalf of the government's proposal, will now be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110867	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. I can tell you that it was really interesting, there was this idea, there were some proposals, but now we're kind of tied to this subject of debate today about this law. For the sake of clarification, I would say that in the debate here, the the thesis is that doctors in some way show their patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110868	Excuse me, Deputy Minister, I have a feeling that you think you have the final word, and we have another speaker. ... I told you because you asked, I couldn't judge what you think, I'm... what you're looking for. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then thank you very much. We'll continue when we have another debate. Individual debate, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110869	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wouldn't mind if the deputy minister spoke, though. I'm going to say something and talk about something that fellow respected people didn't say today. A Croatian philosopher says that young people tend to be left-handed because they are more rebellious, stronger, more aggressive, more revolutionary, and so at a more advanced age, that people are more prone to right-handedness, so young drivers should also be seen when they reach cars and normally want to test that car to the limits themselves, which, of course, is often fatal, so in this sense should be understood this debate. I will also mention some of the things said by my colleague Cvetovic and my colleague Djurovic. Let's say I'm wearing glasses, the dioptria hasn't changed in the last 20 years, every five years I have to do a glasses check and it costs me about 320 kuna, and I still have to take my time, you go to an ophthalmologist, then after the doctor's work. With regard to what I want to say, it's about being here as deputy minister, so I'd like him to hear it in particular even though I wrote on two occasions to the ministry, and it's about article 255 of this Road Safety Act. And in fact, what it's about, it's kind of a life thing from practice in life. It is about motor vehicles, tractors and motocultivators, from Konaval area, all islands, Kvarner, Primorje, Istria, Zadar, Sibenik County, Sinja, Imotski, Split-Dalmatia County. Namely, when talking about vehicle technical inspection, those vehicles that drive about 2, 5, 7 and 10 km/h must come from remote locations to the technical inspection stations. The law, however, allowed the technical review to be possible, namely the Technical Review Supervisor can come to the scene, but since these vehicles are not registered all in one day hard for them to have so many employees to do so. So now you can imagine the honorary deputy minister who looks like it when you say from... you're driving towards Imotski, some... Thirty-five kilometers with a motocultivator on... drive. At 4-5 km/h, it takes you 10 to 12 hours to get into a technical inspection station for motor vehicles where then a control man for those vehicles actually does nothing or uses devices at that technical station, or those drums because he can't do it. He actually just looks at that vehicle, you pay for insurance, and you can go home. You have to do it every year. I don't think that's good. I agree with the fact that any motor vehicle coming out of the public road must be technically correct, but let's say that they do so in Bavaria, something in France and Switzerland, that you can make a statement in a public note or in a technical review that your vehicle is technically correct, pay for insurance, and thus you have secured the vehicle and it can participate in traffic. It's a shame to say this isn't covered by this law, so I can't give it an amendment either, but please, if it's possible for you to think about this, regardless of what is allowed by the law that the supervisor can come to the scene, but they don't have enough numbers and normally that it's raining to people, here today, say in Zagreb, you can imagine a warrior who has to drive 20 or 30 km to the station for a technical examination, come back in one day and of course do it again every year. If he doesn't, he'll be fined within 15 days because he didn't report a motor vehicle. So just because he's responsible and wants to pay for insurance and technical checks, we punish him if he hasn't done it in 15 days. So I suggest you think about this a little bit, I'll be very grateful to you if you do that because it's thousands of people who have these motor vehicles and motorcycles, I say most of all to these edges. Perhaps in Slavonia it is less because it is about vehicles that achieve high speeds, so it is possible to carry out a technical examination in one day. But I'm saying this from practice, from what I'm talking to people, I think we should do it. Because I'm saying, on the technical examination of these vehicles, nothing is done except make them digital, insurance is paid, and they have actually met all the conditions and can participate in the implementation. If I help you and those people, I'll be grateful.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110870	Thank you very much, dear colleague. As for young and old revolutionaries, after the session, I'll tell you that. Now on behalf of the government, we have a replica, I apologize. Honorable representative Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110871	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Babic, although not subject to the law, this topic has offered me a line. We in Croatia have a huge problem with technical failures of vehicles moving our roads, colleagues from the Ministry of the Interior know. We have a huge problem with the fact that there are very many unregistered and technically unrecorded vehicles on the roads, much more than in the regulated countries of the European Union, and unfortunately many vehicles that are registered and technically reviewed are questionable technical correctness. In that sense, I do not think that we can facilitate the criteria at the level of the requirement that all vehicles are really technically examined and technically correct, but what I agree on and therefore I use the opportunity to give that part of your debate support, I agree that we should find a way to make this procedure easier for people. There are also mobile cells for technical examination, there are various other variants that could make it easier for people but without repeating any reduction of technical correctness criteria. Because I think our statistics aren't until the end, they don't show up to the end the share of technical regularity, or the failure in accidents. A shock absorber, for example, that prolongs the braking path. So let's say you have an accident that might not have happened if the shock absorbers were completely correct and things that our statistics don't fully show. So we cannot afford to lower the criteria, but we should consider ways to facilitate people’s access to technical review and to meet those requirements that must be met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110872	Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110873	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Coleman, you obviously didn't listen to me. I wasn't talking about motor vehicles, I was talking about working machines, de facto tractors of 4, 5, 7 and 10 km/h and motorcyclists. None of the people I've talked to, so no one's talking about not wanting to pay for the insurance or the technicality of their vehicle. But when you bring that vehicle to the technical inspection station, you don't do anything else, you don't use a single device, you don't use a brake drum, you don't get a exhaust device or I don't know anything else, you just get a digital photo. So, he shoots you, takes pictures of you here, and you pay for insurance and that's it. Of course I agree with that, and you say there's a large number of unregistered motor vehicles. I think it's the law that jumped that within 15 days you have to return the license plate or pay for the insurance. I think it worked out pretty well. But this is really about tractors and motocultivators, and that's where we make big problems for people. So they're not against paying taxes, but they want to pay insurance for their motor vehicle. Because, for the sake of the safety of themselves and other traffickers, it's just that they have to go a long way for nothing, lose one whole day, and I don't think that makes any sense. I can make a public record statement that their vehicle is technically correct and that they respond to it as in Switzerland, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110874	Thank you very much. Now it is the turn of Deputy Interior Minister revered Evelina Tonkovic, the final word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110875	Thank you, President of the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. For the sake of one clarity, so as not to create one false perception in the public or the Ministry of the Interior are interested in data, personal data on patients and citizens, nor do we receive them as such from a doctor. What do we get? We only get a general notice from a doctor that someone is no longer able to drive safely by motor vehicle. This is necessary and sufficient for us to refer, in accordance with the legal provisions of such a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, to and for other transport participants, to an extraordinary medical examination. And therefore, when we get the information back, we absolutely have no knowledge of the diagnosis or the problem of the health care professional who is personally pressuring the person. We just get the belief that he's not capable or capable or he's limited in ability and nothing more than that. It's more about the public. A colleague of the council just earlier set an example that is very interesting. 18 or 19 years old because she says she hasn't had a doctor's appointment in 46 years. At the age of 18 hypothetically we get a driver's license, we go to a doctor's appointment and up to 65 years under the current law no one asks us anything, and in the meantime there is that state of health we know and know of doctors who may be in contact because of some health problems. And now there are two situations why this review may be good or may not be necessary. We've decided at this point that it's not necessary. Yeah, it's possible that this medical examination would immediately identify some kind of health problem, so we could tell a man I'm sorry, but you know you can't go on the market. And what about that group of citizens who are going to perform a medical examination today of any of us because human health is unpredictable, they know better by fellow doctors. Today we can conduct all possible health studies and have a significant change in our psycho-physical status through a very close future maybe tomorrow. It is therefore necessary to insist on the consistent application of this Article. So, on a medical examination, if a medical examination or during treatment determines that the driver suffers from any disease or has a disability that he is no longer able to be a participant in traffic. The doctor who has examined or treated the driver and the chosen doctor is obliged to inform the competent police department accordingly. And what is it, but an imperial zero? And that's how we rescheduled this situation when we said that we no longer needed a medical examination, because if a man who had completed an age limit of 65 or more, he changed his health status, and the doctor knows he's changed. And who'll know first than the doctor? Then the doctor is obliged to carry out this legal norm consistently. And a fine is provided for the legal person from 5000 to 15000 kuna and for the responsible person from 1500 kuna to 5000 kuna. Therefore, nothing harmful will happen to traffic safety by eliminating this obligation for people at the age of 65. I would just once again point out that the medical examination referred to by the Ministry of the Interior, and in accordance with the provisions of the Road Safety Act, does not pay that citizen if he is normally okay with his psycho-physical health. Therefore, it is a burden to pay on someone else in that case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110876	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. That's how we exhausted the list of people reported. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we move on to, there are three proposings, the same law and the agreement is to hold a debate together on all three proposals. ... I didn't see, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now we're not going back to work if you let us finish? Send a written route I'll ask the deputy to consider your replica. Let's decide on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 837. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and Honored Representative Drazen Djurovic. I would like the respected Deputy Minister of the Interior, Evelyn Tonkovic, to come forward. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 5, No. Do you have one? Take it easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110878	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment shall be adopted by the Legislative Committee on Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110879	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 2nd of the same Committee on Article 14, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110880	Amendment of Representative Drazen Djurovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110881	No, no, Amendment No. 2. Article 14 of the Legislative Committee
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110882	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110883	Yes, yes, one accepts the other, I mean it, I would even reflectively say it. Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. We are going to the amendment of Honored Representative Drazen Djurovic, the amendment is only one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110884	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110885	There's only one to go on Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110886	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110887	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110888	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act amending the provision of Article 222(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The road safety law requires that a medical examination is not to be carried out when the driver’s licence is extended unless the medical examination obligation is established by a health certificate on the basis of which the driver’s licence is issued. In order to extend the validity of the driver’s licence after 65 years of life, the applicable Road Safety Act has been prescribed for the purpose of carrying out a health examination, which in practice proved to be an excessive burden on the public and on the basis of which the driver’s licence has been issued. However, it is very important to demonstrate that Article 233(3) is applicable. Road safety laws prescribed by the doctor that if a medical examination or the course of treatment determines that the driver suffers from a disease or has a disability that is no longer capable of being able to manage the motor vehicle by a doctor who has carried out the examination or treated the driver and is obliged by the chosen doctor, it is imperative to notify the patient about it to the police administration or to the station in which the person has the registered residence, or temporary or permanent residence, in order to refer him to an extraordinary health check in accordance with the regulations. We also point out in the end that the proposed amendment does not change the duty to carry out a driver’s health examination unless, after 75 years of life, the driver’s licence would be issued within a shorter period than that laid down in Article 8. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110889	Thank you very much. The applicant for the amendment, the respected representative Drazen Djurovic, is an obvious one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110890	Thank you. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, I think the point was something else, and that's to limit your amendments to the law to the duration of your driving licenses to 10 years, so every 10 years it's gonna take you to make a new driver's license. In accordance with the European Union directives, my amendment was that the driving licence lasted 15 years and this is in line with the European Union regulation which allows national legislation to allow the maximum duration of the driving licence for 15 years. It's actually an intensities, I haven't been in the question of health care at all, and after 75 years, that every 5 years a new driver's license is made, as long as in these amendments to the law, so that's what you've now proposed most of the driver's license lasts for 10 years and every 10 years a new one is made. It wasn't a medical examination at all. So the focus of the amendment is on the length of the driver's license, regardless of the medical examination, and I don't see exactly why it would not last 15 years, and not why all of us, since we passed the driver's license, would go to the death every 10 years to create a new driver's license if European legislation allows us to do so every 15 years in Directive 2006/26. And then I put a period after 75 years because it's kind of a biological age that it still seems every five years, which is kind of appropriate age. And I didn't even look back on the amendment to the medical examinations or this intervention about their abolition.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110891	Are you asking for a vote, Your Honor... Please state the amendment of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority, 13 votes for, 1 abstention and 71 votes against. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour, five abstentions and five votes against, are passed by law P.Z.E. No. 837 in the text as proposed by the Government, together with the amendments adopted. So we agreed to discuss all three proposals together. - Final proposal of the Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 839; - Proposal for a Law establishing the University of the North, first reading, P.Z. No. 745; - MP Natalija Martinčević - Proposal for a Law establishing the University of North, first reading, P.Z. No. 830; - Proposer of Representative Sunčana Glavak The Government of the Republic of Croatia has delivered its opinion on the proposals for parliamentary laws. And the debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Education, Science and Sports, and both the second and third draft laws. Government representative Roko Andricevic is here, on behalf of the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like an introductory explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110893	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected legislators are subject to the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North. The town of Varazdin and the town of Koprivnica cease to be its founders and founder of the station of the Republic of Croatia, and the University of the North continues to work as a public institution. Following the discussion, the Ministry developed a report on the consultation carried out with the interested public on the draft Law on the transfer of founding rights to the Republic of Croatia. After the public consultation was carried out, the ministry referred to the relevant competent authorities for additional consent and, in practice, the law was referred to the procedure and came to the Croatian Parliament. The current state of the University of the North consists of performing 11 study programs of which is one in the biomedical field, 4 programs are in social, 5 in technical and 1 study programme in the artistic field. There are seven professional study programmes and 4 university study programmes. The founding of the University of the "North" was first and foremost achieved the assumptions of the politic development of the higher education network in the Republic of Croatia in the same time a strong contribution to regional development of northwestern Croatia in both economic and cultural and general social terms. In this sense, the process of establishing the University of the North is based on important historical ethnological and cultural assumptions of the development of the north of the Republic of Croatia. Analysing the justification for the development of higher education in the northwestern part of the Republic of Croatia should also take into account the structure of the population, their educational characteristics and make a comparison at national level. The towns of Varazdin and Koprivnica which are the headquarters of the University of "North" compared to the distance from the University of Zagreb gravitate the population of the Varazdin County, Međimurje County, Koprivnica-križevci County and part of Krapina-Zagorska, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska and Virovička-podravska. One of the main objectives of the EU's Europe 2020 strategic document is to reach 40% of higher education in the population by 30 to 34 years by 2020. The Republic of Croatia has set a goal by 2020 to reach 35% of those highly educated in this population. According to the 2011 census, the Republic of Croatia had 26% higher education in this indicator, and the counties of the northwestern part of the Republic of Croatia on average 17% indicating that the north of the Republic of Croatia was lag behind with an average of the rest of the Republic. If the percentage of higher education in the part of that population is particularly observed in the districts which are the headquarters of existing universities, the analysis shows that in all counties other than Osijek-Baranja have a number of higher education averaged or higher than the average of the Republic of Croatia while only Osijek-Baranja County has a higher percentage than the observed counties of the northwestern part of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, it should be pointed out that the platform for the adoption of the Law on Transfer of Property and Founding Rights of the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia is expressed in a comprehensive laboratory on the establishment of the University of the North, which was created in January 2014, which outlined mission and vision of the University and highlighted concrete objectives in its future long-term development supported and based on exact data and indicators. In this area, only some of the significant objectives outlined by the elaborate will be highlighted, which will be possible by the adoption of the Law on Transfer of Property. The main reasons for the establishment and objectives of the University of the North are: the long-term increase in the number of highly educated people in northwestern Croatia, the possibility of access to higher education to more northwestern Croatia, the launch of high-quality scientific research, artistic work and innovation, the strengthening of university contributions in the region through support of industry and economy and social and cultural life in general, the development of international cooperation between universities and possible access to European funds, the launch of a very important professional higher education programme in northwestern Croatia. The town of Koprivnica and the City of Varazdin expressed their consent and support in the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia from 2 March 2015 and 27 February 2015 in order to achieve the goals of the northwestern part of the Republic of Croatia related to an increase in the number of higher education populations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110894	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have one replica of Honorable Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110895	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, in order for this debate to go in some way to say the right direction, I don't think you've answered the key question, which is that a private university is founded with the support of two cities that have promised to finance something, and now all of a sudden it's not going to go, and now this whole funding obligation is practically going to the state. Now, how much permission is it to set up a university in the Republic of Croatia you know that well, and what does it mean if that recipe is to be applied to everyone else? I think that's the key thing that you as a representative of the government had to say about this pay phone. You had to tell me about this phone booth how much money it cost? I remember the famous story about the public private partnership, the construction of sports halls, etc. how it's a great project to end up in the state budget being installed to co-finance these brilliant projects with about 20 or something million dollars a year. I think if we make these decisions then the accounts must be clean and the Croatian public must know exactly how much it costs and how much it will cost. Because if you say that on behalf of the Government, if you don't give that answer then you haven't given a complete answer and I think any debate in this House is too high then.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110896	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports Roko Andricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110897	Dear Representative Shuker, in the process of adopting and adopting the Law on Transfer of Property, already owns us to the University of the North on several occasions and on committees precisely defined the amount of costs of this procedure. So for 2015 it's 5 million kuna, for all the following years it's 10 million and 600 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110898	Thank you very much. We continue with the introduction of the motion for other laws. It is now up to the proposal of the Law establishing the University of the North, first reading, P.Z.BR. 745. Proposer of the law is a respected representative of Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110899	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected professors representatives of the University of the North. The National Party of Reformists believes that the University of the North is one of the most important projects in the long term for Varazdin, for the Varazdin County, the entire northern region and Croatia as a whole. And for that very reason, at the 11th month of last year, I submitted a proposal for a Law establishing the University of the North. I am pleased that the importance and importance of the idea that the University of the North become publicly recognised other political options and that it supported both the government and the government and came up with its proposal, and I believe that today we will reach a consensus in the debate, especially tomorrow in the vote. At the beginning of the presentation, I'll present a few key arguments. First of all, the region is north of the region with over 650 thousand inhabitants who are the only one not owning a state-funded university. With all due respect to the University of Zagreb and the directions it has in northwestern Croatia it is not and can not be enough. So this isn't something we thought of in the north, but we are the last to launch such an initiative. It is important to underline that, with the public universities in our four largest cities of Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka, there is also Zadar, publicly funded by the state, whose university as a public founding since 2002, Dubrovnik, whose university as a public found in 2003 and Pula as a public founding place in 2006. So in Croatia there are already seven public universities of which two on the continent and five in Adriatic cities. One north as a region of 650 thousand so far has not had its university. The southernmost link is another argument, which is the data that the average is higher and more educated in northern Croatia without therefore this index than 10.5%. Only for comparison of Croatia's average without the north is 20% higher and higher educated in the City of Zagreb has more than 30%. This is probably a data that does not know a lot of people, because the perception of the north of Croatia is always different, but these are exact figures that clearly say that the north of Croatia is educated in relation to the rest of Croatia, that this has a strong impact on our economy, on our salaries and on the development of the region as a whole. And that's something we need to change urgently. The special component of this story is again connected to all the so far is the social component, which is a sad fact that unfortunately, even for the mandate of this government, the average salary in Croatia is the lowest in the Međimurje County, which is the last and most recent county, which is the last on average. In exact figures, the Varazdin County is 23.6% and Međimurska is 21.2% below the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. What does that mean? This means that very few parents today can send their children to study in Zagreb or elsewhere. The studio in Zagreb costs a lot. This is what families with an average salary of HRK 3,570 as much as they can certainly afford in Varazdin County. Economic projections show that the average cost of studying outside the housing area or region of dwellings is about 2,500 kuna per month, apartment, directors, transportation, food, no participation in tuition, or provided that the student is in regular status and does not pay tuition. Allowing children to study at home in Varazdin, in Koprivnica tomorrow we hope with the expansion of the university and in Čakovec, Krapina in Križevci we give children whose parents cannot pay for studying outside the home a chance to complete their colleges and to ensure their better future. I've brought it out now, I believe you'll agree, more than strong facts and arguments as to why our northern region needs and must have its own state-funded university. Furthermore, what is a vision and what is an idea and what are the goals that the University of North wants to achieve. First of all, it is a long-term increase in the number of highly educated people in northwestern Croatia. As I have already pointed out, the current percentage of the highly educated population in northwestern Croatia is extremely unfavourable and uncompetitive. So the already mentioned number of only 10.5% high and higher education 5.62% of the population completed one of the university study programmes, and 4.54% of the population completed the expert study programme. Such an educated structure makes the region of the north impossible in economic development, predetermined exclusively for low-accumulated processing industries such as textiles, skin processing, wood processing in which our citizens can only achieve minimal incomes, which is clearly demonstrated on average by the wages for which I have already stated that they are the lowest in Croatia and it is clear that these are related processes. An increase in higher education will make assumptions for the faster and more successful development of the region in each respect. Second, it is possible to access higher education to a larger number of northwestern Croatian residents. Currently, only from the area of Varazdinska and Koprivnica-križevci County, more than 3,000 students are studying at university centres outside of the place of residence, if we add the number of neighbouring counties to 8,000 students. Listed to a certain extent and necessarily due to diversification of study programmes at national level and of course there is no need for the development of all study programmes at each of the universities. However, I will repeat the fact that due to socio-economic conditions, there are a large number of citizens who today do not have access to higher education due to the inability to school in the environment outside of their residence. The University of the North has a significant number of candidates registered on enrolment deadlines every academic year than those available for regular and extraordinary students, and on some more attractive study programmes, the number is also much higher. This means that the University of the North must develop, that it must grow and must enable the establishment of an educated structure of our region. The aim is to further employ quality teaching staff with acquired scientific and professional competences of teachers and selected in scientific and scientific teaching professions. The university system has the task of identifying particularly capable personnel potentials, and of encouraging the development and application of relevant titles and skills for the welfare of the community in which they operate. There should be ways and promotion of progress and legal organisational implementation and evaluation measures based on skills and skills. It is important to point out that the University of the North has put it as a priority to foster and strengthen interest in natural, technical and biotechnical sciences. We find this extremely important, and this University of the North has room for advancement and development. Namely, in the research report of the Institute of Social Sciences Ivo Pilar The district center of Varazdin, the development perspective of higher education in the city of Varazdin, on the issue of citizens within which areas of activity, according to them, would be the most important opening of higher education and university studies, in Varazdin most often state the need to open studies in the area of natural and technical sciences 23 to 24%, followed by the area of biomedicine and healthcare with 18%, and the area of social sciences with 15%. The study programmes in the area of natural sciences do not exist in the town of Varazdin, from the field of biomedicine and health, there is only a sisterhood study, although almost half of the study programmes at the University of North in Varazdin are priorityd to the opening of study programmes right from the field of technical sciences. It is important that this university has recognized all these analyses and that it develops its programmes in this direction. What I also find important to point out, and that is crucial, is to strengthen the contribution of the University of the North region through support of industry, economy, and social and cultural life. In this sense, the University of the North has already started and already has much to do, it is the founder together with the town of Varazdin and the Faculty of Organization and Information Technology Park Varazdin. The Varazdin Technology Park is the largest technological park in the Republic of Croatia and in 2014 it was granted the means to produce project documentation of 15 million kuna for the production of new spaces and equipment of laboratories. The University will participate in the design of laboratories in the field of engineering, engineering and electrical engineering, and in accordance with its own development needs, and the needs of the region's economy as a whole, it is important to say that the University of North and the partner of the city of Varazdin in the city's European Capital of Culture bid in 2020 was signed last week. The university currently has just over 140 permanent employees. Of these, 115 staff in the follow-up and about 30 non-training staff and about 200 external associates. Currently, at all ages at the university, the north studies about 2700 students. The university also cares about the development of its own staff so that it can finance or co-finance doctoral studies for 30 of its assistants and teachers. These are numbers, but it's important to say that behind these numbers is a lot of work, a lot of effort and a lot of enthusiasm for all the employees at the university. And there is a great positive energy of all those who are allowed to study in Varazdin, as well as in Koprivnica. For students, for their parents but also for the future and development but also for the soul of these cities and the soul of the entire region, it means a lot and that is one of the additional reasons why we have to support it. The university was originally founded on the foundations of the High Electrical School in Varazdin, which began in 2001. In 2005, he grew into a university in Varazdin which has three professional studies, electrical engineering, manufacturing engineering and multimedia, design and application. In the next 2 to 3 years, the University of Varazdin begins to implement a study programme in the scientific field of biomedicine, health care, professional sisterhood study and has at that time more than 3000 students. By gaining founding rights over the University of Media in 2012 the towns of Varazdin and Koprivnica clearly show that they are interested in raising the level of education in the northern region of the Republic of Croatia. The University of Media begins working in the academic year 2012/2013. and the City Council of Founders makes a decision in March 2013 on the integration of the University of Varazdin and the Media University. On 19 February 2015, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports launched a public debate on the effects of the proposed law, which ended on 20 March, and we are extremely pleased that almost everyone, almost entirely, is 2 exceptions, I will not now name them, perhaps if there are any replicas, and then, apart from 2 others, everyone has supported the establishment of a university north, which means that the citizens and also the professional public have recognized all of this that we are talking about today. I have to, the esteemed counsel Shuker was saying something about, so I figured it out as a general policy of education policy in the Varazdin County when he mentioned a public private partnership, so I'd like to mention him, but maybe all together I wanted to remind myself of what a public private partnership had brought to the Varazdin County. The Varazdin County is the only county in all of Croatia that has fully decorated, renovated, built up all schools and all sports halls based on public private partnership because otherwise from the budget of cities, municipalities and states might have one to two and not all. The Varazdin County managed to provide one-way training for all primary and secondary school students based on projects by the then mayor of Cacic. The Varazdin County has begun co-financed the transport that we managed to impose on this government as well. And what are the results? So the results are that today the Varazdin County has centres of excellence, has a one-way course that has resulted in today's. So after 10 years with a break when we track what the effects of the public private partnership and all that is, and co-financing of student transport, which is what produced it. So 36% higher in high school, 36% higher in high school, and double in college. So if it's not a serious shift, then I'm based on exactly the kind of projects I don't know what it is. So this should be supported and I would recommend that other counties do more than the state has finally taken the obligation to co-finance the public private partnership with 55%. And of course the state needs to take over and of course the state needs to finance it. And a public private partnership also the University of the North. Because as we know, we are today the most financially centralized state, so with Greece the most centralised state in Europe where 90% of the income ends in the state register and only 10% in local self-government units. So only 10% for all other cities, counties, municipalities. Therefore, the state should also finance the University of the North and a public private partnership. Here are all the clubs and MPs I invite to support this legislative proposal and enable the establishment of the University of the North. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110900	Thank you, too. We have a replica. Honorable representative Igor Coleman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110901	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Martincevic, I agree mainly with the greatest work or almost everything you said in your debate, but the truth makes it clear that history has not begun with your release of your proposal in the process, this is a project that you have been working on, as you have later said in your speech since 2001, 2005 and in the mandate of Minister Jovanovic, has been organised intensively by meetings and arrangements and attempts to do so. Unfortunately, the deputy minister at the time was not particularly cooperative. In that sense, I must take the opportunity to thank and thank Deputy Andricevic for changing the ministry's relationship to this important university. But to get back to the beginning, so this is one project that has been working on for at least 15 years now almost and in this term, and before your law, the ones that you claim to have taken over the idea and accepted the idea have actually come out and led to this moment where we are today. After all, the university was founded as a university before your law. So although I agree with everything else you've said, or almost everything, but the truth of the matter should be pointed out that history has not begun with your bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110902	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110903	History certainly didn't start with my bill, but I'm glad my bill initiated what we're discussing today and that my bill of law led to tomorrow's vote and I believe we'll vote North University. You're absolutely right, since 2001, the history of the university has started and then later universities. I was personally present at all meetings with Minister Jovanovic, and I am very sorry that at one point the whole story stopped and that nothing was done for three years. People working at the university, students studying found themselves in a dangerous and serious situation to put their university and survival at risk. That's when I decided, after three years, that absolutely nothing happened that we had to start acting, that we had to do something, and then I went out with my bill. The government took more than six months to go out with its own, and I'm very sad that HNS didn't go out with his own.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110904	Thank you very much. Now the third draft law of the same content, the same proposal, is the proposal for a law establishing the University of the North, first reading, P.Z. No. 745, the proposer of the law is Sunnya Glavak. I call upon the motionary, the respected representative of the Sun's Head, to give an opening statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110905	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister. I see that we have been joined by teachers from the University of the North in Varazdin who I warmly welcome. My colleagues and colleagues. So we came after obviously a series of years and after many historical moments that were described in fact in my proposal for a law which is before you a whole new proposal that differs from what it proposed, at the beginning of what came to the Croatian Parliament of fellow Members Martincevic, then we waited for the Government's proposal. Apparently, the government was making a promise, but it took a little while, so here it comes today, too, on our benches. And so this is before you a comprehensive bill on the establishment of the University of the North, different from what we had the chance to hear. Since fellow Martincevic has also hit some historic moments, I will not burden you with it, you have suggestions ahead of you, but I will express my regret that there is no really our fellow MPs coming from III. election units or a little wider, which should advocate such or such a proposal of the law and give their opinion whether they support if they do or do not support and why not. The honor of exceptions, of course, I see a fellow here protesting, but of course that doesn't apply to those present in the hall. One of the differences that I propose in my proposal for a law that is justified and introduced in law is, given the facts presented in the historical review of the development of higher education in the northern parts of the Republic of Croatia, the conclusion is imposed, which is in my proposal that the centre or headquarters of the University of the North should be in Varazdin, to determine 4 future university centres in Čakovec, Koprivnica and Križevci. So that's the difference between, say, what we heard in the first two proposals. We have heard the same economic movements in which the economy of the northern part of the Republic of Croatia is taking place, so it includes three counties: Varazdinska, Međimurska and Koprivnica-križevka, which together form a space of 3738 km2 with slightly more than 405,000 inhabitants. Coliica Martinčević said well, unfortunately we are last at an average height, at a net average salary in the Republic of Croatia. It is important to highlight the relatively high value of exports that all three counties achieve and their positive external trade balances, which, according to the counties, are available at the time of the proposed law, Varazdinska with an amount of 1.3 billion kuna, Međimurje 700 million kuna and Koprivnica-križevka with an amount of 800 million kuna. So as you can see, all three counties among the first are at export level, but once again it says it doesn't somehow touch it or even in this assembly to our public. Unfortunately, we have the lowest salaries in the Republic of Croatia. What is more important to point out, that in my opinion the University of the North should naturally be in the function of hiring personnel who will leave it after schooling. Of course, as in other parts of Croatia, the desire to increase industrial growth is, however, also in our part of Croatia or in that part of Croatia, we can view it exclusively through increased employment. Thus, the reduction in the number of unemployed, provided that young educated people remain in Croatia, not leaving Croatia, professional and particularly highly educated personnel, who will respond to the demands of the economy in the northern part of the Republic of Croatia, which has not been the case so far because we had a low share of highly educated labour in the overall workforce and the lack of compliance of the education system and the need of industry. Higher education must be consistent with the development of technologies, faster and simpler transmission of information and the adoption of methods in processing, analysis, interpretation, visualisation and other effective actions in the process of creating a final product and its exit to the domestic and external market, and this industry in the northern Republic of Croatia. Finally, a marked and significant increase in investment in research work of scientists and higher education institutions that will be linked exclusively, I reiterated, with the demands of the economy, not the dying incentives by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which ultimately rarely lead to industrial growth because they were neither a hindrance to the demands of the economy but to the thinking of individuals or groups of individuals. Only trained work through vocational schools and highly educated institutions opened at the demands of the economy are a guarantee of increasing productivity, i.e. the increase in exports, which, of course, leads to an increase in GDP and ultimately industrial growth, as well as a significant increase in wages. Through a few words about existing study programmes, therefore organised through colleges, higher schools, higher schools have largely failed to respond, therefore to the needs of the northern Croatian economy. And we can conclude that at this point there is not enough of the highly organised personnel that are necessarily needed by the specific economy of northern Croatia. As study programmes for which there are no economic requirements have been opened, how curricula and programmes of professional and university, how curricula and programmes of professional and university pre-graduate and graduate studies need to be coordinated with existing economic branches in northern Croatia. At this point, given that the government's representative also spoke of the establishment since 2009 when Europe's press holding received a pass, I will not repeat myself. However, at the University of the North today, two studies are conducted at the graduate level – relations with the public and business economy with two focussed international trade and tourism. In cooperation with the University of Rijeka, a university postgraduate doctoral study – media and publishing is being conducted. The plan is to introduce new studies, and in the medium term and raise existing professional studies to the university level. The question that is raised in the context of this and what I said earlier, so the need for an economy operating in the northern part of Croatia is whether or not these personnel will really have a place to work. When we talk about the future of the University of the North, I think it should be developed as a comprehensive university with a wide range of research and study programmes in line with the economic opportunities and needs of society and economy in northern Croatia. The university must promote excellence in scientific and research, that is, artistic research and seek its place among the recognizable universities that cherish the principles of academic principles. The university must significantly increase its international visibility and attractiveness to new forms of research and study mobility, and to study programmes available to students from other countries. Efforts should be made to improve quality by international exchange of scientific staff and students. In selected areas of interest for the development of the University of Zagreb will be sought whenever expertise is needed abroad. This is just the part I put into the conclusion when we define the University of the North tomorrow. So I'm going to point out one more time. What you see in the articles of the bill, so the University will have 4 centres, headquarters in Varazdin, so Koprivnica, Čakovec and Križevci. What has been a struggle on the Committee where, of course, this proposal or my proposal has been rejected is a decision on the establishment of mentorship. Some believe it is unnecessary, but in such a concise law it should stand. I will only refer to the proposal for founding rights, i.e. the transfer of founding rights defined in Article 25. So within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the founding University of the North, the city of Varazdin and the town of Koprivnica will conclude with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports as the acquirer of the founding rights contract on the transfer of founding rights. The City of Varazdin and the town of Koprivnica will, within 45 days of the entry into force of this law, make all decisions, give consent or carry out any action prescribed by their founding acts necessary for the conclusion of a contract on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North as referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article, and submit an application to the court register of the Commercial Court in Varazdin. Decision on the establishment of mentorship shall continue on Article 25. This Regulation shall enter into The Senate of the University of Zagreb will decide within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law on the establishment of mentorship over the University of the North or a decision of another name to achieve the purpose and objective of paragraphs 2 to 6 of this Article. I'm not gonna read it all to you. Therefore, the decision referred to in the preceding paragraph of the University of Zagreb will exercise the rights and obligations of the North University body, and will give a closer description of the way in which decisions are implemented and implemented during the duration of the decision. My colleagues and colleagues, we believe that such a comprehensive law is a better solution than what the government has proposed and what it has proposed with great effort and colleague Martincevic. We believe that we should look at it in the long term, not in the short term, and this is why the proposal for a law on the establishment of the University of the North is drawn up, aware that, of course, the ruling majority will support its bill. But let me go back to what my colleague Shucker said. It is not only our intention to place something on the burden of the state but it is important to us that we have professional teachers, and that professional teaching staff or professors, professional staff educate staff who will find employment in the labour market that is needed in that part of Croatia. Thank you very much. I hope so, our club will support my proposal, and we'll see how the other colleagues decide. Thank you very much and teachers who will likely have observations on both the second and the third proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110906	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110907	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, the replica is because you've considered, of course, the absence of colleagues from the 3rd constituency, they're on boards and they definitely supported the establishment of the university, the government's proposal, partly on committees, and they're preparing the committees in part. And I'd like to refer to your detail that you need to think long-term. Look, Madam MPs, look at the arguments and figures, 2002. Founded at the University of Zadar, 2003. Dubrovnik, 2001 University, or Engineering School in Varazdin, is becoming Veleučište in Varazdin in 2002. And then in the long run, you've obviously been thinking in the HDZ for eight years, there's no movement. I'm really surprised, I'm surprised the courage to talk like that. And I support your attitude on the teachers you've welcomed upstairs, they're great teachers. And you said we had great teachers. Why didn't you let them build a university in the last eight years? Well, that's actually amazing! Here I come from the 6th Election Unit, I'm a university professor in the City of Zagreb, so I'm not from the 3rd constituency you call, your colleagues and colleagues sat in the previous Parliament, for 8 years you've been thinking long-term and now you're politicizing. Please don't politicize on children, don't politicize on teachers, don't politicize on topics you simply don't have a right to. Of course, sometimes you have the right as an opposition, you have the right to speak as a parliamentary representative, but don't listen here for the sake of teachers who listen to you upstairs because I'm a teacher and I'm simply an inappropriate, inappropriate, inappropriate commentary and I'm really surprised by your rhetoric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110908	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110909	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, if we're not lying to each other, no committee is currently working, it's 6:00 p.m. and 20 minutes. Therefore, please do not be false. In the long term you may be in the Croatian Assembly in the short term... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110910	Please, please, it seems to be a preferential vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110911	You may be in the Croatian Parliament in the short term, you are very rarely in session, so this is a little unknown to you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110912	Here you go, pal. We've calmed down the replicator. Everything's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110913	Mr. Doctor, I see you've moved to law school, obviously you're not doing very well. But there's no reason for you to tell me what would be good for me coming from that constituency. Let me have absolutely no reason. Well, I guess I know what people are saying and what people are looking for. We may disagree from decimal to decimal, but that's not your problem, that's my problem. And I know what these people were looking for or through their intermediaries, so don't give us any proof of what you'd like to see happening in Međimurje, Varazdin, Koprivnica. Therefore, if we do not agree, or if the teachers disagree with my proposal, we have at least tried to make some kind of legal proposal. I'm sorry, you're in the fourth year of office and you have absolutely no right to give us a hand. You could've done your best. So get out of law enforcement and don't get involved where you don't know people or opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110914	Every MP has the same right to get involved in all parts of Croatia and all jobs in Croatia and all citizens to represent in Croatia, there you are wrong colleagues. This has no imperative mandate, nor represents any place or any group, but all of Croatia's citizens in the general interest of Croatia, not today, but also Croatia's future. Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Vesna Railway, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110915	Well, here's my esteemed colleague, part of the discussion, who took away our parliamentary representative, but I wanted to look back at the call-out why isn't there? Well, there's no president of yours who's from your constituency, so I think it would be a good idea if he were here to give you support for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110916	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110917	Thank you very much. I thought you'd look back on what I suggested because it's actually in the interest, but I can see that we can do anything, so I'll look into it. So I'm just going to use my replica and tell you for God's sake, three million kunas have spent ministries on their own promotion in the first three months of this year. And we don't have for hungry children, we don't need them in the Republic of Croatia. That's all I can tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110918	It's getting more and more interesting that we're closer to the night. Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports, opinions? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the club of Independent Leftists, the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110919	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. We are discussing today three laws that are fundamentally different, but I will base these three laws on some of the moves that have been taken over the past few years and that have brought us before the final act. I am aware, and I went to see it in person and I visited the premises of the University of the North, the former University of Varazdin, and people made huge efforts and big money to make it a representative space, not only representative but functional with great specialized classrooms, with beautiful equipment and all that expensive. All this stands and does all this, in my opinion, and for almost 40 years I have been in higher education in Croatia, an excellent Technical University in Varazdin. Where did this idea and fact of today's finished fact of the University of the North come from? She left the south, from Split. On the last day of her term of office when she was already a technical government, Minister Primorac had to do with the EPH company and the owner of Pavić signed a pass for something they called the Media University which may have had something to do with the media but with the university nothing, nothing, nothing, on any living criterion in the world could have been a university. But he signed it on his friend's last day of office, so he did a favor for a friend. And it didn't surprise me by the Minister of the Primorac, it didn't surprise me, and other things he did that weren't exactly too much. I was surprised to learn that this license was sold to the City of Koprivnica through that company, the company was sold for 3 million and 900 thousand kuna. I didn't know they were buying and selling, I didn't know it was a commodity, I guess it came from something else from proving excellence, from proving the amount of teachers, programs, space, equipment, and what I know about what. The town of Koprivnica bought, got a firm, Media University. Varazdin had developed the Media University years before, Varazdin had developed a university with a mass of programs, good professional programs, had a lot of employees, they had this space, the city had arranged barracks and it worked together, and now there was a firm and a license from the Media University that was nothing but this company at that time. On the other hand, there were people, teachers who worked for years, good work, professional studies, etc. And now it's joined into one, these have got a new title that's worth something, and these others have got legitimacy through the number of people, through the number of programs. What surprised me, I was not surprised that Minister Primorac had made it, but I was surprised that Minister Jovanovic had signed that temporary pass and I was once more surprised that the new minister of this government had done the same. It started with buying on the one hand, it started out as a good university on the other. Rezon that people, that the educational structure in the region should be improved, of course they stand for God's sake, but it has also improved through such a university and through some university studies that exist in Varazdin, four of them exist in Varazdin. Now why is there something that has nine professional, pardoning university pre-graduate studies, those three-year studies, of which 2 of them have a follow-up on the graduate part, so they have those next 2 years, 3+2, no doctoral studies, why does it have to become a university when these vocational studies are good and improve the education structure and work for the economy of that part of the country? Why this had to happen today is not clear to me, but it happened and it happens. No one working in higher education should be explained that such an institution structure is not a university. That's what people who work in higher education, there's a couple here, they know that perfectly well. And prove otherwise, I hope he doesn't because it's unproven. So in 97 years when we started these professional studies in Croatia, we said that these studies would serve this rise in the educational level of the population in Croatia and should be focused on local economy etc. And it was done with the university, though some of them went to the crime scene, but my God, they've gone to colleges, so they went to crime, not a guarantee called the university is not a guarantee that there will be only honesty in there. The only graduate studies that exist at North University are economic types and media types. I don't know exactly what they're called in here, but they're the only graduate studies, so those that lead to further education, to the next degree of education, so to the master's degree. That more than that won't happen guarantee, if it's not a lie, this part of the bill that says how much the whole thing is going to cost. It'll cost 10 million kuna a year. That's not possible. I ran a university in Zagreb for 20 years, mediocre college, mediocre needs, mediocre size it costs just over 28 million kuna a year, one college. It's impossible for the university to cost 10, and if it's still developing new programs, it's completely impossible, it's not true, I say responsibly. The list of teachers is impressive and I've met some teachers, these are great people who work with a lot of enthusiasm and do good things, professional good things do I don't think we should prove it specifically. What is not possible anywhere on any page is something called lecture order at the university, which is the program that will be done this year and in that program every college writes who does it, and I haven't seen it. The radio would see it, I think it would be necessary to see it because it's not enough to have 100 or 120, 150 people with a choice on how many 9+2, 11 programs there are so to say that teaching is professionally represented. Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. The documents that are visible can't be estimated. The documents of the bill talk a lot about education and talk about education, about scientific research do not say anything or anything, if mentioned in the sentence, two. One of the features or one of the activities most important in fact that distinguishes the university from the school is just scientific research, university and university. I would also like to see it, which is now in progress, which is planned, in which projects people participate, how much it contributes to affirmation and universities and regions and cities and cities and Croatia, how much of it is not talked about in international projects and the like. Maybe those are plans for a bright future? And maybe then this whole thing was reorientated from the university to the university was supposed to be left for that bright future. Rezoni, let's go help our poor kids in the region to make high education accessible to them would be fair if there were no figures. So look at these figures that are the ratio of regular students, so those who study at the expense of the state and the extraordinary ones who pay. The extraordinary has three, four times as many. I agree, it's only so possible that an institution with 10 million kunas works, that's the only way it's possible. Do I know a university that works well... in principle well, but let's not sell this demagogue then. We're gonna help our poor girl with that poor girl's gonna pay her tuition. Wait, there's something wrong with that logic. The university has been talking all the time about how the region should be helped, which is of course true, the region should be helped, but I am convinced that in a country like the Croatian universities should not be regional. The university should be all Croatian, all as many as there are. And if they are not, if they are not primarily open for all of Croatia, then they don't need any, none that isn't so open. In the end, there's money. In the bill of law, what the ministry delivered, it is said to be 5 million this year, next year 10.5 million and then 10 million 200. These figures can only talk about part of the cold drive, so part of the teacher's salary, not everyone. If all these people on the list are employed, it's not enough for their pay, nothing else. Either the intention is to bring things under the state cap and leave them as they are, so don't develop new ones because there's no money for it, or it's intended to come with a budget rebalance or with a new budget for 2016 and with a number of North University between my modest estimate of 50 and 70 million. That's the truth. The election is quick, the election needs to be won in the north, and I think that's one of the main reasons why it's going now and why everyone's going. I need to take care of the voters, and I'm gonna pay for someone else. Less and less laws in this House that someone's asking about, anyone, who's gonna pay for it. It's clear here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110920	Thank you very much. Now we'll hear a few replicas. Honorable representative Natalija Martincevic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110921	Here's to me, it would take a 20-minute replica, but I only have two minutes, so I'll look back on what's most important. From your presentation, in fact, the whole I can't be taken away from the impression that the essence of your exposure is underestimation of the city of Varazdin, underestimating the region and underestimating the University of the North. They're harder on you, so what's the university doing now, so good for them and the university, so they've got programs at the university, that's enough. Why is the university special, so it has a Zagreb university, so here's the FOI. Next, how much is it going to cost? So why don't you wonder how much Zagreb University costs? How much does the state budget cost Zagreb University? A billion kunas. How much does the University of Zadar cost? 40 million kuna. University of Pula 35 million kuna, University of Dubrovnik 52 million kuna. That's what nobody asks, now they're asking about Varazdin and our year 5 and the next year 10 million kunas. We can't treat the north that way. We're the only region that doesn't have its own state-funded university, and now we've come to terms with all the arguments we've made. Well, of course we need a university, it's not enough FOI, it's not enough Zagreb University and it's not enough university. That's why we have 10.5% higher and higher educated, compared to Zagreb, which has 30%. When you have such an educational structure, then you have such industries, then you have such wages, so these are related processes. This is an important opportunity and an important chance to do something. And I see that other things are very surprising to you, to your pass, to your sales, to your purchases, and so on. Don't be surprised if you have anything to say where the place is, let everything be investigated and examined and don't... Insinuations without evidence and insulting all these hardworking and hardworking people who led this university to a stage so that it could become public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110922	Replication response, I expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110923	Here's no hard feelings. It seems to me that the replica was actually caused by what I last mentioned. elections. Let's show ourselves how loyal we are to our region. I don't mind the Varazdin region, God forbid. When the first high school in Varazdin started, I wrote a program for her. A textile study in Varazdin long ago was to be shut down, I personally was the one who did not allow it to be shut down and maintained until today. But these blades are just cuts to give to us. It was done for the same political reasons and in some other places, so let's go to our place. I can't accept it, so who loves it, who doesn't like it. My resonation I was talking about is quality. Quality and organization and the whole process from the very beginning and what exists today. If that initiative had started with a FOI that didn't get into situations like this, not that it was coming from there, and it was done in the right way, and that the university doesn't have 9 undergraduate and 2 undergraduate studies, but 9 undergraduate and 9 doctoral and 2 doctoral studies, then I'd probably discuss it differently, today I'm discussing it like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110924	Thank you very much. It was the response of the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. And now the new replica of the respected representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110925	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Vuljanic's a few things. I agree, 20 minutes of what Mrs. Martincevic said is a short time, so just a few things. You said it was an excellent technical university, the University of the North has long gone beyond the level of technical university, even excellent. There are 11 study programmes in 4 scientific areas. Let's not go any further on the data you've heard, so it's long since the status you've given him has grown. As far as the EPH is concerned, the first EPH has absolutely nothing to do with the whole story, and what was bought long ago was not acquittals but were the founding rights of the university, so you are not telling the truth on the one hand and on the other hand it is a completely different thing. The third thing you're asking is why would they even start a university, why are universities being founded? Why did we start Zagreb University? I mean, why do we even have universities after all? And the only thing that can decide at the end of the day what is worth being a university and what is not worth is international accreditation and in the process of recrediting the University of the North, experts from Cambridge and other renowned universities participated, and they were, I have no other word, they were impressed with what was achieved there. And the last thing I'm going to comment on about the 10 million kuna budget, the university budget is not going to be 10, but 17 million kuna for 2015, '16. And together with your own resources, that'll be enough to develop. And it may be enough for them to develop a colleague, Vuljanic, because they do not treat resources and money as other universities, so perhaps the university you have been leading, who has been living for a very long and long time in one of the oscillating ways of making taxpayers' money available. Maybe that's why it'll cost less and have a better chance of developing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110926	Thank you very much. Re-replying to the replica of the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110927	Briefly, the question of why it's not a real question, why start a university. Well, because you should, because you should. I guess no one in their right mind can say no. It's a question of when. The question is whether to start when you don't have conditions or have a perspective on money up to those terms, you work... Or when you have it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're talking about acting in scientific areas. In scientific fields there are scientific doctoral studies, there are graduate studies and these are professional areas. And there's a scientific field of engineering, there's a professional field of engineering. And I'm convinced that this is a great professional job but not yet scientific. Maybe in a few years, but not today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110928	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110929	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Vuljanić, that I have also applied to the replica of your question that you already knew the answer, why there is a university. Why start a university, now I see you're retarded, now you're for the university, and you're retarded at the end of your class, it's just a question of when. That looks like a fellow Glavak who also thought long-term, so for eight years they thought about going to the university in the north and it was eight years ago. Well, look, I'm your doctor, your gastroenterologist, so for example, a gall bladder. You know who did the first gallbladder surgery in the former state? Varazdin hospital. Before the rib, before my hospital. My colleagues did a laparoscopic surgery before my team because science, skills, is not dependent and shares not on small and large but on quality and health, as you mentioned the crime I heard about was some kind of crime. But crime fellow Vuljanic is a character trait, he is not a property of the university, it is not a property of the university, it is not a feature of teachers, doctors, parliamentary representatives, parliamentary representatives from the south of Croatia or the north of Croatia. It is a characteristic feature, such as the adoption of knowledge a characteristic trait, and that is why colleagues from Varazdin did it first. I take off their hat, I've learned a lot from them. So here, let's give people a chance, Croatia is unfortunately such a beautiful country, a great landscape, a thousand and how many islands, but the shape it is. That's why we have five universities all over the Adriatic, and we're not in the north. I therefore appeal, let us accept the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We've been thinking in the middle of the day, and we've made decisions, and this is an optimal chance of giving these teachers up some kind of satisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110930	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanic is waiting to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110931	People really need a chance, that's not at all, especially if they do. I don't think this is a favor to anyone, so I may have picked up this hard. Certain burdens will now come to that institution that will stop them in a lot of things and will hardly meet that. I think in a few years, it's going to be wrong for everyone who advocates such speed steps that they weren't a little slower and a little more moderate and that they gave in to something that started out in a wrong way that wasn't legal, let's not say a harsh word, in a way that wasn't legal by buying a permit. That shouldn't have happened, and I'll never agree to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110932	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Valter Boluncic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110933	Thank you. So I don't know if we're talking about the same law, so the University of the North exists, that's not where we're talking about what's new. It exists and acts as such, but the fact that it would be unfair for one part of the country to pay for everything itself, while in other parts of the country, the state still co-finances a higher education which has been declared a common good that must be available to all. So you can't discuss now whether they exist as a university, there are laws on what quality it must be and that's not just about them, that applies to all of us. Certainly the university that exists goes through accreditation, and if it's fulfilled, it will be, if it doesn't, it will get a restraining order to enroll. Therefore, this is not a law on whether they are a university, so they will become a part of it. that founding rights, in other words, help the state to make further progress. The university and the university are still a very important difference. The university is primarily an independent person, there is no administrative council that determines the state but manages it on its own, it can get much more involved in international projects, it can develop doctoral studies and a whole series of other things that the higher schools could not before. But it's one of the facts that already exist, and I think it's okay for the state to come into contact, to give them an incentive to develop, and of these 2700-2800 students, 2000 is in the apartment area as we had the chance to hear today, and the ratio of regular and extraordinary students is most viewed by nurses, which is quite natural because most of them work as long as they go to the peer study, and that's actually if we want to say probably in Europe today's most wanted profession, probably more than computer science. And let us not forget that in the Law on Science and Higher Education and in the proposal of the National Council as one of the basic and first points, politic development was put in place. So if we're going to watch it, we can go back to doorknob 22 if we wait for someone to advance to be top-notch, so you're just going to start it, which is almost impossible, or it's going to go the other way. Besides, who's gonna pay for it? We get 35 million in Pula, and a billion kuna a year goes from Istria out. So we can ask ourselves who we pay for everything, and we don't have the money for one professor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110934	Thank you very much. Reply Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110935	The fact is that the University of the North exists, has a temporary pass, has all the organs, rectors, proprietors,..., that's all you need to have. By whose will? There are two cities at will, and it's the responsibility of two cities. As of tomorrow... As of tomorrow, that responsibility will be on all of us. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's the right time to take that responsibility, but most obviously think differently. I'm sorry if it all feels like an attack on anyone, I have no interest at all in any aspect, I just don't want to do something today that the state, and we wanted it or not the government and the opposition, the state today does something that it's going to say, but it wasn't the right time, we could have done it smarter. Here's what I'm saying today. We could do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110936	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110937	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, part of my replica actually took from my colleague Walter. So, fellow Vuljanić, you know our Constitution very well, at least I hope, and then in the context of what you've been saying, and since you've been talking for almost 20 minutes and at the same time about all three proposals, it's pretty hard to figure out which ways and ways and at which point you're giving criticism, because in certain parts of your presentation, you've kind of denied yourself. Thus, constitutional principles speak primarily of equality, and all must have equal education available. However, what I am holding, and in part, colleague Martincevic said, I would not like to use a difficult term. However, do not belittle the north of Croatia in any way. That's how it was from your exposure. I think that's very incorrect. I also believe that you have completely misunderstood if we are talking about my bill when we talk about the availability of study, so no one is being defended, and moreover in my proposal, it is not that everyone can study at the University of the North but that the quality of international exchange of scientific staff and students can be improved. So that's exactly what's in my bill and I believe you're wrong if in that sense you referred the criticism to my bill. And one more thing that you've been dealing with as it's going to be a regional university. No, it will be a Croatian university, so we are in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110938	All I'd ask is that you don't take the debate personally. This is a debate for the Croatian public, for general things, so reviews of what kind of debate is don't. It's not. I didn't do you. I don't know where you came from. ... Please don't! [[You can't hear it.]] Replica response, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110939	As far as I'm concerned, the HDZ proposal is the most reasonable. If another regional university is already being done, it should be deviated from the already established universities of another university. And that makes sense to me, that kind of thing should look like it. Because she looked like that and this whole discussion would go completely different. Of course, it doesn't come to my senses to demean the region or Varazdin or what I know about who. So if someone works in this country like that, it's a god-in-command, then it's up north in Varazdin and Međimur County. ... This isn't off the record, this is on the record. [[You can't hear it.]] Equality in education and access to education is not reflected in whether you have a university within 500 metres of your home. It has nothing to do with equality. Equality is reflected in the criteria that you can go to that university whenever you want and when you meet those conditions as well as those whose house is next to the university. Therefore, this reasoning that children today are unequal in Varazdin, since they do not have a university there definitely does not stand especially if they come to an extraordinary study and pay for that tuition. Then Zagreb could have paid for it if it was already a criterion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110940	After this answer, I often want to be in the minority. And now the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Vesna Željnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110941	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, professors from the University of the North. So let me look at a few significant data and a few significant facts. But a lot has already been mentioned in previous discussions, but it is obvious that there is something to be repeated in order for some MPs to understand what is going on at the University of the North. So the beginnings of the development of a project to build a university in northwestern Croatia date back to 2001 with the establishment of a High Electrical School with the right of the public. Over the past 14 years, the facility has developed and grown, and it has experienced several reconstructions. Under today’s name, the University of the North has been active since 22 January 2014 when the integration of two institutions has been carried out by joining the Veleučište in Varazdin Press University in Koprivnica and since then is no longer public, although it is still funded by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. The establishment today meets all the required quality standards in science and higher education, and they are in line with national and European standards and quality assurance guidelines. Today, 86% of students are enrolled in the rock area. The reasons and goals of establishing the University of North are as follows. First of all, it is an improvement in the unfavourable, educational structure of the northern region of the Republic of Croatia. All relevant data clearly show that this part of Croatia is significantly lagging behind the national average. A little more than 10% of highly educated residents at an average rate of 18% in the Republic of Croatia, while more than 27% of higher education centres are lagging behind the largest Croatian university centres, and will need to take exceptional measures in the coming years to repair this unfavourable structure and image of the public University of the North is only one but a major, significant step in the right direction. Equal development of all regions in the Republic of Croatia, we have heard that a while ago. As is known in the coastal Croatia, 5 public universities in Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Split and Dubrovnik operate while only 2 Zagreb and Osijek are located on the continent. Strengthening economic potential and even development of northern counties, the rights of young north to access to higher education in northern Croatia, then creating the basis for the launch of new study programmes in line with regional and local economic needs. In addition to this long-term advantages of the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia should be demonstrated through the opening of new jobs as a result of university promotion of creativity and innovation and the launch of new types of entrepreneurship. Now 50 experts from the University of the North in cooperation with the local community are working to launch a series of new study programmes for the needs of local and general economy. Due to the significant investment of the local self-government unit, the towns of Varazdin and Koprivnica at the start of the University of the North here should not forget the so far already invested many funds of founders who have been invested to create quality conditions for performing a regular course of scientific, artistic and professional activities of the University of the North. By transferring founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia, all these investments would receive a logical and state certificate. It's already mentioned what are the study programs, so we have 11 study programs at 11 departments of the University of the North. Quality evaluation and higher education procedures have also been carried out. What is important to note is that so far the University of the North has attended 3,000 students from all over Croatia and beyond, and 152 teachers and extracurricular staff have been employed and more than 200 external co-workers in teaching scientific and artistic and teaching titles. The university has a total area of about 9000 square meters. A total of 1620 students, 1223 engineers and engineers in the field of technical science and 397 first-graders and first-graders from biomedical sciences, have graduated from the University of North, i.e. the University of Varazdin. The University has one of the highest quality registration policies and has continued to work on developing and strengthening interest in the STEM area. Already, I repeat, there are 86% of the total number of students belonging to the STEM area at the university. With regard to quality evaluation procedures on higher education, reaccreditation is performed each year. Thus, this year the process of recrediting the University of the North was carried out at the end of April 2015. In a self-analysis of the institution, numerical indicators have been presented to satisfy all the requirements contained in the Admission Content Regulation and the conditions for issuing a certificate for the performance of higher education activities, the implementation of the study programme and the re-accreditation of higher schools. The most important established quality indicators are the following: teaching coverage to constantly employed teachers by study programmes in appropriate titles on average 60 to 95%. The required criterion is 33% in professional studies, or 50% in university study programmes. Secondly, the ratio of permanent teachers and students is 1 to 19. The required criterion is less than 1 to the 30th. Third, available space per student about 3 meters square. The required criterion is 1.25 square meters. Fourthly, the number of scientific papers since the last evaluation process is currently more than 1260 of which is more than 25% of these A1 categories, with 131 works in the highest category. Recredits and previous years have still been made regarding everything that was needed to be done and 6 of the 7 chapters of the standard were mostly implemented, and the assessment was very good. It has already been mentioned a lot, so I will not repeat myself, but it is important to say that 2014 and 2015 academic year in the interest of enrolment on some of the North University study programmes took 18th place from a total of 122 higher education institutions in Croatia that perform more than 770 different study programmes, and according to the official ranking of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. On average, for one spot at each of the North University studies, about 10 candidates compete every year, and in some studies the interest is also much higher. The University of the North also has 5 approved lifelong learning programmes, and in cooperation with economic operators in the region, the launch of new programmes is also in line with the need for the labour market, above all for deficiting interests. For this purpose, the university carries out continuous monitoring and surveying of labour market needs. Co-operation with the economy and local community of the University of the North achieves both the establishment and co-ownership with 3 centres. In addition to the Varazdin Technology Park, there is also cooperation with Centro for the development of technology and knowledge transfer at the University of North and the Innotech Center of competence Koprivnica whose partners are with the founder of the town of Koprivnica University of North and Podravka. The aim of the mentioned centres is to better connect science and economy and successfully transfer knowledge and technology to create new jobs. Through Erasmus programmes and bilateral cooperation contracts, the University of North co-operates with more than 20 different higher education institutions from Europe and the world, and in line with the development strategy, this figure will increase as early as this year. In the past year, a number of foreign lecturers were hosted and real incoming mobility was achieved through the Erasmus programme in which the semester at the university spent several students from Slovenia at the University of the North. We expect that figure to increase in this year. The university currently publishes several scientific journals and participates in the organisation of several domestic international scientific conferences. For students and employees of the university there are 32 top equipment laboratories mainly from the technical and biomedical fields of science and a number of production studies and art cabinets for the social and artistic fields. In addition, the university has a library with tens of thousands of printed, or electronic books and magazines, as well as access to the world’s most important scientific bases. And the North University alumni except in Croatia are successful and work across Europe, North America and Asia and recently the first former university student has been employed in New Zealand. More than 90% of the North University alumni remains living and working in Croatia. The cooperation of universities with foreign universities and scientific institutions as an essential element of the development of scientific research potentials of the university is of great importance for achieving the fundamental objectives of university development. The University is based on the transferred rights of integrated institutions holding the Erasmus Charter for the period 2014 and 2020 and this Charter for the Institute of Media University and the University of Varazdin. After integration, the EU Mobility and Programmes Agency issued an integrated Transitional Charter for the University on the basis of the legal traceability of the new institution. In the end, it will encourage education for natural, technical and biotechnical scientific areas, and in accordance with the programmes signed between the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and High Schools, based on the rulings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since the year 2012. From the University of the North, three new directions are announced, a study of food technology, a study of packaging, a study of sustainable urban mobility. It works intensively to open graduate studies for all three directions in Koprivnica. The adoption of the law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia is the only rational and realistic solution which will begin to achieve the same rights and gain the same development opportunities as other regions in the Republic of Croatia that already have public universities. The residents of the northwestern region of the Republic of Croatia deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110942	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110943	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs could almost welcome you by name. Dear Deputy Minister, welcome, dear guests. I'm actually very glad to say, I don't remember the situation, my though parliamentary mandate isn't exactly that long, or the internship, but I don't remember the situation that we had three bill proposals that were a fact is different in many or at least one part but all three have the same fundamental goal and that is the establishment, that is, further development and transformation of the University of the North into a public university. I would like to start by saying that the HNS will support these three laws, support the government's proposal, we will support our proposal by colleague Martincevic. HNS is, as you well know, a party that is an intensive supporter of its roots for the development of education as one of the foundations of development and society and state, and in this case we have had an intense and constructive role and therefore we consider this proposal to be our proposal, but when I say our proposal then I want to say something more about it, I am from the first electoral unit, I hope that it does not take away my right to speak about the University of the North, because indeed the University of the North, although I agree in the space of the third constituency if we define the space of the Republic and one piece of the other, but it is certainly a benefit for the whole of the Republic, for all of us. And the development of a network of higher education, and the development of educational institutions, and ultimately the possibility that our children, my daughter, are going to college for 13 years if she decides to go to college why not study at the University of the North? Today, the offer of the University of the North seems to me to be better and better than many so-called "North". Reputed and established universities and universities. And quote colleague Vuljanić "We need him because we need him". And in fact, there's some way we can put an end to this debate. We need the University of the North because we need it all not only of Varazdinska, Međimurska, Koprivnica-križevska, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, Virovitičko-podravska, in part those 600 thousand people who in some way directly gravitate the university, we all need it, we need it as a Republic of Croatia, we need the development of science, we need education, we need universities, and so we need the University of the North as a public university, which is what we are proposing today. Some of the data we've heard, but I don't think it's too bad to repeat it, repeating is the mother of knowledge. So at the university currently studies about 3,000 students in 11 study groups, more than 350 employees and external associates. And what I want to highlight as one of the arguments for what we are proposing today is to provide assumptions for a balanced development of higher education networks in the Republic of Croatia, so Croatia as a whole and in this case of course and in particular the North-West regions in both economic and social and cultural terms and in all other terms. The reference is to 86% of students studying in science and technology, engineering and mathematics, biomedical and information-communication areas. All of these areas are those that are today disabled in Croatia on the one hand, and on the other hand in all of our documents and industrial strategy and all of our analyses are shown to be key and key areas for the development of the Republic of Croatia and our economy. It is mentioned that I will repeat the intentional region in which the university is located is thick below the higher education average of the Republic of Croatia, significantly lower than the national average and in that reference group of 30 to 34 years, which is mentioned in EU plans and in our documents is also important to the fact that this region has not so far had a university, the same as probably lower wages related to the fact that there are too few highly educated people, the same as the investment problem is linked to this because you cannot expect investments in addition to surplus, quality, modern, sophisticated jobs if you have too little share of highly educated people who can work in these jobs and in those companies that are opening up through these investments. And that also shows that we need the university, that we need the public University of the North. We need the public University of the North as an independent university, not as dislocated parts of some other universities that are elsewhere whose nuts are elsewhere, further or closer, whose development plans are far from the region where the university is located, we need an independent University of the North. Not branches of Zagreb or any other university. And I disagree that the possibility of studying and accessing the university is not an important option for material access to study is not an important argument. It's a very important argument. In the Republic of Croatia very many children did not go to high school or didn’t go to high school because they couldn’t get to school. And also a lot of young people don't study because study is expensive sport, we all know it. Even if we don't pay for a scholarship study is a expensive sport if you are in another city, if you have to pay for accommodation, food costs, travel and everything students pay for. The University of the North allows residents of northwestern Croatia to study either in the very place where they live or nearer to the place where they live than it was in the case, and it will open up opportunities for many young people and not only young people, but primarily for young people that have so far been unattainable and unimaginable. The interest is already huge. My colleague, Željnik, spoke 18th of the University of 122th of interest. I said that not only will young people profit, but not just young people, because the university also has these five lifelong learning programs. We're here to have a kuna for every time in this assembly mentioned how important lifelong learning is I would be a millionaire. This university has five approved lifelong learning programs and are planning a new course. And it's also one of the things that matters and why we need that university as a public university. The next goal is to connect science and economy with the transfer of knowledge and technology, all of this together because of better and new ones, but I stress better jobs. What do I mean when I say better jobs? Few statistics, in the Republic of Croatia, graduates have an average of 52% higher salary than those with secondary education and about 20% higher than average. These are data that also contribute to the need for a university in the northwestern region and need more highly educated fellow citizens and fellow citizens. It is also not necessary to ignore the fact that only a university as an institution before all these benefits from the transfer of technology, knowledge, higher education, investment that can then go to better jobs, the very fact that the university exists contributes to the community in which this university is located. And not only materially and financially, but also culturally and socially. The student population is the most progressive, most lively, student cities are always the most alive, the most modern in them is life in the best possible way and that is why we need a university in a region that has no university. The entire continental Croatia has only Zagreb and Osijek, so there is absolutely a justification that the University of the North is founded or transformed into a public university. It's cost-related, let's talk about costs. With this budget proposed by the bill and when you take the number of students per student, the University of the North would cost, but it cost under great quotes because I don't think education is a cost in that sense and education costs in the sense in which it is classically meant, it would cost 5,770 kuna per student. The comparisons for Zagreb University cost 16.594 kuna per student, Osijek 13.056 kuna, Zadar 18.304 kuna, and the Catholic University which is also funded from the budget cost no less than 27.382 kuna per student. But if we are talking about costs, we should also point out that cities and Varazdin and Koprivnica have already invested considerable funds in this university and that this change of status gives it a new strength and a new meaning. So the University of the North is a modern, flexible university, adapted to the time in which we live, ready for growth and development and meets absolutely all the required standards of quality in science and higher education. In fact, the conditions are in many ways and in most things well above the Croatian average. The ratio of students and teachers, the ratio of space and students, dozens of laboratories modernly equipped, art cabinets, production units, other work spaces but not only the issue of infrastructure and buildings and cabinets and the number of works and scientific quality is at this point greater than many of the older or little older universities in the Republic of Croatia. I still don't mean to say anything bad about others, it just speaks well of the University of the North. It therefore enables people to be educated, to develop knowledge and technology, to connect the economy and to incubate new ideas and new projects. Lifelong education is also an important part of the North University programme. And all of that, of course, and it's not weird at all, having strong public support. The City Council of Varazdin and Koprivnica, of course, provided support. But also in a public debate in two circles that held 680 signs came, of which my data said 6 was against, but it doesn't matter, I hope you're right that 3 was against, but in any case it's a negligible percentage, it's a level of statistical error. And what I want to stress at the end of my presentation is that the best quality, fastest, most efficient and rational solution is what the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes, therefore, to transfer management rights to the Republic of Croatia. And I'm going to end up with an interesting historical data, and I think my colleague Skurić is going to say the same thing about it, so in 1687, the decree of Emperor Leopold in Lepopold was founded the Royal Academy with the right to grant a doctorate, so let's put it that way. Unfortunately, in the meantime, it was turned into a prison. Let's not all make that mistake together this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110944	The embryo lasts long. Dear Representative Dubravko Bilic has a replica of your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110945	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's colleague Coleman, in fact, you've been very summed up but fully and thoroughly working on this interesting topic not only as a regional topic for the establishment of the university but as an educational, scientific topic that interests the whole of Croatia. In particular, to put it that way, she referred it to yours, to a replica of the fact that at first you said that there were indeed three legislative proposals. And they actually show that they're three initiatives for the same thing. And I would agree with you that this government proposal is actually the most complete because it primarily respects the fact that the University of the North exists only to be given here by public authority. And that's something that needs to be recognized anyway. But of course these other two initiatives are almost on the same track because they point to the importance of education, i.e. higher education in northern Croatia. You've also mentioned one interesting thing that's specific to this University of the North and that's lifelong learning. Lifelong learning is through these 5 programmes, there will be more, lifelong learning will actually enable our University of the North to participate more actively in European projects to invest in the development and infrastructure of universities but also in the development of the programme because lifelong learning is also recognised in Europe in this period 14-20 as one of the priorities of flexibility and universities themselves, universities of the labour market. And finally here to say that this is no political decision in northern Croatia because... They're winning the election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110946	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110947	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. My esteemed colleague and I agree that there are three laws. The same government proposal seems to me to me, and we at the HNS club find the government's proposal most rational and efficient. But the fact is that we have three bill proposals that still go towards the same goal. If anything else on the one hand makes it easier for all of us to defend and represent the University of the North and, on the other hand, it certainly shows that we are right and that the University of the North deserves to be a university. As far as lifelong learning is concerned, the easiest thing to do is to defend those who do something that always stands out as a priority. We talk about lifelong learning in the Parliament every little bit and then comes the university that's already doing it. That's the easiest way to represent and defend. And the third thing, since I still consider myself a politician, I'm not afraid of political decisions. The characteristics of politicians and governments taking responsibility are to make political decisions. This is a political decision and it should be a political decision, we're politicians, the government is a political body, this is a political decision anyway, but what's more important is that this is a good political decision and that's the point of this story with the North University Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110948	Dear Representative Petar Baranovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110949	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Coleman, in your presentation, you mentioned that education is an expensive sport. Education is not an expensive sport, education is expensive today and many inaccessible needs. The basic condition, both at the personal level and at the level of society, of the regions not only progress but also survive. And in this respect, I believe that you will agree with me that no one has the right to maintain an existing state that turns the north of Croatia into a province. The basic guidelines of European policy are even development. Talking about even development, and if we didn't give people, young people of the region the same conditions as their peers would be demagogy. So I think the situation is completely clean and you'll agree with me on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110950	Thank you, too. Replicate response, distinguished representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110951	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament esteemed colleague Baranović, I fully agree, I have used the term set sport because it is a common phrase, but I can agree with you that there are better ways to say it. An expensive need is certainly something that I can fully agree with. Today, without education, it is very difficult for a person to participate in modern society, not only when we talk about jobs but generally and communication and the media and everything we face actually requires serious education. So I have nothing else to say but sign everything you said in your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110952	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110953	Thank you very much. So yes, the truth is that you said education was expensive sport, and you said even nicer when you talked about cost, so I answered. So you said how much per captain's cost per student and you said very clearly that's not a expense. You were explicit here. So this was one artistic freedom, and there you were an explicit colleague. And I fully support what you and the Vesna Railway have said, so this proposal from the government is best because it's only about the transfer of management rights. They brought us back to the 17th century in Leprechaun, but you associated me with this beautiful quote of yours, there's no such thing as an old Chinese proverb, some 3,000 years old, you know what a Chinese civilization was like. They say this, if you want good to your family, your street, your village, your region, your country, plant rice, if you want good for a few years. The rice is planted, planted, read, sold, but the drought comes, no more money, no more survival. If you want good for your village, your city, your region, your country, in 2-3 decades plant plums or down in the Neretva Mandarin or something like fruit, but then there comes the unbelief, cataclysm, the tsunamis, and it disappears. The key is this third, if you want well to your village, family, people, invest in people. That's the key. Only in people, because this is the only way we will help our region, in this case the northern region, our country, our country, Croatia's homeland and, of course, the European Union. So investing in people isn't a cost and that's a fact. It's not a cost, it's an investment in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110954	Thank you, too. The answer to the replica doesn't exist or does it? The discussion is semi-economy, it has to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110955	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with everything you said, but I want to say that we have a problem in the Republic of Croatia. We haven't fully realized that education really isn't a cost, and as long as we don't realize it, we're going to have to make some real calculations. I don't know, it's gonna be some tough math. Perhaps colleagues from the University of the North can help us to really calculate how much in some medium and long term each kuna we invested with how much it comes back or how much it costs every kuna we didn't invest, and we should and we could. And until we do, we're going to have a problem funding education and education-based development.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110956	We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is next to the club HSU in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Željko Šemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110957	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues, dear guests. We have before us a law according to which the towns of Koprivnica and Varazdin will receive two equal university centres that will significantly contribute to the education of young people in Croatia. As early as September 2012, two cities were struck by the foundations and the given guidelines for their development and orientation towards the needs of the local community. The main strategic goal of establishing the University of the North is to increase the number of highly educated citizens in the counties of the region of Croatia. All statistics show a markedly unfavourable structure and a low level of highly educated citizens of that part of Croatia. The average of highly educated citizens in the Republic of Croatia according to the 2011 census is 26% and only 17% in Croatia's counties. Therefore, in the next 10 years, the rise in the number of highly educated people in this region is to the average of the Republic of Croatia. All these years from this region, young people go to colleges in Zagreb. A lot of young people from Koprivnica, except in Zagreb, are also studying in remote Osijek today, which represents a great cost for their parents. Vuljanic's colleague is gone, but he asked one question, where did he come from? So I feel free to say that I am the predecessor of this university because in the 1970s, for example, I belonged to this poor generation that had no financial resources for the study in Zagreb, but had an extraordinary education with the support of Podravka at the Faculty of Organization and Informatics in Varazdin with the department in Koprivnica. Today, there are also a large number of parents, especially now at a time of crisis, who cannot pay their talented children accommodation, transportation and food in Zagreb or another city and thus ensure further education outside the residence. The new university system is designed to reveal the particularly capable human resources of the region, encourage the development and application of appropriate knowledge and skills for the development of the economy, the local community in which they live and in which conditions will be created to stay in their region, that they do not have to seek their bread in Zagreb or abroad. In order for the university to attract the enrollment of top students, it must have quality study programs, have to educate, create entrepreneurship personnel, encourage study of deficit professions, not create staff who will lose days on the market and look for work in vain in their profession. Every moving out and going to other people's countries, especially highly educated personnel, is a tragedy for every country. As a result, it should be systematically taken care that the best students at the end of the study are adapted to the labour market, remain in their area and be the holders of the economy and future development of their region where they were born. The decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of August 2012 and, in accordance with the contracts between the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and High Schools, enrolment in university study programmes should encourage education for natural, technical and biotechnical scientific areas. There is only a sisterhood study in the town of Varazdin in the field of biomedicine and health care, and there are no study programmes in the field of natural sciences. This university is founded to meet the needs of young citizens of northwestern Croatia with the task of developing the entire region primarily as a support to the economy, but also to social and cultural life as a whole. The town of Koprivnica has been working on a project to develop higher education and establish a university since 2006. The city was founded by a Committee on the Development of such an institution, a contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the settlement of former military facilities with the obligation to establish a university, i.e. the construction of campuses, but in return the town of Koprivnica must build a new building of the Palace of Justice, which cost the citizens of Koprivnica 32 million kuna. While other cities in the Republic of Croatia received a gift from the citizens of Koprivnica for years to pay for the construction of the Palace of Justice, which is now owned by the Republic of Croatia. The main objectives of the action of the University of the North are primarily to increase the number of highly educated inhabitants, to provide access to higher education to the highest number of residents and to the region with highly educated personnel from that region to support industry and the economy, and to the social and cultural life of the region and to further employ high-quality teaching staff with scientific and professional competences and scientific education. Thus, the new North University institution, through the realisation of these objectives, should be a major factor in the equal development of this part of Croatia primarily in economic and cultural, social and social aspects. The Croatian Party of Retired Representatives' Club will support the government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110958	Thank you too, dear colleague. We're continuing the club debate. It is now up to the respected representative Petar Baranovic on behalf of the DC club, Novi val and the People's Party of Reformists.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110959	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, few present on such an interesting topic and respected guests. Good evening, we've already entered into the night. To begin quotes from the Croatian Constitution: "Employment in the Republic of Croatia is accessible to everyone under equal conditions according to his abilities." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If you thought about how much this article is playing out today's topic, then perhaps today's entire debate on this topic would take as long as the tribune for the uplifted hand to pass the bill that is voted on. Whoever is voted will correct the great injustice suffered by Croatian politicians northwestern Croatia, correct great irresponsibility and washed the face of politics that allowed one centre to have a monopoly on everything in this country. So from this center and university, Croatia's largest university also comes a lot of criticism about this initiative to make the northwest equal to Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Osijek and other centres. As Colman said to himself, "Sports are expensive, and I am free to correct the expensive need to ask myself what kind of chance does the north have of becoming an evil province if it doesn't have its own university?" What chance does the university have without an equal position compared to other universities with the same task, has the same powers if we don't equalize those rights? The local self-government of northern Croatia should be grateful, because there are buildings, there are equipment, there are personnel, there are some enthusiasts, there are some of them up there at the gallery, which as an ashtray in the Croatian academic community were doing their job waiting for the Croatian Parliament to find them a glass shoe and bring and correct the injustice. Unlike others who worked on campuses from the state budget, bought equipment, paid salaries, paid seminars, went to symposiums. The North is fighting alone, creating it alone in conditions in which it lives today with the lowest average salary of all, almost all regions in Croatia. Let the colleagues who know it better to make it right if I'm wrong. Let's ask ourselves, do these people pay VAT? Yes, at the same rate as the people in Zagreb, the citizens of this country, on the coast, in Dalmatia, in Slavonia. When we were creating a state, did these people wear a colorful uniform? I remember them from those times. They did, although directly their homes weren't threatened. Do these people have the right to have their children, young people in the northwest start their lives under the same conditions as the Zagreb kids, those who were born in the 5,000-metre perimeter around Kaptol? They're absolutely right. Do these people have the right to have their children, young people of the northwest, start life under the same conditions as the Zagreb kids, those who were born in the 5,000-metre perimeter around Kaptol? They're absolutely right. Is it normal that 20 years since the creation of the Croatian state, since the postwar time, so 25 years, we have found ourselves in a situation to discuss this tonight? That 600,000 people in one region were only getting by through their local self-government units giving young people a minimal chance to succeed. Why is this university important, which is why it's important except for the personal breakthrough of every young man? What awaits a region where there is no academic community? What is the real space for the progress of society, economy, science? Not at all. The only thing that the region where the state deprives the chance of even development in this way can expect it to become a province. Did these people deserve it? Absolutely not. I believe that this will be one of the few legal proposals in our swamp of Croatian politics that has allowed us to discuss this at all for so many years after we have discussed it, so this will be one of the few legislative proposals that we will reach a consensus on by voting for our proposals, but ultimately for the proposals of others with only one goal for young people, academic community and citizens of the northwest to have equal opportunities and equal rights. Because in a country where this is practically not achieved, the Constitution is worth just as much as a weekly magazine. In many ways, in its application, the Croatian Constitution, in many niches, reduced the functioning of this society to a weekly magazine, let us not bring it to the weekly magazine when it comes to the right to education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110960	Thank you too, dear colleague. We continue, the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Sunčana Glavak together with the Vice-President of the House Željko Reiner. He's gone? Then it's just you fellows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110961	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues have mostly heard through my bill which we advocate, but what I would like to say and I was encouraged by a colleague who spoke before me is maybe we are a little self-secure in that part of Croatia, perhaps we are not loud enough, perhaps it is about mentality. Maybe we're used to doing things on our own and taking care of things on our own. However, we have equal rights, or we should have them just as everyone else does, not thinking that we are in some way discriminated against. But the fact is, it's from infrastructure projects, and if you want from sewers, it was all about self-dependence. They'll agree to trust their colleagues, we all live there, you know what I'm talking about, maybe that's why in 2015 and right now we're looking a little bit differently at these suggestions that are ahead of us. In any case, not taking more time, we have presented our proposal, we ask you to think about it, but in any case, the University of the North deserves its chance with one more repeat of the need for professional staff in both the teacher's staff and perhaps other studies, a college that will take place there and will be closely linked to labour market needs, not to educate staff who will find their place in the labour market among unfortunately a number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110962	Thank you, too, dear colleague. You're very rational. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. The first will be Marijan Skuric, please, a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110963	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. First of all, I would refer to one key question that we have raised several times in this debate during this evening, which is why we need a university, why we need knowledge, why we need education? The answer is that we really need it because first of all, if we want to be competitive in this global system of Croatia's EU accession. And the competitiveness in these cases doesn't show how much money we have in our pockets and how much weight we can carry on our backs rather than how much knowledge and ability we have in our heads. And we haven't seen it since today, we haven't seen it since yesterday, we've seen this need for years ago when universities were founded, when people were learning because they really wanted something more, something better for themselves, but also something more and better for their end, for their country and society as a whole. And of course everyone has the right to succeed, everyone has the right to develop. In that part when we talk about our macro-region of the north of Croatia we have the right to our university, we have the right to give everyone and children above all else, students and the lifelong education we have heard today and we have the opportunity to make it possible for us to do so. And yes, we may have been denied a lot of time. But I, first of all, would mention the mayor of Lepoglava once more, is that a little bit defined by fellow Igor, that at one point we were really side by side with the great European knowledge centers. But that moment was unfortunately 341 years ago when the first university of this region was founded in Lepoglav, 1674. And we can really say many great husbands at that moment along with Dubrovnik, along with Vienna in Lepoglav were promoted culture, knowledge and education. And I think that in this work after this debate of these esteemed colleagues, we can say that we can't wait another year, not one month, not one day, not to allow the establishment of a university, not to allow all of us to have the right to know and education. Because even as mayor, I can really say that all of those programs and projects that we've defined that we've been building on the development of young and educated people, that this is the foundation of all the foundations of the development of our end, of our environment. And I would mention once again that it defines the uses, and the reasons and goals for the establishment of the University of the North in the shortest lines, which is to improve the unfavourable educational structure of the northern region of the Republic of Croatia. With these 10% stakes of highly educated people, I don't think we can say that we have that competitiveness here. That we must also achieve a balanced development of all regions in the Republic of Croatia and that we really must correct the injustice towards our region. We're not going to be the callimeter, it's the right course of injustice. And we are the ones who are still in northern Croatia much more active, more proactive and we are fighting for our rights and we are fighting for what this region deserves. And that in all this we want education to bear our economic development potential and development of northern counties because if we just say this before I say that we have an unfavourable structure and development and it is said that the external region and the northern region is the most competitive region in the Republic of Croatia, so where would we end up having the opportunity to correct what we had as weaknesses and turn into our size, our strength and our advantage? And here it is also said that we have lost 8 years since 2001, at one point for 8 years it has not been possible to help us or invest to develop the university, but now the moment has come that here we are all, first of all, with our government, with our minister and us from the SDP, the HNS, we support and come to this decision and this quality solution. Of course, I am talking about the right of our younger citizens to also have access to higher education and not to say unfortunately from our region, it is still close to Zagreb, but there are many who study in Osijek, Split, and Rijeka, and Zadar. That these are the costs, the costs that many families give up just so that they can provide their children with education. Because they realized that education is the foundation of all life and development. Defining and creating the basis for the launch of new November programmes in line with the needs of local and regional economies is repeatedly said we need students, we need people who are competitive on the global global market, not only in this region and that they really contribute to the development of their local environments where they came from. And that there is the same advantage of why it should be done, is to thank the Koprivnica, and Varazdin who have been giving up through their resources that have not invested in other potentials to create the possibility of development and the foundation of our university. And I would really say that this law is therefore one of the best that allows for faster, better quality and ultimately cheaper achievement of these goals that we have set ourselves with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110964	Thank you too, dear fellow Skuric. It's time for the esteemed colleague, Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110965	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, please allow me, as an introduction to this debate, only a few information on the current state of play at the University of the North and its study programmes and of course the interests of students for them. The study programs of the University of the North are carried out in two equal university centres and this is the University Centre of Koprivnica and the University Center of Varazdin which contributes naturally to the availability of higher education throughout the region of northwestern Croatia. The University of the North teaches on eleven different study programs and of course two graduates, two at the graduate level and nine of which is nine at the pre-graduate level. Given that the University of the North schools mostly deficit staff, the only high school institution of this type in the wider region I'm talking about the diversity of study programs and sizes. Interest to enroll, of course, new generations at North University studies is growing from year to year. According to data from the Agency for Science and Higher Education at the academic year 2014-2015. The University of the North has achieved an enviable 18th position of 122 higher education institutions in the Republic of Croatia, which places the institution into the top 15% of institutions according to the interest of future students. It is precisely because of this interest that such a bill certainly makes sense because it recognises the needs of the local community as well as the needs of the students themselves. Therefore, the adoption of the Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament is the only real and rational solution that will begin to achieve the same rights and gain the same development opportunities as other regions of the state that have their own public university. The above is also corrected by a great imbalance in relation to other macro-region that already has its own public universities, as I have stated. The institution meets all the required quality standards in science and higher education and is in line with national European standards and quality assurance guidelines. The University of the North also responds to increasingly demanding and specific educational optimisms due to a series of facts that contribute to the existence of such an institution. Reduced study costs, cheaper nutrition, reduced mobility costs, better integration and continuation of secondary education, greater integration and co-operation with the economy. The establishment of a public university brings a great step forward and a great perspective for the entire local community. Attraction of students from other parts will increase of course public spending in cities from catering services, consumption of basic life needs, books and other. The cities will be filled with young people, leading to new cultural sports and entertainment content. The importance of this project has been recognised by the general public. During two public discussions on the website of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion of about 560 natural and legal persons from all structures of society. University professors, scientists, businessmen, cultural workers, heads of the local self-government unit, students and many others. That is why I am personally giving strong support to this law, and once again I will point out a few key reasons why this is the case. Of course, there is a need to improve the education structure of the northern region of the Republic of Croatia. As my colleagues have already pointed out, the data clearly show that this part of Croatia, the northern part of Croatia, lags behind the state average, is only one but large and significant step in the right direction. All regions in the Republic of Croatia should strive to develop evenly. The current situation that is unfavourable for residents of the northern region of several northern districts with hundreds of residents turning the University of North into a public university would finally get what all other regions in Croatia have for some time. I believe that the university will surely make a significant contribution to the local and regional development of the economy that has been spoken of by my predecessors. Young people from the north also have the right to access higher education in northern Croatia, by turning the University of the North into a public university all parents in this part of the Republic of Croatia would be able to study their children in a place where they live or very close to the place of residence. This would allow them significant savings in home budgets. Also, many parents cannot afford to go to study in another city, and this decision would open up an opportunity for much cheaper access to higher education. So let us as a representative from northern Croatia from the Varazdin County thank the Government, thank Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic for this bill because if adopted, and I believe he will adopt, this proposal will... new great opportunities for both this law and this decision to that part of northern Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110966	In the end, the respected representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110967	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Kolega Baranovic quoted the Constitution, Article 66, and we are parliamentary representatives and we have our Government which has clearly adopted its government programme for the term of office in 2011-2015 on accessible education for all citizens, and that in public institutions education will be free of charge for successful and regular students and financial support given to regular students for schooling especially during the economic crisis, the emphasis is on this especially at the time of the economic crisis. Today, thank God we are coming out of the recession according to and officially, let's wait for the results of the GDP growth institute in the last quarter and the damage to this trail that during the economic crisis, so 7.8.9 years ago, when it started, one good idea was not realized. And it wasn't realized that simply something that Racan's government was doing by establishing the University of Zadar in 2002, by setting up the University of Dubrovnik in 2003, they didn't continue, they didn't care, they just didn't care about having a lot of work to do, obviously. And then the economic crisis came and now we use the hard words of the poor, it is one of the hardest and ugliest words in Croatian, and I would like it not to be talked about in the Croatian Parliament. Those who have spoken obviously are not here now, so I ask them not to say it in the future. So that's a hard word, a hard word. Therefore, on the basis of this and the Constitution of Article 66, it is logical that the government's only logical proposal on the transfer of management rights for a whole series of reasons it would not now speak of, and I will only repeat, it is not just 3 counties of Varazdinska, Međimurska, Koprivnica but 50% of neighbouring Krapina-Zagorje, Bjelovar-Biogorska and Virovitsko-Podravska. Science is amazing, science is like a living stone, it's incredibly rapidly developing. We talked for three, four hours and believe me that many of the facts that were no longer valid three hours ago, and that new diseases, new knowledge, especially ICT technology, engineering, design of everything that's basically already a university in the north of electrotechnics, biomedical electronics may have developed. Therefore, once again, absolute support for the government's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110968	Thank you very much. Before I see whether the proposer's representative, the second and third finals, can't help but remind me that this debate dynamic and quality reminds me of one life's wisdom, says the difficulties are growing more and more that we are reaching our goal. So we have that in mind. Will the representatives of the finalist take the final word? Yeah. Representative of the Government, respected Deputy Minister of Science, Education and Sports Roko Andricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110969	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course, I thank you for the long and quality debate. What is clear to all of us here is that the common goal of all to continue the work of the University of the North as a public university in the Republic of Croatia. In the entire debate, you have repeatedly mentioned, and that is something that I wish as a representative of the Government to emphasize education, of course, must not and is not at any cost. So education is the most powerful weapon a country can have in the development of its society, in the development of everything society wants to be. And I hope that this proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is a proposal on the transfer of founding rights, which is the simplest in terms of its implementation in practice, will be accepted by the vote in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110970	Thank you, too. Honourable representative Natalija Martincevic in the closing statement on her proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110971	Here I would also like to thank everyone as a proposal for a constructive and positive debate. There were some exceptions, but they soon appeared to be without any arguments. I, of course, expect to support the People's Party-Reformists' proposal, it was eventually done in cooperation with the university. But in any case, if most support the government's proposal, we will also, of course, support the government's proposal because we have a common goal of making the University of the North public from a state-funded university. And someone said here you are now doing it for voters, of course we do it for voters, voters chose us, voters pay us, and it's our job to work here for voters. And I hope that here with this legislative proposal that will tomorrow at the vote I believe will pass many other good and constructive proposals. What I can say from the People's Party-Reformists certainly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-05-21-0.u110972	Thank you, too. Thank you very much. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote on the laws when the conditions are met. We'll stop working now. We will continue in plenary form tomorrow at 9.30, that is the Internal Affairs Minister's report on police operations in 2014. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow morning. Final draft law on the transfer of founding rights to the University of the North to the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 839. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote, plead. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 2 abstentions and 2 votes against, law P.Z. passed. No. 839 in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
