ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113323	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we will continue our session. We will discuss - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 853 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. I ask the Minister of Justice, Mr Orsat Milenic, to explain the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113324	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. It means a draft bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Relations in the part in which interest applies, in particular to legal tight interest rates. The fact is that Croatia has one of the highest rates in Europe of tight interest. I'm not going to get into how that happened, but it's just one thing that's been going on for years, for decades. On the other hand, what we do and that's why these legal solutions are, what happened to us is that we started to edit the interest into three different laws and I can say that the time is coming to unite all of this in one place, but here, it's a complex job, we want to intervene here as soon as possible for citizens to feel reduced legally tightened interest. That's why we're going to an emergency reading, and that's why we're going with this kind of intervention and through this law to another. What's changing? So the natural person where she was in debt so far was 12%, now it goes to 8.14%. When it comes to trade contracts and contracts between traders and public rights persons, it goes from 15% to 10.14. As regards business transactions between entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs and public rights persons from 12.14 to 10.14. Therefore, this rate of tightening interest on trade relations between traders and public rights persons is equated, as is the rate of legal tightening interest applicable to business transactions between entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs and public rights persons. So what's important is the reduction of the tight interest, on the other hand the equation. Thirdly, in order to make this happen, we're leaving the econtamination rate as a reference rate, we're introducing the second one, so the second basis for calculating interest. This will also result in a lot of talk, touch and contractual interest because they will also be reduced in part, but this is the result of the calculation because they were tied to legal tight interest. In one will increase, so that's the level of the rate of contractual interest between people one of whom is not a trader, it would increase from 12 to 12.21 but that doesn't apply to the permitted minuses as it was spoken of, so that wouldn't apply. Here's the short one. Here you have in terms of how much changes are made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113325	Nikola Vuljanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113326	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, this is actually great. You're going in a good direction, and the law is changing, so let's say, at least limit the extra profit of banks, which is one of the ways out of what we're in. I would be very happy if this law included two more things that are in the Law on Mandatory Relations, which we have talked about many times and did not come to a wise conclusion, which we should. One currency clause is a provision in a law that says that debt religious relations can be expressed not only in our national currency but also in some other wonders, including foreign currencies, gold, precious metals and such things. We have a small portion of sovereignty left. It's our national coin. We don't keep it the way we're supposed to, and I think it should be corrected in law. Another provision that should be made for some very rapid change to the Law on Mandatory Relations should be that of a criminal provision on a life-restraint contract. Thousands of old people in Croatia are left without property by thieving those for whom they have signed, lawyers, public notebooks and similar persons. They explained to me that our system would be legal without it feleric and I don't believe it, I think that provision should be removed from the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113327	Time. Minister Orsat Milenic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113328	Thank you very much. So these two questions that you've opened, they require one thing, first of all, I think that life support contracts, maybe they need to be dressed up in some segments, but I think they're the one institute we need. What's important is that people be as informed as possible about what they're getting into. That's what solemnization is for, it's for procedure. So no one should enter it without knowing what was going on and without making a decision of their own free will. As for the currency clause and everything else, it really requires a much wider discussion. We're going to an emergency procedure here just to define ourselves according to the tight interest that every day produces its effect. We need to settle this now, and any other changes, maybe wider zoos can come to the table later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113329	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113330	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, such an important area regulated by the Law on Mandatory Relations and now the proposal to amend them hastily explained what are the advantages and why it is changing and in whose favour this law is changed. And how it's possible that one law to change three laws, how it's possible that you law should prevent inversions and paradoxical situations, and this law produces exactly such inventive phenomena. You are changing the law to another Law on Mandatory Relations and you are saying what is changing, which article is being amended in the second and third laws. You're changing three laws. You say you are leaving an econtamination rate as a reference rate, and the EU directive is just saying that for non-EU members of the monetary union there must be a reference rate, the rate set by the central bank. You're leaving it. And the simplest thing is that this administrative central bank that has an administrative escontamination rate is to just decrease from 7 to 2 or 3% and solve the problem. But what's the biggest problem you don't explain why you've changed that legal interest doesn't count when it's indeterminate, agreed interest more for one quarter of a tight interest, but for one half. This means that it goes to the benefit of the debtors, and in favour of the creditors because it is automatically increasing and it is precisely brought when so many claims by the creditor are prepared to sue the banks. And you're doing this right now in favor of these banks. And just one more thing? Why emergency procedure? Well, because the other day we passed a unique methodological nomotechnic rule for making acts that forbid one law to change another law, and that's exactly what you're using this space for. before this unique proposal comes into force. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113331	Thank you very much. Minister Orsat Milenic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113332	Thank you very much. So if you don't want to do something, you can always find a reason for not doing it. One of these is why an emergency procedure. Let's let the citizens pay a little longer a tight interest at this rate. Right? For 20 years, no one's done anything, and now you're in the way of an emergency procedure. And why is it urgent? To start using them as soon as possible, very simple. Why are we changing these other laws? Same reason. Because if we don't do it now, I'm from the beginning when I said I should, that we need to go towards a systematic solution. However, a systematic solution will require a few months, and this is something that will start much earlier. That's why we're going with it. As far as the directive is concerned, you should look at what it says and this will be determined by the CNB. So what's the difference? So CNB, the central bank will determine this. And this is what we as a government and what Parliament can do and intervene to reduce legal tight interest. As far as what you're saying about the contract going up, she's not going up. As you see well and you know from the calculations I've only said in one small segment of zone 021 basically goes for 076 down, 86 down. And that's something you also have a calculation and you can read and see. So, I don't know why you're telling the citizens now that they're gonna get it together. Okay. I'm telling you how it is. You will plead according to the law. We checked him out, dressed him up. He's here and that's it, and an emergency procedure to get started as soon as possible. I'm sorry he hasn't gone before, but now that we've gone with this and we're going with this, we're going with this solution as soon as possible. And if you need to make a systematic solution, I agree with you that you need all the interest to be united in one place, that you don't need to be in three laws, that's correct. However, this is the same Croatian heritage as we have, now we're going to be wearing this fast, and we're going to be dealing with this systematically soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113333	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Leftist Club, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113334	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished Minister Milenić with associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Right away I tell you at first our club supports the law and the law is welcome, I agree with that. There hasn't been anything done in 20 years on interest, and it's good to do it now. Maybe it could have been sooner and it should have been before, and you ministers certainly know it, we all know it. But it is commendable that this government has done what the previous governments have not done and is doing what may have had to be done immediately after the formation of the state. However, I am concerned by one thing that my colleague Vuljanic already spoke in his replica is actually the position of the club. It's the club's position, and I've personally spoken here at least twenty times in the Assembly on various topics it's legal debt slavery. Legal debt slavery is governed by the Law on Mandatory Relations, or by the provision that loans are related to foreign exchanges, meaning a foreign exchange clause. It is absolutely certain that the foreign exchange clause calls into question the financial sovereignty of monetary sovereignty. If Kuna is one of the most stable currencies in the world, why the exchange clause? And all the time the governor of the CNB ex and today says that the kuna is one of the most stable and there's no reason why we're afraid that the kuna will devalue. The question is why is there still a currency clause? There are different forecasts that would happen if the exchange clause was lifted. Of course, those who work for the benefit of banks, who work for the benefit of large capital, who support the foreign exchange clause, are catastrophes who say the system would collapse if the currency clause was abolished. For the first time, it seems to me that the governor, former Governor Rohatinski, spoke of the possibility of the foreign exchange clause by transferring the ball to the Croatian Parliament in 2011 at the 5th month at the meeting of economists in Opatija when he said the CNB, which is true, does not determine the foreign exchange clause, is not in it to resolve the issue it is in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament on the government's proposal. And then he said it was time to start thinking about it, talk, discuss in the Croatian Parliament about the gradual abolition of the foreign exchange clause or banning the granting of loans under the foreign exchange clause. In 2015, Minister Milenic said earlier that removing the currency clause would require a deeper and longer discussion. Imagine from 2011 to today, that means she was then the Prime Minister of Mrs. Kosor, until today we could discuss a thousand times. It's never been discussed. Even when we proposed to Mrs Kosor to put on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, the foreign exchange clause was rejected, as this government refused to discuss the foreign exchange clause. Never did anyone from this pay phone tell us exactly with precise calculations what would happen if the exchange clause was lifted? What would happen and why we allow credits that are raised under the foreign exchange clause to remain such, allowing the foreign exchange clause to remain in the contracts, and still when loans are taken must be taken with that indication that loans are related to foreign exchanges. That is, so this government allows for what previous governments allowed. We have repeatedly debated the need and disbursed means to share the risk of the loan between the borrower and the creditor and the state. This government has done and made some steps. When we asked for it, we were called populists. Now I'd like to ask the minister if this is populist or did we get labels so purely political? I don't think this is a populist act, that this is an act that serves citizens, it's in favour of citizens like our proposals for the benefit of citizens. So, the mistrust of the Kuna must be clearly said for years has been built primarily by banks, and banks have supported governments, all the governments so far and the greatest culprit for this CNB I have said and I will repeat who treated the citizens and done more damage than aggression against Croatia. More citizens will end up under the covers than there are without houses at the time of the war. They will be more threatened by taking apartments than they suffered during the war. And I'm going to talk about one more topic, and that's the subject that we just pointed out, and that's life support. The minister said, and I saw that a colleague from the ruling coalition opposed what Mr Vuljanic suggested, that perhaps it should be specified, that it should be clarified. So why don't we do it? Which is why for children, grandchildren, relatives, neighbors, associations, private homes of pensioners, religious communities, old and powerless have become a gold mine. There are thousands of examples that you can read about that they are old and powerless who have given their property. So there is one example of 3 million kuna that the religious community specifically took the Catholic Church in Zagreb without the knowledge of children under suspicious circumstances. After that, threats followed. It's what relatives do, it's what the closest ones in the family do, and they leave the old and powerless with no resources and actually almost throw them on the street. That's something to change. How? I guess the minister knows. They're being robbed through wills, donation contracts, life contracts and life support contracts. It's simple when people of a third age, when they become powerless, when they can't take care of themselves if they're exposed to fraud, so I've listed the institutions and individuals in which the lawyers, judges, doctors and public notebooks are present. These are the people who help to take away the property of those who gave their property under good faith. Why does the state allow that? It is the state that must protect the citizens, especially the most sensitive. And certainly the most sensitive with children and disabled persons are the elderly and especially powerless ones who cannot care for themselves. They're amazing judgments of the courts, they're amazing the spells of a lawyer who deals with these affairs, it's actually another new mafia allowed by this very law. And this law needs to be changed, and there's an emergency procedure. I also agree with the urgent interest reduction procedure. The Independent Left-wing Club will support this law but will continue to advocate that these two very important components of this law are changed and that finally Croatian citizens have their currency because the kuna was not a Croatian currency, it was a budgetary asset. Before we had a deutsche brand, today we have a euro and a kuna that is stable we have limited the foreign exchange clause and allowed the banks a large robbery, we have allowed banks of power, financial centres of power to put Croatian, a large number of Croatian citizens in debt slavery who will feel not only their children but also their grandchildren, and that should be changed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113335	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113336	I'm glad your colleague recognized that this law is of quality, that it is good, that it is in the interests of the citizens and I agree with you, and that is also the motive for the adoption of this bill to lower that high-stricken interest. Because high-stricken interest has no economic justification. It is for citizens especially people in need, and it is for all those who raise loans, but also for those who want to do fair and proper business, a clean racket. And that's why I welcome your debate in that part. I wouldn't agree with you on life support, it's one institute that's always existed. Unfortunately, there is no contract, so there is no legal law among the parties, there is unfortunately no provision and there is no good provision that cannot be misused. I think that this institute is just, we need it, we need it, and it's just. Because there are people who are honest, young people who will take care of the elderly whether they're related to them or not, who leave this property to them, but unfortunately their own children flee from their own parents who are neglecting them, and then they sue that someone, these other heirs, willful heirs or heirs, have become their owners for life. Therefore, there are people who are honest, who want such contracts in the interests of both parties, but I agree with you that we need to see that every contract is not being abused and that the state there is fast and efficient. Unfortunately, something much worse and harder that happens that people, young people, that their whole wide and narrow, narrow and wider family helped buy an apartment, and that apartment was then a failed company resold or the bank had over it, over it and ran out of anything. There's something we should do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113337	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113338	Dear colleagues, Anticevic-Marinovic, we agree on this law and these provisions on high-stricken interest because banks have become unfair competition with lenders because they were in favour of high interest. And part, a small part of the injustice is rectified. But what you've been telling the law has to be that and the practice has to be that, but the practice of courts, you have a number of, just look at the Internet, you have a number of convictions where the courts are on the side of those who robbed them. So the courts ruled in their favor because they say good contracts. Nobody cares if these people really care about old and powerless people. What kind of state allows that? What is this legal system that allows old and powerless to be hungry, to live in impossible conditions, not to be cared for by those who have taken over the role of caring? It's a question in practice. And the laws need to be so that as little as possible makes such a practice possible. And to whom today, they ask me, yesterday a lady from the river called me and asked who she could complain? Well, no one can. He says can I take it to the Parliament? I say I'll just have a laugh in Parliament. It'll be populism. How can one even make an example say that this country is not doing something? This example of what I was saying with the church is about 3 million kuna, 3 million kuna worth of real estate. Bishop Posajic threatened his daughter, there is, this is a known case, that he must not go public with this because he will endanger the religious community. And he'll put his mother at greater risk. It's terrible things that we just go through, like it's not happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113339	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113340	Dear colleague Vuksic, to me, I will also support this proposal because I think it is good. But I wouldn't agree with your thesis if nothing had been done for 20 years. I will remind you that in 2004, an authentic interpretation of the legal tight interest was passed, then interest was abolished on interest. One legitimate interest rate when people were left without houses because of a couple of thousand or a few hundred kunas that they owed there in '93, '94, 2000, with no houses, no property, just because of those interest rates on interest. Therefore, the new Law on Mandatory Relations at that time in 2005 has just accepted that fact. Thus, at that time, it was a serious shame that existed legally and legally implemented and the courts carried it out using some comfort, some proportional method at that time it was abolished. Thus, it is not true that nothing for 20 years has seemed to benefit people. I agree that we need to constantly lower legal tight interest rates. Maybe this should have come at the beginning of the term of office, not at the end of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113341	Branko Vuksic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113342	Dear colleagues of Skara Ozbolt, 2004 so 11 years didn't really seem to have occurred since then. It would be good if when you lifted interest on interest that you'd lower those interest rates. WHO, then, increased interest if they were reduced to a reasonable measure? Then it means someone increased after that. Therefore, the Croatian state has never systematically protected Croatian citizens, never systematically. Measures have been taken that have always been to put out a small fire, it's never systematic. A little while ago, the minister said the time was coming to bring all these problems together. So which government will bring it together? When will it unite some future government? This will probably happen now in the pre-election campaign, those who claim power will say they will unite it, and then the fourth year will come, and the same few palitative steps will be taken and then they will say again we will solve it in the next term. And people are moaning under debt slavery, and people are getting harder and harder. And the biggest problem that is right now is the exchange clause that enables the robbery of Croatian citizens, it's lurking the thick neck of a fat geese, a sad goose still. I'm actually sad to see the Minister of Finance hooking up with what banks are doing, threatening with an empty rifle. All this government can do, the government has a majority in Parliament and can vote any law, it can agree with experts and I think the next move is that those who will end the foreign exchange clause that will make the order and who will set up the banks as well as the fact that they will remain in your power for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113343	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113344	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yes, the situation is and I agree with my predecessor simply dramatic. In just 4 months this year, the debt of blocked citizens increased by as much as a billion 750 million kunas, data from FINA. So at the end of April, there were 322,329 citizens in the blockade, and their total debt, due to which FINA blocked accounts amounted to 32 billion 810 million kuna. Last year, at the end of December, it was 31 billion and 60 million kuna. More and more citizens are coming to the list, and data from FINA say that the blocked account has 7.81% of Croatian citizens and even 11.51% of the working-age population. And I said the situation is alarming. Today, however, I read in a newspaper the cover of "Go to strike with a net salary of 53,000 kuna" is about flight controllers. I agree that they do one of the most stressful jobs with deminers if they can express themselves. I'm looking at severances based on collective agreements from 500 to millions of thousands of kunas. I said let them have it, but I think you should be more careful than that. Understandable when it comes to these interest rates that something needs to be done. I think it's a small step, but it's an important step, in one word we evolve. What is this law about? The proposed changes in the rate of legally tightened interest rates for trade contracts and contracts between traders and public rights persons will be reduced from the current 15% to 10.14%, and for business transactions between entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs and public rights persons in which the public right person is in debt from the current 12.14% to 10.14%. In other relationships governed by the Law on Mandatory Relations, we see that the level of tight interest will be reduced from the current 12 to 8.14%. I agree with those who have said that so far tight interest in the Republic of Croatia has been the most greasy in Europe. They were charged by everyone, not only by banks to understand each other, charged by the state, charged by local self-government, charged by municipal services, etc. What counts, or the government, is that the debt of blocked citizens will not increase annually by 3.6 billion kuna on the basis of this new interest calculation but "by only 2.4 billion kuna". So this law is about a billion and 200 million kunas at an annual level. So for so many less-stricken interest, it doesn't matter now, the state, local self-government, municipal services, banks, etc. A billion and 200 million kuna, what's that? That's about half of the Peles Bridge. And the second thing I'm also trying to say is, what would it look like in practice? For example. If someone had 10,000 kuna, and now at a tight interest rate of these 8.14% after five years, the citizen would pay a tight interest of 4,787 kuna or 14.787 kuna, and at 12% to 10,000 kuna after five years he would pay 17.627 kuna. There's nothing to talk about, we see what it's really about. The Justice Department, somewhere I read the account, that only in court proceedings will the debt be lower at an annual level of about 800 million kuna. Banks are otherwise paid by Croatian citizens for 122 billion kuna credits. Even this legal intervention, the Amendment to the Law on Mandatory Relations, the reduction of tight interest support strange but even support bankers. But why? So that interest would lose that criminal effect. However, clearly there are still many, many problems when it comes to banking policy or interest policy in the Republic of Croatia. I said we evolved along with, recently, an intervention was made, the problem wasn't entirely solved with Swiss but I'm asking myself here and in front of the Minister of Justice what about these famous Raiffeisen cooperatives or lenders from Austria? Whether the government will finally react or these cooperatives, more specifically the Austrian lenders, will continue to play with Croatian citizens. Police authorities in Austria who conducted the investigation say 75% of Croatian citizens cannot repay their obligations. In Austria, they are closed by the directors of these cooperatives, these lenders and the highest officials of the Republic of Croatia are receiving these same interest rates. And it really is, if it is a bit of a loan to paraphrase Cardinal Kuharic, then these loans are Raiffeisen's banks. Will anyone in this matter finally respond? On Friday, I went to one of such citizens in Istria, not far from Buzet, took 100,000 euros in credit, paid back 160,000 euros, after not paying 2 wars, such a contract, seized his house and now sold him a house for 130,000 euros. That, that's what's happening on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. Those Austrian lenders were getting my support from the top officials of this country. The PR is doing them Macan Manjgur, who represented the former president of IDS, etc., and they're racketeering and nobody's doing anything, but it's okay, come on, some courts are running and maybe something's gonna work out. I agree with those who have said that Croatia is threatening a serious problem under the quotes of these foreign exchange clauses. It's not only the Swiss problem, it's the euro. When the Swiss jumped to about 7.4 kuna, then he found himself immediately, then a transitional solution was found but here again at Raiffeisen Savings, which have no note ben approval for working on the ground of the Republic of Croatia, nothing happens. Without the currency clause, the governor of the Croatian National Bank says we will remain when we introduce the euro. How is it with the euro best shows perhaps the case of Greece. But, well, let's let it go now, it's evolved, four, five years ago, interest was lifted, the Swiss were returned to me at 6,36, there's now a proposal for a solution to the tight interest, we're evaluating, we need to survive, so I guess it's time for these Raiffeisen savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113345	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC, New Wave, People's Party-Reformists of counterpart Vesna Škare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113346	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with an assistant, Our club will support these amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Relations, we keep them extremely important, we regret that this has not happened before, we think that the same thing could have been applied and started at the beginning of the term of office of this government. In a way, I feel for it, and I know how much pressure it is on both the minister and the other minister today, and I personally went through it when we lifted those famous interest rates on interest. And I know these decisions aren't simple, maybe they're one of the hardest times in the ministry. However, it is absolutely necessary to support this proposal. The truth of the law practically takes effect immediately. And that's good, even though it might be a bit of a panic term, or simply in a way too fast, too fast. But here's a better law than the existing one, or better these changes and additions than the existing one. The rate of legal tightening interest is set out in Article 29 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Act on Mandatory Relations as a general law and Article 12a of the Financial Business Act and pre-demand settlement as a special law. For the EEA Joint Committee The law on mandatory relations is prescribed that the rate of tight interest... relations from trade contracts and contracts between traders and public rights persons as creditors determine for each half-year by increasing the escort rate of the Croatian National Bank which was worth the last half-year preceding the current half-year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian National Bank has so far been obliged to publish an escort rate in the National Journal on 1 January and 1 July. In addition to the maximum rates established in trade contracts and contracts between traders and public rights persons, it was possible to negotiate a different rate of legal tightening interest. In this case, the provision of a contract on a different rate of tightened interest was irrelevant if, in the light of the circumstances of the case and, in particular, of trade practices and the nature of the obligation in question, the contracted rate of tightened interest contrary to the principle of awareness and honesty resulted in obvious imbalances in the rights and obligations of the parties. In the assessment of whether the provision of a contract on the rate of tightening interest is non-injurious, it will be taken into account, inter alia, whether there were reasonable reasons for the derogation from the law provided for in the tightening interest rate. The rate of the tightening interest applies to a period of 1 year, so the contract provision which provides for interest when they arrive for payment starts with interest if they are not paid. Article 12a of the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement stipulates that the rate of legal interest on late payments in business transactions between entrepreneurs and public-law persons in which a public-law person is a debtor of a monetary obligation equal to the reference rate of 8 percentage points and the reference rate was the basic interest rate for late payment and is equal to the average interest rate on credits granted for a period of more than one year to non-financial corporations calculated for the reference period preceding the current half-year reduced by 1 percentage point. This reference period also covered 6 months until the last half-year preceding the current half-year, including that month. The provisions on the rate of legal tightening interest are also laid down in Article 12a of the same law as a specific law and relate to monetary obligations between entrepreneurs and between entrepreneurs and public rights persons in which the public rights person is a debtor, while the provisions of Article 29. The law on mandatory relations as a general law applies to all others. Both of those laws allow for regulated relations to negotiate the rate of legally tightened interest with a limit to the level of legally tightened interest. The problem is obviously the highest rate of contractual interest prescribed in Article 26. The law on mandatory relations but differs from whether they are contracted by traders, persons who are not traders or persons of public law. In the sense of the Law on Mandatory Relations, public rights persons are obliged to comply with public procurement regulations other than companies and, if more interest is agreed than permitted, the most permitted interest rate shall be applied. The contractual interest rate refers to a period of 1 year, so the contract provision which provides that when they arrive for payment, interest will start to flow if they are not paid. When we look at all this for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2015, the highest contractual interest between entrepreneurs and public rights persons as debtors was 12.4%, according to the Law on Mandatory Relations in Trade Contracts and Contracts between Merchants and Public Rights as Trustees was 15%, legal and highest contractual. In a contract that at least one person did not trade legal interest was 12%. The rates of contractual interest for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2015 were 18% in trade contracts and contracts between traders and public rights persons, contracts where at least one person is not a trader of 12%. It's just a reason to accept these amendments and supplement the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113347	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113348	You tell your colleagues by supporting this bill that it really might be because you've experienced it yourself in those attempts you've been talking about to curb interest or reduce, to prevent practically interest on interest, to make difficult decisions. As difficult as they are, I think they are happy for this government, because there is no basis, regardless of what the bank association has said it will appeal to the Croatian European Union because it is absolutely at the level of the European Union's recommendations and within the framework of the protection of its own citizens. This is exactly the opposite, the non-reaction, the question is then really how to protect the citizens and how we've protected them so far, because this high interest, as you said yourself, and all predecessors so far, is really nothing but the law of interest, and according to our Penal Code, interest is forbidden. In addition, it from a moral point of view, regardless of the crisis and the trouble, has no justification, nor from a socioeconomic point of view because it leads, every loan with such high interest, tightened interest leads to the destruction of such a family, leads to severe consequences, to suicides, as well as to the involvement or guidance of others on suicide is a hard crime, and many people have not seen the exit, first of all, as it began in Italy where even the widows' association was founded, people who killed themselves because they couldn't, they didn't see the exit. So the only thing wrong with this bill I think you agree with is that here's what's gonna come late but it's fate with all the good stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113349	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113350	You know, colleagues of Antičević, I, as Parliament's representative of the opposition in 2002, submitted authentic interpretations of legal tight interest. That's when the government of Hansel Racan accepted my authentic interpretation, but the law never came to the debate session. When I became Minister of Justice, the first thing I did was to make an authentic interpretation of the legal tightening interest proposal as the minister of justice in the Parliament, and that's when Parliament accepted it. I am very aware of what the Minister and one and this Minister and Minister of Finance are exposed to when it comes to the reduction of legal tightening interest because that is what we were faced with then. The question arises who installed it and how it came to be that we had a whole series of years of interest on interest and that people were practically suffering because of it. However, here you yourself have said good laws come always in the end. It doesn't have to be. It was possible to propose this law, such bold changes and additions, even at the beginning of the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113351	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Work parties of fellow Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113352	Dear colleagues and colleagues, vice presidents and Mr. Minister. These days I've heard many statements from a neoliberal capitalist advocate, saying criticising banks is the easiest. And they're always the center of evil power, it's populism. Well, this bill of law has been characterized as populist. Ministers with great impatience await the day when you will come with a proposal to amend that part of the obligation, the Law on Mandatory Relations relating to the foreign clause, and sooner or later you will have to do so because you are now aware of how evil she has done. It didn't go twice, third time, and God helps say so I'm sure. According to the Croatian National Bank last year, 18 billion and 800 million interest revenues were in Croatia. The net interest income had some expenses was 10 billion and 200 million, which was growth compared to the year before. The net revenue from commissions and fees is almost 3 billion and more than a year ago. The bank's largest credit and most credits were paid to citizens, as much as 43.7%, to companies 37, state units 15, and housing loans that stagnate in the civil credit structure are preceded by housing loans but therefore cash and non-intentional loans are growing. Thus, in terms of the income of the interest bank in Croatia in the crisis, they lost almost nothing, and in the operational structure of income or the structure of operating income of interest banks account for even more than 71%, and 21.4% of commissions and fees were never such a large share of bank revenues with these purposes. So, observed for the last 5 years, the share of commissions and fees has been increased to as much as 21.4%. But despite this data and what I said, I'm going to bring my reserves to the proposed law. And my reserves are neither the same nor the likes of the banking lobby, and it seems to me that they were even more hindrance to this law than they were serious about, because they didn't explain what was bothering them in that law. My first reason for the reservation, Mr. Secretary, is an emergency procedure. You said 20 years didn't do anything, so let's get on with the emergency procedure. I'd like two readings for the quality of the law, not the timing of the team itself. We could have our first reading this week, next week's second reading for quality, and I'll explain what's controversial about it. Secondly, this law changes three laws, not one but three, and it's very simple. You could offer amendments to 3 laws, 3 provisions or suggest an emergency procedure of a single interest law. And all interest and tight and regular regulation given into a special law, not having it scattered into multiple laws. That's actually the purpose of this law, the unwritten goal is this because it's practically happening now. So it'd be a lot cleaner then. Third of all, you've made a temporary mess of things. So for example, in this law we have a percentage point, interest increases, decreases by x percentage points. These are Articles 3 and 4 of these amendments, and then we have in Article 5 percentage points, so the interest goes up or down by x percentage points again, because this is due to the fact that in one law there are points, in another point. And now we have a third law with points and points. I think we should agree whether in Croatia we have percentage points like in football, say, when you compete or points like in volleyball when... But it's not good to use different ones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They should be worth it if they mean the same thing to me, but we call them different, which is the consequence that different resolutions have written different laws, and now, by emergency procedure, one law has two terms. Fourthly, in terms of the situation, you have calculated, simulated that a tight interest rate for traders will be between traders 10.14 for citizens 8.14. So, it's going to fall. Okay. How much is the maximum rate agreed under Article 26 for citizens, for traders, for consumer loans? Maximum contractual interest rate. That's not a word. So it could have been written, because of the clarity of the citizens and all those who are a little harder to read the law or read only changes and additions, and not the provisions that remain, they don't change, and then they bring confusion and the reasons for my abstention. So, the PR message of this bill is we're going to limit and reduce tight interest. That's good and that's true. But agreed interest rates can be higher than tight interest rates. Therefore, after these amendments to the law, the agreed interest rate per credit may be greater than the tightened interest prescribed by law. And it applies after entering the late payment, which I will do with specific provisions. Article 2 of the maximum rate of agreed interest says a tight interest rate increased by half of that rate. 8.14 is maximum tight interest, increased by 4.07 is 12.21. Since a higher agreed interest rate can be agreed on than a tighter rate, then I ask when a tighter interest actually applies? Paragraph 3, if no interest rate is agreed, it says, one half of the rate of tightening interest for citizens. So far, when no interest rate was agreed, one quarter of the tight interest rates, one quarter were applied. One quarter of 12 was 3, and one half of 8 is 4. And for these citizens, a tight, or slow settlement if the interest rate is not agreed, rises by 30%, from 3 to 4%. And what good is it to the citizens now if we increase the legally prescribed method of calculating the interest rate if the interest rate is not agreed with the contract? We're increasing it by 30%. According to the Frank Association, about a million citizens who will now have higher interest obligations, members of the family are, of course, in trouble. And that's why I've made an amendment to that provision that, and beyond that, one quarter of the law on tight interest remains, and that doesn't increase to one half. So that the existing legal provision remains in force and not to increase. Article 5(2), consumer credits, writes, the maximum agreed interest rate equally tightened interest plus 2 percentage points. So on consumer loans, the maximum agreed interest rate can be 10.14% after this simulation. Okay? Minuses on current bank citizens' accounts are treated as consumer credit. Article 29, point 6 of the existing law, which does not change, reads as follows: "If an interest rate is agreed, the interest rate is higher than the interest rate of the current and after the debtors are delayed." Therefore, after late repayment of the loan, if the agreed interest rate is higher than the tightened interest rate shall not be applied tight but the agreed interest rate shall be applied. It's the first time we've had this. Which is a relief for those we increase the calculation if the interest rate is not agreed, from 3% to 4% on the current account. You see, these qualitative repairs in achieving the goal of tightening the interest rate to limit and reduce but then even more just limits to agreed interest rates is the reason for the second reading. Why would they allow the agreed interest rate to be a tight interest rate plus 5 percentage points? And it applies after entering the delay. Practically tight interest rate, which would now be 8.14%, will not be applied to most citizens and debtors. Because they have already agreed interest rates more than new tight interest rates in this law. And they'll be used all the time. I said you could suggest three amendments to the three laws to come into line with those rules that the Parliament adopted last week or what I think would be very clear if we regulated interest policy as a whole, and regular and tight interest rates. In your response to the amendment and to my claims, which I am sure are correct, that for a large number of debtors this new reduced tension will not contribute much to the club's final position on this bill. And I end up with the following, whenever we protest an emergency procedure, it's not about an emergency procedure but about wanting as much information, calculation, data and verification as possible when we vote on the law to make sure it brings improvement to the citizens, that we don't miss some of the citizens or certain categories that we forgot about because we were in a hurry. And I don't believe that five days of differences in adoption or seven days of differences in the adoption of this law would disrupt the government's objectives to protect some of the citizens. Yeah, part of the citizens will get protection. But in my view, most of those who already have contracts will not enjoy the benefits of restrictions or reductions in the laws of the prescribed tight interest rates.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113353	Nikola Vuljanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113354	Thank you. Your colleague Lesar said interesting data about bank profits in the previous period, their incomes increased significantly both with interest base and with various fees. At the same time, GDP was either standing or falling. The other day I read that the number of those in Croatia with more than 50 million dollars in property has increased practically by 50% from 200 to 300 and something. At the same time, GDP either stands or falls. What conclusion can you actually draw from that? Don't you think someone's robbing someone? How different to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113355	Dragutin Lesar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113356	Thank you for offering my colleague Vuljanic's conclusion. He has a theory of a cooked frog, how to capture a nation without using a weapon without resisting it. They say if you put a frog in, throw in hot water it'll jump like lightning out, but if you put it in the shade of water and slowly warm it up it'll cook and not even move. In approach to putting one state under control and control and citizens and authorities, the second move was to privatise banks and sell banks in foreign ownership. The third objective was to impose market laws as a rule that must not be discussed with the claim that only market laws allow progress. It is the third point that the banking lobbys are called upon to say that their money is goods and that they have the right to sell at the price they want or to achieve on the market and that the state cannot limit or regulate that right. And now we've reached the fourth point, it's a request for deregulation of everything when it comes to the interest of the financial lobby. Unfortunately, Croatia has been trapped many years ago with foreign banks' interests, and this can be seen by the fact that the state is more in debt to the foreign financial market than on the domestic market, and that the citizens whose share of loans exceeds 42% of the money they receive from mothers, in the banks of mothers abroad, I guess everyone in Croatia already knows that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113357	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113358	I am pleased to see you supporting interest reduction, but you are also opening with the right question of the level of agreed interest. Because here I will remind you, because you also said that these high loans are nothing more than interest rates of interest, high interest, on the provision of Article 243. A penal code that says what a loan agreement is and predicts punishment. Whoever takes advantage of the necessity, inexperience, greed, reduced thinking ability or a significant weakness of the will of another person, receives from it or with it contracts for himself or another property benefit which is obviously disproportionate to what he has given, did or committed to be given or made in prison for up to 3 years. And if the perpetrator is engaged in this activity, so he obtained a substantial property benefit, he will be punished from 1 to 8 years. When laws are done, we must put ourselves in the role of these people seeking credit, they are not completely free people in their will and this. Everyone takes credit because it's in some kind of emergency. And therefore, it is the maximum need to protect him, and I believe, therefore, supporting this interest reduction that the government will also consider what you said about the level of the agreed interest because the banks could only resort to this institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113359	Dragutin Lesar's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113360	My colleague Ingrid, that's exactly why I have a reservation under that law and I'm asking a question and I'm looking for answers. If they tighten interest on citizens we limit them to 8.14, and we allow banks to negotiate interest of 12.21, because the legal interest rate is increased by half that rate, that's 12.21. The largest number of credit debtors in Croatia from an emergency, not all of them, but most of them did not take out loans from an emergency, did not buy luxury. We're really going to make a situation now that banks are going to negotiate interest rates higher than tight rates and they're going to be charged rather than a tight interest rate. And it becomes dysfunctional, there is no need at all, and there is no need at all, if we allow any credit relations after entering the delay to apply a higher interest rate than prescribed by the law of tight interest rates, in particular, to those where no interest rate has been agreed, and so far one quarter of the tightened interest rate has been applied, and these changes predict that this will increase to half the legal tight interest rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113361	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113362	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So the emergency procedure always causes attention and a legitimate reaction, regardless of who passed the bill, and since there is no quality problem in the emergency procedure. And that's why we don't need to evaluate politics if someone has an urgent observation. Because two readings can be done in two weeks, we could have done this all by the summer break. But the question is always what does the law want to achieve? As a rule, the legislator reacts under public pressure and under the pressure of a particular situation, and it is usually quite late. The legislator, and it is not just about this bill, the legislator would have to predict the situation, have to act preventively, have to be able to overestimate what is going to happen and how to pass the law in order to avoid a certain situation and achieve the desired situation. And not when the strike comes, the strike is announced, so let's go change. If something and an emergency procedure contributes to a certain change in a vulnerable group of people, then no one reasonable can be against it, but this should not appear on another field of new inversion and a new paradox, the law must not produce new paradoxes, and it seems to me that this is the product. The minister said in the opening statement that the tightening interest in Croatia is the largest in Europe. Mr. Minister, it's not only tight, it's interest in general. Regular interest is far the largest of all EU members in Croatia, even from EU candidate countries and from them twice as large. Who is responsible for the level of interest rates and the height of the tight interest rates? So far and if it's a bad condition or if it's a good condition, who's responsible for it? According to the Law on Mandatory Relations and under other laws, the CNB is responsible for the level of interest rates, both regular and tight because, under the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Escontary Rate was the basis for determining the legal interest rate. Why was the height of the tight legal interest high? Because the escontaneous rate that nothing in Croatia represents, but nothing, except the basis for the calculation of tight interest, and it was always too high and today is 7%. No transaction or escountation was carried out in 20 years at an escontaneous rate in Croatia. And, of course, when someone doesn't do their job, then the other institution has to react, and then they make mistakes. Interest rates and credit structure have the most impact on the country's economic situation. The cost of financing is an essential factor in competitiveness, one of the most important factors. We've been watching, all this time we've watched the business be ruined, not just the citizens who are in charge, but also the businesses. Heavy interest is accounted for and businesses are not only citizens, although they don't know who's in a worse situation and we've looked at it. We said just before how it was heard that interest was lifted on interest, excellent, so really this one non-inverse but perverse category was supposed to be abolished, but how is it that no one knows who put such a category into the law and made it possible but literally a robbery of the economy literally? Those who went into the banking sector after such changes because they knew what was going to happen. Let's go back a little bit to the idea of interest and squeeze interest. What's interest? And why are we saying that? Because we're going to see that what defines the category of that law doesn't confirm. The interest is the price of using other people's money, simply the price of money. And what's a tight interest? The interest rate paid by the believer for the delay period. So by definition, a tight interest rate is the rate paid by the believer for the delay period, the debtor pays the believer for the delay period. How is it possible that the law allows when there is a delay not to pay a tight interest but to be paid regularly, but if it is larger than tense? Well, isn't that an inverse situation? It's completely inverted. So if it suits the bigger one, we'll charge the bigger one even though it's got to be a tight one. Then let's change the economic categories, then a tight interest isn't what the textbooks write about it, but we'll bring in something else. Under this bill of law and the existing law, not only in this bill, a tight interest should not exist at all because regular interest will be charged in the event that it is higher than tense. So when will the tightness of the reckoning and who will decide? So no one decides because the law says the believers will calculate a higher interest rate if it is more regular than a tight interest rate. This defines Article 29.6. "if, in the case referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 26 of the Law, the rate of agreed interest is higher than the rate of tightening interest, they run beyond and after the debtors are late." How can it be after being late for anything calculated other than a tight interest? That's not covered by these changes, it should have been covered. That's why it takes two readings and I believe that you saw this to cover it I believe it and you can still do it. I ask you, the HDZ Representatives Club has two non-conditions but suggestions, and they are reasonable, if you agree to accept such suggestions here is one thing to change, that you cannot charge a higher interest rate if there is a delay but that can be calculated only tighter in the delay period. The second part, that in paragraph 3 which you have proposed without justification, therefore there is no word of justification for paragraph 3. Which reads: "if interest is agreed but their rate is not determined, the interest rate is worth half the legal tightening interest rate." This changes the existing state that says that it is - and there is not a single word to why it is changing. If something changes, then there's a need to explain why it's changing. The HDZ Club proposes to be deleted and we have submitted the amendment, to delete this proposal of the new paragraph 3 of Article 2 of the bill and to change the existing one that regulates the tights and in which case the HDZ Club will support the bill proposal, although it has more shortcomings but because of the urgency and assistance of the HDZ club's debtors will be supported but we believe that these two suggestions and changes would contribute to the quality of the law and would not further endanger debtors but would further help them. But at the same time, they would really remove one inverse situation because it is not logical or normal that if it was too late not to charge a tight interest. It will be charged tightly if it is larger than contracted, but if the larger one is agreed then it will be charged contracted and not tense even though it is a tight period. We don't think that's logical and that it's not sustainable at all and that we need to change that, and hopefully, it's a rational suggestion that you'll accept it. One particular problem is minus on current accounts. What kind of credit is that? What interest is calculated on the current account's minuses? What has been calculated so far and what will happen when this bill comes in? You know, there's been a lot of heavy legal interest going on up until now. How is it possible that there was a tight legal interest that was 18, so 14, so 12, now it's going to be at 8.14, counting heavy legal interest without a late payment? What's the maturity time in minuses, in credits by minuses by current accounts? It's not defined. When's the delay? It's not a deal. When's the DVO? Is that the day he got the loan that he could do the same day on account of the tight interest, he's counting on him to be late as soon as he got permission to go down. Now that the Change in Consumer Loans is taking place, then the interest on consumer loans is accounted for rather than tightened. How is it possible by the same two different basis accounts? Now, according to this amendment, I'm not sure how the interest on the current account will be calculated. And why is that the most important? These are the most endangered part of Croatian society because those who are in charge of minuses in current accounts for the most necessary needs were in charge of food, clothing, payment of directors, municipal fees, electricity and more. And do you know how many in the total, colleague Lesar, interest incomes you said in the last year were the interest incomes of the banking sector, how much interest on the total interest incomes on the basis of the current accounts? 30%. There is no country in the world that has so much interest per minus in current accounts in total interest incomes as in Croatia. That's why it's very important to define this exact period, because of this importance. Imagine 30% of all interest income on interest incomes from minus current accounts, and that's the worst part and there's the biggest room for manipulation. Let's stop the room for manipulation and it can only be a legal framework. Mr. Ministers, we appeal that these two HDZ suggestions, one in the form of a proposal and the other in the form of amendments, will support the HDZ Club and then we have time to correct, not to amend three laws simultaneously, not to adopt them in an urgent manner but to seek one rational, long-term, sustainable solution on the issue covered by the interest area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113363	Ingrid. We need ministers to finish the replicas, then. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113364	I'm glad my colleague that you will support the law even though you have said that he has his shortcomings, but the greatest disadvantage is that this law has never been done before. In fact, it's been a difficult situation all this time. You say the law is passed to make it better in two readings. But there's been a lot of silence when citizens need to be burdened and when laws, such laws, that kind of law goes into one reading, then they're passed without excess why. I think this law should have been passed as soon as possible and there's no reason for two readings. You're about to dissipate the citizens. You say the laws are made under pressure. But this is exactly the government that wants to relieve the citizens of this pressure that pressured the law not to pass but failed. Because... The cryin' hasn't been heard before from a dime of money, this government's changing it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You say who these are, for all of what you've been saying and for this second part, which may not belong to this very part of the law because I fully agree with your debate. But you're asking the question who are these people? So do you know that we, here I personally suggested that in 2003 we abolish the fiduciary. No one wrote or dared to say anything because it was a just act, to abolish fiduciary. But in 2004, here's the fiduciary. And from what I hear, the government is watching the minister himself, if not completely abolish it but fully relativize that institute because the mortgage is quite enough. That's what you're not a colleague about, you're surprised who you are, that's what you are, those were your party's members in 2004 shamelessly introduced fiduciaries and many people failed because of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113365	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113366	Thank you very much. Comrade Anticevic, my question was rhetorical, you know why? Because that's how much I said I was inverse interest on interest, even perversely as I said I wish that the one whose idea had come to mind would never again be able to make proposals or influence the adoption of laws. That's why I said it. So I'd like to know who they are if they're no longer in a position to influence law-making. As far as I am concerned that I will support the bill and the HDZ Club will support it, it is conditioned to me by the minister's reaction that it is acceptable to delete the article proposed in paragraph 3 and that it cannot be changed in addition to the Government's amendment that regular interest can not be calculated on a late period but only tightened interest, and then there will be no room for manipulation for nothing, because we will have for the same period of time that the account is tightened, and in the other same time for the late period that regular interest is calculated which is not good. As far as this law was concerned, it was not necessary to bring colleagues Anticevic. All it took was to reduce the rate, econsontial rate of the CNB, and solve the problem. Instead of 7% having an escort rate of 2% or 3%, we'd have a 5% reduction in tight interest rates and solve the problem the simplest way. It's not the three laws that change, it's just changing. The Parliament doesn't have to decide at all. Thus, the law was not necessary, and to solve the problem more easily, but apparently someone does not want to, someone thinks it is perfect and that there are no problems in that one institution, so let’s keep such an opinion for a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113367	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113368	Thank you. When you look at the interest rates on deposits seen in the Republic of Croatia, they move practically from 0 to 1.2% on top of the head 2.5% and I think we are more or less within the framework of all European averages. So when it comes to the interest rate that goes in favour of those who save and deposit that money in banks, and then when it comes to these interest rates on consumer loans, on housing loans or interest rates for tight interest rates, we're here with practically the highest rates in Europe and here we kind of jump out and bounce away from those usual numbers. In fact, it speaks and I would agree with you that there is certainly a great role there and this CNB unfortunate, which you often mention, which we all often mention as one institution that has not taken over enough responsibility for its role as central monetary authority and monetary policy regulator in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, it is indeed a fact that, in some way, through these laws, colleagues from the SDP can excavate, they have the right to their own, I would say, 5 minutes of fame because they are doing what could have been done in the end, exactly and at the end of 2011, but also at the end of 2007 and at the end of 2003 and in the end of '99. so it did not seem that what was really just a reflection and indicator of the dramatically poor Croatian governments who were not ready to do even those small steps in protecting Croatian national interests precisely refer to those who ruled Croatian banks in the very strange privatisation of the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113369	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113370	Comrade Djurović, you said that interest on a vista is quite the same as in the countries of the European Union, that is, in some ways, but if we observe the fate of the means by sighting in Croatia and the means by sighting in Austria or Germany or in some orderly other country, then in Croatia the fate of such funds is worse, and why? Because the assets and the vistas eat the fees of a variety of accounts, and that's not the case abroad. A pensioner when he puts 1,000 kunas on funds and saves for something, he won't have a dime in his account after 3-4 years, he'll eat all his fees. And that fee was allowed by the CNB. 225 different types of bank charges account for total in the Croatian banking sector. It doesn't exist anywhere. And now a new phase has started, one of Croatia's largest banks is preparing a new set of fees to replace the interest profit drop, to make up for profits by introducing new fees. That's what there's even about to elaborate on how they're getting ready. People go to seminars on how to organize it now and cheat the people again, to increase their profits with new fees. As said in the CNB, they are not responsible for anything, they have been legally amended in 2000 and some years that they are not responsible for the economic situation or for economic growth or for employment, they are not responding for anything. They are who in the ceremony lodge of Wimbledon, watch what happens down there and comment on what happens there, how Federerer or Djokovic or Čilić plays ours, but they don't care what happens down there, so they don't care what happens in Croatia at all. Besides, we heard the governor, I said we're not interested in citizens, we're interested in what the international institutions think of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113371	Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113372	Dear fellow Maric, let me say inconsistencies in my view because on the one hand you say that the law should never have been passed, on the other hand, that you will support it on one condition, etc. So it all comes down to you being in the depths of your soul knowing that this bill is good but you're not able to admit it and you don't want to admit it, I understand it. But I can also say that, in the end, you yourself said that with one repair, you would most likely support it. You said this law was passed under public pressure. Well, I don't know if there's been any public pressure or anyone I've seen with banners or here in Mark's square or anywhere to protest. But it is in the public interest if you want, is in the interest of citizens and is in the interest of the Croatian economy, it is, but the difference between whether something is in the interest of citizens and the public and the economy or whether it is under their pressure. There was no pressure here, simply the government assessed, felt that it was necessary to do so, that it was a just solution and that it would take effect on those who are weaker in this case, and not weaker now than in the weaker years. You speak as if you came to Croatia yesterday and you were never in HDZ. Why am I saying that? Well, because this problem isn't since yesterday, nor has this government created it. Such high interest rates, such high interest rates have been present for years, constantly if I can say so since Croatia exists. You didn't see it, you didn't solve it, and about those years your HDZ party was at least two decades in power, almost two decades. So that's why I'm saying that you're acting like you haven't lived here or you haven't been to HDZ, because these problems have existed, this kind of tight interest even bigger than it has always been today, but unfortunately you haven't solved it, solved it, and you haven't realized it. This government, therefore, dealt with it, also resolved regular interest rates in Swiss people, took courses, etc. She's trying to solve problems she hasn't created, which she's found, and I'm glad you're probably going to support in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113373	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113374	You say I'm inconsistencies. I haven't heard a single replica in a long time. I'm sorry for my attitude. When you don't know about being a thing to say, what the bill is, then you keep talking about HDZ and SDP. I wasn't talking about HDZ, I wasn't talking about SDP, I was talking about the law and the problem that exists. That the law was not to be passed, that someone else was doing his job best to confirm that you were following the minister. He approved when I said that he had just changed his econtamination rate so that he wouldn't need this law that the minister nodded and approved it. You followed that, but you didn't follow it because you're not interested in the essence, you're interested in politicizing. And I don't know where I want to always say the same thing. You say I don't know how you know what I was thinking. But I can help you. You can always know what I mean, because I always say what I mean. But I really don't know what you think after this replica of yours. We will accept the bill if the minister and the government accept our suggestions, one amendment and one proposal to amend the law because it seems to be a rational proposal that will help resolve the problem, which will not lead to this change, this amendment not to bring one group of people into an unspeakable position because of the amendments to the law, and this would be if paragraph 3 of the bill, article of the second proposal of the law, is not deleted. If that item is deleted, then a million citizens directly or indirectly linked to the fate of this bill will be protected. And that is why we will pass the law because of these millions of people who would be more protected, who will not be threatened if such a bill is passed that makes the existing legislation worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113375	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113376	Dear Maric, there is talk here today about everything and yet one real thing wants to move into political waters. I think it's very important to say what makes it an interest rate, let's say by which state you're in charge of? It's a eurybor plus that risk coefficient. Now that we look at today's risk coefficient for the Republic of Croatia and what was 7, 8 years ago when the European crisis broke down. Practically identical, maybe a difference of 0.3, 0.4. It is for Croatia 2.75 to 3.25 today. However, why Croatia today has relatively low interest rates due to the euribor. Euribor's down by a few percentage points. So that's the one thing I wanted to say. Another thing, unfortunately, people when they're unable to get credit and he's necessary to resort to some things that someone's offering them won't be, and then later when they do, it's devastating. And that's unfortunately, the French also happened, and these Austrian cooperatives happened, and I'm not talking about these tight interest rates on the current account. However, it is very interesting that, at a time when interest rates are reduced and funds per hand deposits are practically 50% from 4 to 2%, it is very interesting that the same percentage did not reduce interest rates for loans to both citizens and businesses. But when we talk about tight interest, then let's look at the efficiency of the entire system of state administration, and above all, there's the judiciary. Because if the verdicts protect the believers, then they don't protect themselves in any way. However, what is most devastating, and no one has talked about them today, and these are guarantees that very often repay loans from some of the unfair ones that were guaranteed by them, and they certainly have assets with which the bank could charge the loan war on the basis of court rulings.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113377	You need to pick up the replica. Here you go. Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113378	Thank you very much. I was right at the start of the elevator. Comrade Shuker, you have rightly noticed the case of the Swiss franc and the passive interest rate. This is something that we often said was the main cause of high interest rates in Croatia. And when it happened that passive interest rates were halved, the interest rates on deposits did not have to be halved by interest rates on loans, although it was visible from interest expenditure to spend half the interest rates on previous periods, and interest revenues were retained. How is it possible that the interest income and the credit activity are reduced? Only in one year, 15 billion kuna is reduced credit activity. So the total credit activity was higher by interest revenues because one-sided banks, banks unilaterally changed interest rates not only for citizens, but also for businesses, for economic operators. When you're talking about the Swiss franc case, it's worth mentioning really that it's not about a credit relationship, but it's really about speculation, and here's an example of why it's speculation. As far as possible, you were talking about credit risk as well. How is it possible that someone who is interested in a loan to him in the bank says that he is not creditworthy for credit in kunas, that he is not creditworthy for euro-related loans, but that he is credit-worthy for kuna loans related to the Swiss franc. Based on what and who decided this credit ability? And that was no exception, it was a rule for clients that they weren't creditworthy in kunas to raise credit but were credit-worthy to raise credit in kunas related to the Swiss franc. What is speculation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113379	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113380	My colleague Maric and you wondered at what interest rate banks will calculate minuses by current accounts? It is also my dilemma all the time because it is about, if I have taken a quick look at the data now, the net interest income of banks in Croatia based on the minus according to current accounts of 3.5 billion kuna, net. That means the total interest is raised on that basis somewhere around 6 billion. So these are the people who can only survive from the 1st to the 1st of the month. However I read the proposed amendments to the existing provisions of the law, there is a great danger that banks will charge interest rates that will be significantly higher than the law of the prescribed tight interest rate. And if we don't answer that question among ourselves and we don't clean up or intervene in the provisions that should remain bitter to adopt a law that we're not sure what the consequences will be. And I see now your amendment that you've given to that unfortunate solution where for a large part of the credit debt would come when no interest rates are agreed to increase those interest rates from 3 to 4 or even 30%. But interestingly, the amendments we're getting, mine's marked number two, your number three, and number one, we didn't get. So now we're waiting for who handed it over to Amendment No. One that hasn't been divided into benches yet. There's something cooking somewhere, so if anyone knows, I'd like to hear about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113381	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113382	Thank you very much. Let's accept it if I don't have anything against it, we'll immediately withdraw the amendments if we have to, because our aim is to make the law as high as possible, and not whose amendment will be accepted. But if this is the kind of pressure that's worked we are, I'm satisfied, and I hope you are, too. But I deliberately said that current account minuses are the biggest problem and undefined area. Where are the contracts, where are the amounts, where's the price? The most important elements of the contract are not contained in this so-called ‘. a credit relationship. How much credit is granted when it is withdrawn, when it is due, at what rate? And then, if the consumer loans are also agreed, the interest will be 8.14 tight, but they can account even bigger if it's agreed bigger than that tighter. Which cannot be allowed for such a legal basis that when delays occur, heavy legal interest and nothing else must be accounted for. And not for anyone to use if we're going to, so they're going to calculate, maybe charge you a tight interest, and maybe, on the same basis, they'll charge the other one a bigger one, so they'll be able to, there's room for manipulation. It is his free will whether he chooses to use this legal provision to account for a greater one, and he doesn't have to. They'll throw one of the businessmen into bankruptcy, encourage another. One citizen will also put himself in an awkward situation, and the other will benefit. The law must not have such opportunities, I speak plainly, manipulatively. If it's a tight interest then for a late period and the debtor has to pay a legally tight interest, not a regular one if it's bigger than a tight one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113383	And now the word has Minister Orsat Milenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113384	Thank you very much, just for a little while. So I thank you for these suggestions. What I'd like to ask is one amendment, and we've got these two amendments being spoken of and it's completely irrelevant which one is, we'll consider them of course. But this second proposal also to be put in the form of amendments so that we can be delivered if possible as soon as possible so that we can simply be precise. Because you spoke very broadly of it. Put it in the amendment and here's what I can tell you that as a government, we will consider it and of course if it achieves the goal you're talking about. Here, but please put it in the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113385	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers with assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Today's debate in which the HNS Club will also support amendments and amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations can say on behalf of the HNS Club that it has shown that with one reading or emergency procedure it can be obtained and agreed, it can also receive proposals for certain supplements and that, without discussing ideological problems, we are discussing the well-being of citizens and that this move by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this case of the Ministry of Justice but, of course, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, a good bill has given what is crucial to stick to those principles to be clear, uniform and predictable. Of course, all or supplement or debates, amendments, do not reduce clarity, unity and predictability, they only complement and improve in the interest most colleagues and colleagues discussed, which is for the benefit of citizens. Because the reduction of the tight interest rate to 8.14, i.e. for entrepreneurs and compared to the public sector to 10.14 is a reduction of approximately 30% of the tight interest. And it is something that is not the first time that this government has already been said, but I also have to react to the Consumer Credit and Obligation Act, and the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement continuously reducing and facilitating citizens, which is essential to burdens and obligations, but obligations that we must always be clear, citizens and entrepreneurs when they make certain commitments under the Law on Mandatory Relations are mandatory and respected. Both consciousness and understanding of what citizens take as a commitment and entrepreneurs with all conditions and that the laws are clear and uniform and predictable and it is also extremely important and what this government has also worked on in terms of consumer protection and, in particular, the Consumer Credit Act where, not only because of European directives, but because of our own and citizens' interests clearly identify and define how citizens take, we are particularly sensitive to citizens because of the problems that citizens today have in their obligations due to performance, they must be reported, informed, not to be led astray, which is clearly 2000 years old. When, let me say it again, but it must be clear to you when the government didn't then, the government reacted in the way it was meant to protect citizens and information. Which is one of the key relationships. So this law, which enters into two laws but unequivocally defines how interest must be and can be calculated, what will be these tight interest rates to reduce them in order to be of course lower in any future relationship of mandatory interest. And, of course, those contracts in which it is precisely defined under the Law on Mandatory Relations to tighten interest, that those at this point, or from the entry into force of this law, are supposed to be from the 1st Kolovos to reduce the burden on citizens and entrepreneurs. Of course, this does not solve citizens' debt problems, that this does not solve the debt problems of entrepreneurs it only reduces and reduces the burdens that can arise because of the inability to pay because what has already been said is that the tightening interest is in fact interest at the end of the maturity of the outstanding obligation, so as soon as someone does not settle their obligation there are clearly certain problems. Which means that as long as we're all here, we're willing and eager to keep that interest low and I believe that it will be special for the citizens of 8.14%. As soon as it is applied there is obviously a problem, a problem in which someone cannot repay their obligations and then there are all those other measures that seem to be taking place today, working from those social to in terms of particular growth of the economy and employment, which is the key in fact that this interest is not being applied, is something that is crucial that this law has as little use in this segment as possible in which these changes are made and complemented. So, on behalf of the HNS Club, we imitate the adoption of a new law and these proposals that we have heard from clubs and certain amendments in which it really makes sense to tighten interest to be the one that is sanctioned and not the one that is agreed on, we suggest that you reconsider these proposals, not just for the sake of whether or not there will be support, but also for the sake of well-being but also for the unequivocality of the law and the correctness of the very definition of legal tight interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113387	On behalf of SDP representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113388	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministers for Deputy, Honorable colleagues and colleagues, therefore the proposed amendments to the provisions concerning the setting of interest rates in the Law on Mandatory Relations and the Timely Law on Financial Business and Pre-bank settlement and the Consumer Credit Act are found, but they are of little importance. In the first instance, they represent harmonisation with the EU acquis and were necessary from that perspective. And it is therefore partly and justifiable why it is being followed by an emergency procedure. But they also bring a substantial change, and that is, what is already said, a reduction in the rate of legal tight interest. As already stated here, the proposed changes in the rate of these rates for relations between entrepreneurs and interest granted to public rights persons, as well as for interest and business relations, are reduced from current highs, I would say 15% to 10.14%, and for business transactions between entrepreneurs and public rights persons on whom the public right person owes the current 12.14% obligation also to 10.14%. The other relations that are determined by the Law on Mandatory Rate Relations are reduced from 12% to 8.14%. So, to simplify, interest rates when we talk about interest rates for citizens fall by 4 percentage points, almost 4 percentage points, or if we're talking about then in... 32% reduction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tight interest rates in Croatia were among the highest in the EU and have been the generator of a major increase in debt and the economy and citizens so far. In doing so, they did not represent a source of large profits, I would say, only for banks, so that perhaps the first could be concluded already for various other legal persons who came to the position of creditors. Such high rates of tight interest would have crossed me at the SDP club, their economic purpose of ensuring that a certain debt would be returned within the maturity period, but in practice they had made it possible for certain groups of creditors to make just great, extra profits. They are so highly defined and have also been an additional weight to business entities who may have been forced to pay heavy interest due to their current business difficulties and would say they could be compared to the stone around the man who fell into the river and trying to get out dry. They also represented a factor in the additional poverty of low-income citizens, i.e. those resulting from the financial crisis over the past years, have fallen in income. Such citizens, having been given a certain purpose, would have said in their own terms debt slavery because they were unable to pay even the amount of such high-priced interest. This led to absurd situations that, after years and years of return, citizens would be more than the amount of the principal and more than the amount for which they were assigned. Thus, the total amount of outstanding claims from year to year was also increasing. We have recorded an increase in indifference, and this has significantly burdened the economy as a whole. The government has taken a number of measures aimed at reducing indifference. Thus, by means of a regulation on the criteria, criteria and procedure for the postponement of the payment of the debt, and the sale, write-off or partial write-off of the claim in 2013, the position of debtors who had debts to public rights persons and public undertakings is significantly facilitated. To remind you, anyone in possession of such a debt may write off the amount of tight interest, and especially the socially endangered persons under certain conditions may request the write-off of the entire debt. This may not even be sufficiently familiar with this measure, which has shown tremendously good results in facilitating the position of those who are over-indebted, whose high tight interest rates have made business and life extremely easy. Furthermore, an agreement on the forgiveness of debts to the poorest citizens who owe a cumulatively 35,000 kuna, who have neither money nor property to repay it. The procedure also referred to a proposal for a consumer bankruptcy law where a second reading is expected that will also help to address the liquidity and facilitate the situation of citizens who have entered a debt crisis or a kind of debt slavery. And I would remind you that the Act on Pre-demand settlement and financial transactions have been achieved regardless of certain... significant results have been achieved in reducing liquidity. These proposed amendments to the Mandatory Relations Act are a step in the SDP club to further reduce liquidity and further facilitate the position of the economy and citizens. Therefore, the SDP club will support these amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113389	We're moving on to an individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113390	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear assistants, colleagues and colleagues. This bill of law, which has its economic repercussions, should also be seen in the light of the new principles of ethics and justice. This is exactly the kind of law. Such a bill that reduces the strained interest between natural persons so that they show their wisdom, shows justice, shows that the bill can be proposed if they want to and if you are guided by such principles and be so. The government has also shown that the ruling majority has nothing against capital, that it is for the co-operation of capital and those who do not have capital, but that in the conflict of capital and those without capital are unequivocally and firmly standing on their side, and this is also shown by this bill. It's perfectly normal for banks in their business to have their own interest, that's their price, but they have to be reasonable, proportionate, moderate. With this bill of law, I will repeat, the government has heard the ruling voice of this silent voice that has long not been heard from the disproportionate and disproportionate noise of the money's bulge. The government has heard and suggested it. It's a small law, but it'll have big and good consequences. I ask you once again to seriously consider abolishing the fiduciary, it is not necessary at all or that it is to the ultimate measures... because it is not fair that if a man is owed and the minimum amount of money is left without real estate. It's not fair, it doesn't make any sense besides mortgage insurance claims. The restriction may also need to be considered, therefore, to the greater extent that the level of contractual interest is limited. Because we need to know everyone who's looking for loans, who's talking to banking financial institutions, what kind of a difficult situation they're in. To avoid taking advantage of the borrower’s difficult economic situation so that they can impose their own conditions on him for their own benefit and for their own benefit. It is not unusual, therefore, for economists to find such behaviour illegal and unfair among themselves. I say and this is seen from our behavior from all the laws we've come up with on this area, within this area, we're not against banks, against interest, against profits, but all the way to that border while they serve community, solidarity, but we're against inhuman and immoral. That's what we're gonna say openly no matter who it bothers. We will not allow and this is what the Government shows by this proposal for a law of economic Makiavelism, which believes that the objective justifies every means. So those who seek credit are people who are particularly sensitive people who are in need, who need that money. We are not also against the believers, nor do we think that the believers should be the last hole in the playing, however, this is also for the benefit of the believers. Because how much banks and what is ultimately the main challenger of the crisis is because they didn't care to charge because they knew that at the end of the day the state would take care of it and they weren't ruined, even though they were rich in the crisis. The concern and mess that he has ruled so far, so it's hard at all to understand and imagine and that a much better economic situation is, let alone that this has been tolerated and introduced by the institutes just a few years ago, now he's already close and 10 years old when the crisis has already been at the door. So against and this law will contribute to the opposition to financial imperialism. We point out, therefore, other than these economic criteria that other colleagues have spoken of, I am particularly interested in this moral and ethical criterion because it is not true that the laws cannot be fair. If they are just promoters, if they are just lawmakers, then the laws are fair. And the immoral and dishonest laws were not passed in themselves; they were brought by such men. That is why, by respecting and not only your courage, I do not think that it is questionable, because bankers if they are afraid of this bill of yours, if they threaten to sue their own country to the European Commission, wish them a happy path, but that means that these banks are and that their monetary and financial situation is much sicker than they want to admit themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113391	Thank you. We have a replica. Dear Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113392	My colleagues, you mentioned, if I'm not mistaken, you used a syntagma of financial imperialism, so terror of financial capital, etc. If this law and I'm convinced it will reduce the possibilities of falling part of our fellow citizens into debt slavery, then it certainly needs to be supported. Here I am from Split, and I would like to note that Emperor Diocletian, the great Roman emperor, was one of the last great Roman emperors instituting reforms to prevent at that time the debt of slavery he considered immoral. Since you mentioned ethics and morals, I am deeply convinced that this law contributes precisely to the emphasis of such categories that we very much need in this... The world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113393	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113394	By accepting what you said, you may need to be complemented by yourself and perhaps yourself, which I have cited in my debate, using the answer to your replica, is exactly the social economy. It's the economy our citizens want, it's the economy that honest entrepreneurs and businessmen want. So greed is not something that is meant to be. And the pursuit of profit-making, no matter how it applies to citizens. They say capital has its own logic. No, that's the logic their owners have. The capital itself has nothing, he's neutral. The question is just how many laws will we allow such greed, make it possible for citizens to be wasted. And just this bill of law is on that trail to stop the kind of thing that was, I'd say here for decades. So we need a social economy. And they're not rare or ethical banks, they do business in Germany, in the Netherlands, where they were founded by citizens' associations. So with this bill of law, a group of citizens who have capital who want to do business on these grounds might be encouraged.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113395	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I thank Minister Orsat Milenić and everyone who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113396	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 853 The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting on the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote 82 votes for, no abstentions, 15 against us agreeing to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Government's representative, Honored Sandra Artuković Kunst, Deputy Minister of Justice to explain Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113397	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and respected MPs. The proposed amendments concerning the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, which is proposed to amend Article 6 of Article 29 in such a way as to provide that, if the rate of contractual interest is higher than the rate of the tight interest, they cannot go beyond the debtor's delay. In order to clarify the provision, and in order not to raise doubts in the application of the amendment to the Government, it is proposed to delete the reference to Article 26(2) because it prescribes a rate of contractual interest between traders and traders and public rights persons, and that the erasure becomes unequivocal that each debtor, whether or not the trader or not after the delay, pays interest at the rate of the tightening interest, and not at the rate of the contractual interest if that rate is higher than the tightening interest rate. The proposed amendment is necessary because, contrary to Article 29(6) of the text, as proposed by the HDZ Representatives Club, it could be interpreted as referring only to persons referred to in Article 26(2), thus to traders and public rights persons, and not to all debtors, and the aim was to refer to all debtors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113398	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 99 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and a percentage of the final bill. Amendment number 2 is also the government of the Republic of Croatia's respected deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113399	Thank you very much. So it's a transitional provision that we're adding a new article to. According to the proposed law, the CNB is obliged to publish an average interest rate on the credit position granted for a period of more than one year, not to financial corporations calculated for the reference period preceding the current half-year or average weighted interest rates on the credit situation referred to in Articles 11b and 11c of the Consumer Credit Act. Let me tell you what these loans are because it's very important and that's what this is about. So residential and consumer loans with an agreed variable interest rate in kunas without a currency clause in euro or in kunas with a currency clause in euro or in Swiss francs with a currency clause in Swiss francs. In order to enable the application of this 1st Kolovoz law, and we will propose by the next amendment 3 that 1st Kolovoz be applied because we are no longer in time for this to be possible since 1st July, the proposed law should be complemented by a provision which obliges the CNB to publish these interest rates 1st August 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113400	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Sign up for a hearing. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Dear Deputy Minister, allow him to address the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113401	So, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, this is on the trail of the debate held in this House of Commons, but in the end, the deputy lady said as of 1 August 2015. However, given that the deadlines are squeezed cannot go from 1 July of this year and since the financial reports are related to 6 months I am interested in what is from 2016 on then on, will this remain 1. 1st and 1st. 7th or still remains August. So that's what's left unsaid in your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113402	Thank you very much. Are there any more interested in the debate? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. ... No, we have completed the presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And did you listen? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can, come on, say it, go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113403	Thank you very much. To clarify, therefore, this is an added provision for this transitional period where we failed to catch the date of July 1st. And for the next commitment of the National Bank remains for the mid-term, so July, January.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113404	But you could hear it. It already stands. Yeah, okay, thank you very much, we don't want to talk about it. Thank you very much. We've closed the debate. Please vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia No. 2. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 97 votes for, nothing against, no abstentions have been accepted by Amendment No. 2. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has become an integral part of the final bill. I ask the Deputy Minister of Justice to explain Amendment No. 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113405	Thank you very much. Well, that's what we've already said, so this amendment allows for the entry into force, i.e. the delay of entry until 1 August 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113406	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 97 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the accepted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia no. 3. It has become an integral part of the final draft law. It's an amendment to the Justice Committee. Amendment No. 1. The Board of Justice shall, in accordance with Article 3 of the esteemed Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113407	The government accepts the amendment of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113408	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. We're going to the amendment of Honorable Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113409	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113410	He became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. And the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club, it's the same as the already accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113411	The government accepts the amendment in the text as accepted by the amendment of the respected representative Dragutin Lesar. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113412	Do you agree? Thank you very much. [[Intruder: We agree.]] So he became an integral part of the final bill. An amendment to the honourable MPs of Mirale Holly. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113413	The government accepts the amendment in the amended text as accepted by the distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113414	Thank you very much. Consuming does she agree with respect? It's okay. [[Intruder: Agree.]] Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113415	The amendment shall be adopted in a non-technically corrected text which reads: Article 3(1) adds a new paragraph 2 which reads: In paragraph 6: "they shall run even after the debtor's delay" shall be replaced by the words "they cannot run after the debtor's delay".
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113416	Thank you very much. The applicant's representative, yes, respects, agrees. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Thank you very much, dear Deputy Minister. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 97 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the passed Law P.Z. No. 853 in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113417	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Security Act in the field of coastal research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 849; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Reports you've received. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Economy Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The relevant legal framework governing the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia thus constitutes the Law on Mining, the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons and sublegal regulations adopted in accordance with the provisions of the Mining Act, including the Regulation on essential technical requirements for safety and protection in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons from the Croatian sub-seas adopted in 2010. The relevant legal framework governing the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia is in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. In the area of the Adriatic Sea between 1961 and 2015, 137 rigs were made. The final depths of the wells ranged up to 6725 meters, and the depth of the sea at locations where these wells were carried out ranged from 33 meters to 450 metres. In the area of the Epicontinental Belt of the Republic of Croatia there are three hydrocarbon exploitation areas, i.e. Isabella, North Adriatic and Marica, which have been exploiting natural gas and transporting it to the mainland for many years. During these years, there has been no major accident caused by the implementation of offshore works, meaning the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. In addition to the Law on Mining and the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, which regulates the implementation of coastal works on the Adriatic, it is important to specify the rules of jurisdiction of other state bodies closely related to the implementation of Adriatic coastal works as the Environmental Protection Act, the Maritime Code, or the plan for interventions in sudden pollution adopted in 2008, which determines the conduct in the event of sudden sea pollution, as well as the major accidents resulting from the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. The Regulation on essential technical requirements, safety and protection in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons from the Croatian sub-seas is strictly prohibited from the disposal and release of solid waste, motor oils, liquid hydrocarbons, toxic and harmful substances, regular control of drilling and exploitation plants, etc. As regards the drilling process itself and possible incident situations, the Regulation defines the types and places of the pre-emptor setting, their certificates, and then the valve blockage, or the determination of the primary and secondary retention. Also, all equipment used in the manufacture of a well must be attested and ensure maximum safety during drilling. The regulation itself does not leave almost any room for possible improvisation during the implementation of offshore works, and the law will only sharpen that. The European Commission has launched a review of coastal works and adopted a Directive in 2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council adopted on 12 June 2013 the consent of coastal oil and gas activities and amending Directive 2035 of 2004 and the implementation of a Commission Regulation of 2014 on the establishment of a common form by which operators and owners of offshore oil and gas facilities exchange information on the indicators of major hazards and a common pattern by which Member States carry out information on major hazard indicators. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has been taking an intensive part in the work of the European Union Working Group on Security in the Coastal Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons since its establishment in early 2014, whose establishment was regulated by the directive itself and has participated in the development of the regulation itself as part of the same working group. In addition to the implementation of the Regulation, the working group shall share experience together and shall ensure that it is implemented in the legislation of each Member State in accordance with the deadlines of the Directive. It is important to note that this Directive does not, however, prescribe administrative procedures for public competition, exits... for coastal works, but is prescribed by the directive in the conditions for granting and applying authorisation for the search, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons that has been fully implemented in our legislation when adopting two essential laws. It's the Law on hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, as well as the Mining Act itself. The law clearly determines and prescribes additional surveillance over all safety measures that will have to be implemented in the implementation of the coastal work and coordination will be required to provide regular reports to the European Commission. The law stipulates that the deadline for adjustment for existing coastal facilities is 19 July 2018, while all new coastal operations must be harmonised by 19 July 2016. A broad range of competent state authorities, sectoral associations, a public debate with the interested public has been held and the law is presented and discussed with the social partners. Finally, the implementation of the provisions of this law and other regulations reduces the risk of carrying out coastal work on the Adriatic, i.e. reducing the risk of carrying out coastal work to an acceptable level. In accordance with the guidelines set out in Directive 013/30, as prescribed and transposed by this law, additional supervision of all the ecological measures to be implemented shall be imposed. We will, however, be required to regularly submit this report to the European Commission. The measures we are now setting to protect not only the Adriatic from potential accidents when carrying out offshore work, but we are raising the entire system of environmental security. New activities will not be able to begin until adequate resources are established which will be able to regulate at the moment in the event of any accident, and in accordance with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113419	Thank you. We have one replica, dear Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113420	Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister. In the proposal for a law, no word has been explained, and in your introduction, you have left out in full the reasons for the reasons for the content of Article 40, which delays the application of this law to existing facilities on 19 July 2018 and quotes for planned facilities on 19 July 2016. As far as I'm aware, Croatia is ahead of the agreement of research operations on the Adriatic by international competition. The component of this competition was the proposal for a contract which the concessionary must also comply with this application provision only since 19 July 2016 for new facilities, you are in fact creating a prerequisite that they are not covered by the protection mechanisms of this law. This means that this law, as an obvious and strategic environmental impact study, is written in writing with those who have received a job in competition and that you are still allowing the provisions of the protection of the Adriatic from this law to be not an integral part of the contract that Croatia will sign with them because you have delayed the application of this law to planned facilities whatever that means. I ask you and I call upon you to explain the reasons for this ludicrous provision in Article 40 and what legal consequences in terms of environmental protection, and from the title of the contracts under the international competition this provision of the law can make. Why are you doing this? If you have not already written in the documents you have given to the Parliament, please explain that in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113421	Replication response, Deputy Minister Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113422	Thank you very much. So it is also clear in my introduction that the law prescribed a deadline for adjustment for existing coastal facilities is 19 July 2018 in accordance with the EU Directive. And the other important thing that you mentioned here is not going to be in the plans that gave shorter, or three years ago, or four years ago, exploiting a well of unexploited, exploiting. ... He's acting like he's not. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113423	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, the esteemed Branko Bačić on behalf of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. At the 70th session held on 18 June, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament held a proposal for a safety law on the coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons with the final proposal for a law delivered by the Government of the Croatian Parliament on 3 June 2015, with a proposal that, in accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. In its opening statement, the Assistant Minister of Economy pointed out that the proposed law transposes the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the safety of offshore oil and gas activities and amending the Directive into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of this law do not apply to the prevention of major accidents during coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. As the competent authority for the implementation of the law, a co-ordination of security in coastal research and exploitation of hydrocarbons has been laid down, documents produced and delivered for the performance of offshore works, the way in which documents are produced and the content of documents delivered for the performance of offshore works, the way in which documents are produced and the content of documents submitted for the implementation of coastal works and the procedures for the approval of them by coordination, certain liability for damage, public participation and public interest in the implementation of coastal works, as well as the prescribed infringements. After the opening argument in the debate, the government's behaviour was assessed as irresponsible because it launched the first public competition procedure for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic on 2 April 2014, and then on 2 January 2015, issued 10 permits for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, and without the prior adoption of several strategic documents and of this law. It has been estimated that the previous non-compliance with the Security Act in the field of coastal research and exploitation of hydrocarbons has shown concern for the conservation of the sea and the marine environment since the major accidents caused by the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons may have devastating and irrevocable consequences on the marine and coastal environment. It was also pointed out that this whole procedure was implemented speedily, illegally and non-transparently and ultimately resulted in a failure to comply with the deadlines for signing the contract defined by the Law on Carbon Research and Exploitation. And the decision to conduct a public tender procedure for issuing licenses for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. The question, therefore, is at what stage is now the public competition process, the strategic environmental impact assessment process, and when the contract is planned because of the way the whole procedure is conducted and because of the lack of public access and representatives of the contracts concluded by the Ministry of Economy with Spectrum, doubts are expressed about the suitability of the contract and the necessity to suspend, without delay, all procedures carried out on the basis of the public competition carried out for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. The representatives of the Green Action assessed by a worrying assessment that the proposed law was sent to the emergency procedure immediately before the expiry of the deadline within which the Member State is obliged to comply with that Directive. They pointed out that the directive was adopted in June 2013 and that there was enough time for it to be transposed into national legislation. The "Green Action" estimated that the fact that this law is being discussed immediately before the deadline for harmonisation points to the conclusion that the Adriatic survey and public competition wanted to be carried out before the Directive was brought into line. In the follow-up to the debate, the position of coordination was assessed, the assessment of the composition of the co-ordination for security in the coastal research and exploitation of hydrocarbons entrusted by the proposed law to the supervisory function. Namely... not representatives of the Ministry of Mining, the Agency for the Hydrocarbon Registers of Croatian Ships, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the State Administrations responsible for the protection and rescue and the Ministry of Environmental and Nature and the Agency for Spaces at risk of explosive atmosphere, it has been pointed out that the proposed is not guaranteed the independence and objectivity of coordination since the Agency for Hydrocarbons within the coordination itself is not designed to clearly separate the monitoring, safety and environmental functions from bodies aimed at the development of the use of oil or gas resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also questionable to assess the establishment of a new body under conditions where there are state administration bodies in whose jurisdiction these issues are, for example, the Coast Guard, which can safely and quality conduct procedures in the event of sea pollution. It is noted that Article 30 of this Act and Article 39 of the Law are also applicable. Transitional and final provisions define the content and time limits for the adoption of an intervention plan in the event of sudden sea pollution. It has been warned that this violates the principle of clarity and accuracy of the law. This plan is defined by the Environmental Protection Act, and this problem should have been defined by this basic law. As regards the period of application of this law, which is prescribed by law for the planning of offshore projects, i.e. The new procedures of 19 July 2016 raised the question whether the possible drilling of probes would escape the obligations of this law through the conduct of the first public competition procedure? The Deputy Minister of Economy explained that this would not be the case since the new investigative and exploiting wells were impossible before a period of 4 years and was assessed by the members of the board by an incorrect claim. The debate pointed out the importance of being consistent... The Convention shall provide the public and the public concerned with an opportunity to participate in early and effective decisions relating to activities which may have significant environmental effects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this respect, it is noted that the provisions of Article 7(2), which require the provision of short deadlines, delegates the provisions of paragraph 1 which define that the drilling of an investigational drilling of an exploitation facility may begin after the early and effective participation of the public and the interested public has been ensured. Following the discussion, the Committee did not establish its position on support for the adoption of this law because the votes of 10 members present were divided and 5 votes against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113425	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The Honorable Branko Vuksic will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Leftists.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113426	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected deputy with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. This law is very difficult to talk about because we have already warned several times that everything regarding hydrocarbon research and exploitation is covered by a veil of secrets. It is trying to do everything to exclude the Croatian Parliament from the decision-making process and even from the process of debate, when it comes to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. This topic, we have discussed this several times here in the Croatian Parliament, deserves to discuss whether or not to explore, or drill the Adriatic, in the Adriatic. And after research, let's see if we need to investigate if a decision is to be made to investigate afterwards, according to what was found in the Adriatic whether hydrocarbons, gas or oil should be exploited. Several times in different situations, I talked about precisely why oil, gas exploitation, especially when it comes to the Adriatic, I was talking about those fields that were actively covered by a veil of secrets. Which is why the Government or one narrow group of people took the right to decide what will be done in the Adriatic, what way will be done and when will be done and that the Croatian Parliament on such an important, fatal issue for the Republic of Croatia for the future, for the future and economy, or for one large segment of the economy, and that is not the tourism debate of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the Croatian Parliament is more and more where decisions are made by raising the hands of the majority that suits what is probably most logical to the interests of the government and the interests of a group of people. All that preceded this law is questionable, in doubt, why is this law first to be passed by emergency procedure? Because it's five to twelve, because we've waited almost two years, what we could have done two years ago, we're now doing when we have to do it. Decisions have already been made to investigate the Adriatic if there is, how many hydrocarbons there are in the Adriatic, how much oil there is, how much gas there is and when we discussed it in the Law Assembly then everything was said about the way the Ministry of Economy concluded a contract with the company "Spectrum". I think that what seems today, which seems to be the whole time of this government, is not a good recommendation and that it should be suspected that not only are some stakeholders, some companies that are suitable for them but should be suspected of doing a serious job, that the safety of the Adriatic Sea will be protected, that ecology will be protected and that tourism will be in the future if it decides to exploit, or first to explore, and then to exploit the Adriatic, that tourism will be a branch that will bring big money to Croatia. This is too big and significant a question to be approached in this way. I therefore appeal that the deadlines, if it could be two years, should be held in the Croatian Assembly to discuss what we do in the Adriatic, should be accompanied by representatives of the Croatian Parliament, all of what, all the negatives that can be met in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. After this debate, and the debate should precede a study in which it will be for and against research and exploitation and then the Croatian Parliament should decide whether to approach it or not. Everything else and this bill of law and other moves made by the government we think is at the heart of security and then the future of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113427	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the respected Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113428	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you have rightly said that the law is passed in 5 to 12 and that is because its adoption stems from the obligation of the directive to be incorporated into national legislation and through its adoption on the one hand. On the other hand, it is adopted in 5 to 12 for reasons to prevent, in a certain way, all of what is stated by the HDZ Interpellation Club, which is that the presumption of a public tender for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic should be the adoption of this law. So we're discussing him today before we discuss the interpretation itself. But he was brought in today or five months ago, a year ago and it was too late. He was supposed to be brought before the government called the competition. It was only right that we had discussed this law so that the provisions of this law would be an integral part of the public competition itself, and this way when the public competition was completed, when the tender was opened, when the permits were granted on 2 January this year, then practically these provisions of the law do not even apply to permits that would allow companies to explore and exploit hydrocarbons. And in that sense, even the provision that it does not apply to selected objects that are set up until 16 July next year is unacceptable to us because it will indeed not apply to the provisions of this law to those platforms that are based on the law that the government has already signed and completed, but has not signed a contract for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113429	The replica corresponds to the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113430	Dear colleague Bacic, we agree. First the law was to be passed and then to call the competition. And then the competition would take into account this law, meaning all these security measures that are prescribed here and that have come quite well, and the law itself, he is not asked. First of all, I don't understand why some of the steps that were supposed to have been taken have skipped? Secondly, I guess the ministry gentlemen will explain to us why it isn't done, doesn't seem like a debate, or maybe in nine, ten months, I don't know how long Parliament's going to work to discuss the fate of exploring the exploitation of the Adriatic. Do they really think in the government, at the Ministry of Economy that it can be decided and should be decided and even that you should give such an opinion both to the opposition and to the representatives of the government to discuss it and to make opinions if not to decide what to do with the Adriatic. This is how it seems to me that it's unprepared, unserious, I don't even think it's here, that it's preparing the ground for some robbery, but I just think it's actually, we're an unorganized state and this is the way this law is being passed just confirms it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113431	Second replica, the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113432	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Vuksic, you said that this law was passed by emergency procedure 5 to 12, I assure you that this law was passed fat after 12 hours, that you would prefer to call it an impellacable law because this law would not have been seen if it were not for two interpretations on the Parliament's agenda. That's what we used to say when this law is being forced back into the agenda. But I also called in a replica to convince you of something else. We are discussing the law today and we have on the basis of the interpretations why this law and there is a report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the interpretations which, in its report in the first paragraph, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided all the conditions for the implementation of the legal and transparent procedure in relation to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia. Some of this isn't true. Regardless of the visibility of our government, it seems to me that it has been lying in its opinion since 30 April, given that only now in the emergency procedure is it pushing the law to prevent anything negative that has already appeared to the public and is expressed in two interpretations that we should discuss. This is a shame that the government, after being pressured by a parliamentary debate, is quick to come up with laws that it would like to cover the shortcomings of its present procedure. It's in other words the law on fingertips in jams, and I'm not sure it's just a matter of an unsettled state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113433	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113434	Dear colleague Mlakar, I agree. When this is done doubt is justified. I asked earlier why and the final proposal of the Security Act for the Coastal Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons and Interpletions two were not united. It would be even logical to discuss them the same day and if they were united, but then what you said would be more evident if the government were actually helmeting and being late. I agree, maybe five to twelve isn't a good time. Maybe it's twelve to five. I think it's actually that everything has to be said about the way the law is passed and that all those who doubt the government's intentions have an excuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113435	Next replica, dear Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113436	My replica refers to one of your sentences, and I quote you, "In the House of Decisions, decisions are made more and more by raising the hands of the majority," so I ask you to let me know if you know in which parliament in the world decisions are being made in some other way, let's say by raising the hands of the minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113437	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113438	... The lapus is first of all. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] I thought you were puppets raising your hand, that's all I could explain. Most puppets are when the government decides something you raise your hand whether it's good for Croatia or not. And I apologize, yes, wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113439	The last replica of Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague here you have outlined the situation where the big move, large for Croatia, is wrapped in secret and spent at the last minute. It's not an accident, and it's not the first time, I'm sure it's not the last time. Sometimes we don't even know what was going on behind the big moves, I don't know if we're gonna find out here. Much different is not in the white world either, the trade agreement with America is conducted in the same way, no one alive knows what it says and what it stands there, and until someone from the elite signs it won't even know it. We have never, for example, found out on what conditions, how and for what money are the sources of drinking water that are vital to Croatia and to Jaminica have come into possession of an extremely rich Croat. Was it for one kuna, perhaps, or less than that? Political elites, and by that I mean power, decide and then possibly inform the public, Parliament and everything else about what they have decided. I wonder, in fact, I ask you, I ask myself, "Where's the common sense here, and especially where's democracy?" What have we done with this democracy?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113441	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113442	Dear fellow Vuljanic, you said the political elites decide on this myself before I respond once again to the replica and colleagues of Jurjevic, you said well after political elites decide then the Parliament is informed and the Parliament is actually a puppet at the end, and someone else is making moves. Now I am not even sure that these are political elites, but that the political elites are servants of the neoliberal capital or capital of the banks, the large capital of those who have the money to draw the strings. And that it's really all of us or those who vote for it in their service. It's all about secrets. Many decisions have been made here in Parliament we warned that they are wrong for the Republic of Croatia as we have and when we discussed the past law just before, we also talked about what is wrong, which is why the right decisions are not made. But this time, if it goes into hydrocarbon exploitation, and we don't make the right decisions, it's going to be damages that are immeasurable and difficult to correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113443	On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Economy Minister Alen Leveric reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just a purely technical and time period to put on. This law is addressed to a public debate in state administration bodies on 7 February this year. Interpletions are in mid-April so it has nothing to do with the interpretation. The public debate means that... the authorities of the state administration 13.2.It is on page 14 or 15 in which you will see where the report on the consultation with the interested public is held from 13.2. to 13.3.open for all public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113445	Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113446	Well, here I am, too, very briefly. Is the ruling of the opposition or the power to decide in this law today? Who decides? Therefore, our grudges are in place. We should have discussed this before. Why not? I don't know, you probably know the authorities why.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113447	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Damir Cain reported. He's gone, the club's losing its rights. On behalf of the SDP club Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113448	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The idea of exploring and exploiting hydrocarbons in the Adriatic has divided Croatian politics, which is not difficult, and has also divided the Croatian public, which is the result of such a policy. Due to such a division where one side fully excludes any possibility of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, it is difficult to compete with rational arguments, which is why it is good for Croatia to start research first and foremost on the possibility of exploiting hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. So it turns out that every serious state, especially one that imports 80% of energy, cannot ignore its own energy resources and include the results in the development of its own economy. The danger to the environment is stressed, and it avoids saying that our neighbours on the Adriatic have already moved in the activities of exploit research. To this day, there are 133 wells and 23 gas platforms on the Adriatic, and it is a daily departure of thousands and thousands of tons of oil, which means that the risk, unfortunately, already exists and that, in fact, it is a matter of all the issues of risk management or taking risks to an acceptable level, which is exactly what we believe in the SDP. It is necessary to say that not only this legislative proposal but the entire legal framework governing the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia, so as to explore the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, which is primarily made up of the Mining Act, the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, and the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons, improves the level of protection, raises the capacity to manage risks, and no less significantly raise financial effects for the Republic of Croatia. So it is necessary to say that the previous legislation was... do research drilling not only in the sea but also on land, on islands and on islands such as Vis, Lastovo and Dugi Otok. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The current legal framework that I repeat, and this bill ensure that the research spaces move at least 10km from the coast, or 6km from the island. In addition, this legal framework identifies the limitation of investigative areas where investigations cannot take place or specific conditions are necessary for such activities to take place. All these laws governing the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia are, of course, in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. As far as the financial part is concerned, the model that was in force until 2014 since the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia has brought financial benefit of 5% while the benefit to investors was 95%. With the new legal framework, the Republic of Croatia would benefit from the exploitation of hydrocarbons at 55% while the investor's benefit would be 45%, which ultimately means if we applied it to 2013 when it went to a quantity of 1.3 million barrels of oil into the state budget, 356.7 million kuna, while this new model would make the financial benefit for the Republic of Croatia 3.8 billion kuna. With this proposal for a law, the Republic of Croatia shall make its commitment as a Member State of the European Union to adopt and publish the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with Directive 212/30 of the safety of coastal, oil and gas activities. This Directive was brought by the European Commission after a series of major accidents, especially after a major accident in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010. The event greatly raised awareness of the risks associated with coastal work and encouraged the European Commission to review its own policies to ensure the safety of these activities. The result of this review is mentioned in the Directive and the European Commission Regulation 112 of 2014 laying down a common pattern by which operators and owners of offshore, oil and gas facilities exchange information on major hazard indicators and a common pattern by which Member States publish information on major hazard indicators. The competent authority for the implementation of this law shall determine the coordination for security in the field of coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Mines, the Agency for Hydrocarbons, the Croatian Register of Ships, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, and the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection. In addition, the prescribed documents to be drawn up and delivered for the implementation of coastal works which have been approved by the coordination procedure have also been designated as liability for damage. In addition, the following Directive ensures the participation of the public and the interested public in the implementation of the coastal works and provides for infringements. The law further lays down and prescribes additional supervision of all safety measures that will have to be implemented during the implementation of the coastal works and coordination as a law enforcement body will be obliged to send reports on these activities regularly to the European Commission. The law lays down deadlines for adapting existing coastal facilities and these deadlines come from the European Commission Directive, so these are the dates mentioned here, that is, on 19 July 2018, while new operations on coastal works must be brought into line by 19 July 2016. Unfortunately, there is no law in itself that will in itself prevent the possibility of major accidents, i.e. a law that will fully guarantee the avoidance of all existing risks. Therefore, we at the SDP Club are aware that this law, like all laws that would apply to this topic, is unacceptable for those who oppose exploitation, i.e. by exploring hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. However, we also believe in the SDP club that this law and the overall legal framework relating to this issue, therefore, reduces the risks of the implementation of coastal works and thus leads them to an acceptable level and contributes to better risk management arising from these works. Therefore, the SDP club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113449	Thank you. The first replica, the respected Mirella Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113450	Dear fellow arguments you use do not respect the strategic direction in which the European Union itself is going, but the whole world too. I assume you're aware of that in the SDP club that the future in which we live is such that we won't have fossil fuels and we won't rely on fossil fuels anymore. And what does the Republic of Croatia or the Government of the Republic of Croatia do? Instead of preparing for such a future, she goes back. It comes back to old technologies because unfortunately this law that we are discussing today in the Croatian Parliament does not make an obligation for an operator to apply the highest technology, and I think it should, given that it is the Adriatic that is closed to the sea, which is extremely exposed to any possibility of the accent in a way that the consequences are devastating. You don't think about it at all. I've talked to people who work on platforms and if they assure you that the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons is harmless and safe work then they lie to you because it's an absolute lie, because people who work on platforms know that very well. And what are we doing? We call or we will work with companies that do not have the latest technology, they do not have the most sophisticated solutions related to this, although we are aware that we live in a highly sensitive eco system, and that the very proposal for a contract that you can read and analyze on the Agency’s website is not at all talked about. I asked the government to answer me who the author of that contract was, I didn't get an answer to that question. The contract is extremely damaging in economic terms for Croatia, and brings enormous risks.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113451	Time. Replication response, Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113452	Dear colleagues, we are not foolish to believe someone who tells us that the exploitation or exploration of hydrocarbons on the Adriatic is a harmless and completely secure business, we never claimed. However, even here, I repeat that the legal framework that is part of this law significantly reduces these risks and significantly increases risk management. If that's ideal, it's not. If that's the best you can do, I believe it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113453	And another replica, the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113454	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mateljan, you have made one claim that has long been made by the Ministry of Economy and the Agency for Hydrocarbons, which is not correct. It is said that even now the government could drill into the territorial sea, on beaches, on islands, and even some islands. So that claim is launched by oil and miners, arguing that there is no spatial-planning documentation in Croatia that defines what can be done. Namely, the wells that take place on the investigative and exploiting platforms are mining works. These mining works can be approached on the basis of a solution, which is based on the rightful location permit, and you know very well that the location permit can only be issued if the procedure is foreseen in the spatial plan. Therefore, it is not true that Vis or somewhere in the territorial sea can be approached by an investigative well if it is not foreseen in the spatial plan of the county and the local self-government unit. Therefore, it is something that is persistently claimed in the Croatian public that the launch of this public competition could literally be set up on the Adriatic and then brought to oil exploitation. That's not true. That is why there are laws passed by this House, and therefore there are spatial plans that have been brought by units of regional and local self-government and they have prescribed what can be done, and not as flat-rate as to how to actually drill around Croatia without any problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113455	Replication response, Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113456	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now, you say that, make me understand, but don't tell me I'm lying, but I think there are wells on both Vis Island and Lastovo Island, so these are already existing wells that are there. So the law is made possible and the operators are therefore that possibility and..., therefore already touching the wells and there are therefore for research, especially I think they exist on the Long Island. It means that such a possibility could still be realized, and now, based on this new legal framework, it can't happen, it's a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113457	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club will speak to the respected Srdjan Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113458	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your honor, deputy associate, colleague and colleague. So the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons takes a long time in Croatia, and in the Adriatic about 40 years. At this point, we have 19 gas production platforms, one compressor to which 51 explosive production drills are connected within 3 exploitation fields, from which about 1.2 billion cubic metres of gas are produced for years. The past in the Croatian part of the Adriatic has produced 128 investigative and 51 explosive production drills, and some have registered traces of oil. In the Adriatic part of Italy, 107 gas platforms are active, bringing together 600 explosive gas wells, 7 oil platforms that combine 39 oil drillings within 62 exploitation fields, and these are data from the official pages of the Italian Ministry of Economy. In Montenegro, a new regulatory framework has enabled new activities to explore and exploit hydrocarbons in the sea. The premises of the investigation are defined and distanced from the coast 2 to 3 km. Albania 0km from the coast, the activities of hydrocarbon research are being carried out intensively. A little further from us is Greece, but also at the beginning of the Adriatic Sea 3 to 5 km from the coast. We're the only country out of the above that will pass the Safety Act in coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, so now you tell us how fast or slow we are. It is also important to point out that so far, the laws so far not only of the Mining Act and the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons but also of the Environmental Protection Act, the Maritime Code or the Action Plan for the Sudden Contamination of the Sea, the Regulations and are extremely strict at this point in the investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons. So, not only on the Adriatic, but also on the mainland. This law only strengthens the use of EU directives from 2013 all of these regulations and Croatia as the only one of those countries will adopt within the deadline of the Security Act for coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, strengthen absolute protection on both the Adriatic and the mainland. It is constantly forgotten that we on land have the exploitation of hydrocarbons, research and exploitation and that and gas and oil and we are in step with both needs and time. And this is just a law that additionally sends a message to all those who will explore and exploit tomorrow, that we will respect and seek compliance with high standards of environmental protection, and we will also ask neighbouring countries to apply it because we have the right to do so for our own sake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113459	Thank you. In the name of the HDZ Club, the respected Branko Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113460	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy, with an associate, an esteemed colleague and a colleague. The Croatian Democratic Community Club cannot support the Security Act in the field of coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, and we will state the reasons why we cannot support such legislation, such as the Security Act and the Pre-European Hydrocarbon Research. First of all, something about an emergency procedure and the time limit in which the law is passed. It is true that the obligation to adopt this law under the European Directive has been established and the deadline is 19 July 2015. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament is within the time limit provided for by the directive itself in the process of passing the law itself. However, the fact is that the directive itself was adopted in June 2013 and that since then, two years have passed. And this deadline would be acceptable for us to pass this law if the government hadn't called before its adoption for a public competition for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Therefore, this adoption of the law is practically a cover of this competition and had to be passed before the public competition itself. The government cannot avoid responsibility for not having passed this law before calling for a public competition for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons because the provisions of this law would, in every sense, be an integral part of that public competition. As this law was to be passed before the public competition was called, it was even more necessary to carry out a strategic assessment of the environmental impact, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, and only then to call public competition, and not to mention other documents that were listed in the interpretation that should have been brought to the Croatian Parliament and which documents should have been assumed by the call for public competition for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Therefore, this document, a law that is important, which determines responsibility for research, the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, does not practically refer to the procedure that the government has issued and is under way. It should be said, by the way, that it would be good for the Deputy Minister to introduce us to the legality of the process that is under way, given that according to the Law on hydrocarbon research and the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, all deadlines provided for by law have passed, which have been established by the government itself. So, is the law still in place, is this competition still in effect? Will the contract with the companies that answered the contest be signed with him? It would be a good idea for Mr. Deputy Minister to introduce us. According to us at the Croatian Democratic Community club, the procedure is no longer in line with the law because all deadlines provided for by law have passed. Furthermore, when this law speaks of a legal framework for us, it is strange that for this law which represents environmental protection, protection of the marine environment, protection of the Adriatic Sea, the Law on Mining, the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, the Law on the establishment of an hydrocarbon agency, and not a single word is mentioned as the legal framework for the adoption of this law by the Environmental Protection Act, the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Maritime Code. So, all those laws that are already in Croatia prescribe the conduct and way of protecting the Adriatic and the marine environment. In the introduction of the law, it is also said that in the past 54 years, there has not been a single hoarse in the Adriatic when it comes to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. That's not true, sir, Deputy. In 1979, at the Milna 1 well in Brac, there was a serious incident that threatened the evacuation of a large part of the island of Brac. It is not true, therefore, that during the course of research, the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic has never occurred at any excess, I say, because of the sulphur leak threatened the evacuation of a large part of the island of Brac. Well, it's not true in that part either. Furthermore, I do not understand why the scope of this law does not include ZERP. You know very well that the Republic of Croatia has notified ZERP to the UN and that ZERP is the marine space of the Republic of Croatia which is established, defined and not mentioned. This law also speaks of the fact that it also refers to offshore objects located or floating in an epicontinental belt. You, Mr. Deputy Minister, know that in an epicontinental belt, objects can neither sail nor be located, but they can be found either in internal seawaters or in the territorial sea or in the ZERP, not in an epicontinental belt, because it's a continental panel located just below these spaces. Therefore, when you mention the territorial seas, when you mention internal seawaters, this law should also have been mentioned by the ZERP, which was adopted by this Croatian Parliament. And what is very important, this law determines that the space it extends to is the internal seawater and the territorial sea. It is absolutely contrary to the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. The strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which was presented by the Minister of Spatial Planning and Construction Mrs Anka Mrak Taritas, cannot be done research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Therefore, if this document, adopted by the Croatian Parliament, stipulates that no exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation can be done in the territorial sea, and I say it is in the opinion that when the competition was opened and signed by the Minister of Spatial Planning and Construction, then it is clear that this law in that part does not comply with the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which was amended by this Assembly in July 2013. Why am I saying that? I am saying this for reasons that it is not possible for the Croatian legal regulation in the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia or in the inner sea waters, which are your ports and bays, it is not possible to set up any platform or research. For this there are defined spatial plans in the Republic of Croatia both spatial plans of units of regional or regional self-government of these counties and spatial plans of cities or municipalities. It is not possible to explore mineral raw materials or even digging stone on Croatian islands or in protected coastal areas in a protected coastal area, if this is not defined by the spatial plan of the county or the municipality. The investigation of mineral raw materials is considered as mining work in the sense of the Mining Act on the basis of solutions issued by the competent ministry. And before the competent ministry issues a solution for the exploration of mineral raw materials, so does the hydrocarbons, a prerequisite is a powerful location permit issued to you by the competent authority of a large city or a unit of regional self-government. Try now anywhere in the protected coastal area must request research and exploitation of mineral raw materials of any kind, not just hydrocarbons but of any kind, so get a location permit if this area is not planned in spatial plans. Thus, absolutely in this sense, this law that allows for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in internal sea waters and the territorial sea is opposed to the Strategy for Spatial Arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which was also shown by the Minister of State. Furthermore, we at the HDZ Club argue that, in addition to the numerous coordinations that are currently in place, the basis of the Environmental Protection Act, the basis of the Maritime Code, the basis of the Coast Guard Act in the Republic of Croatia, exist and whose task is to worry about the protection of the Adriatic Sea, did not need to form a new co-ordination for security in coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. So there are coordinations and there are state bodies in the Republic of Croatia that care and care about protecting the Adriatic. Now another body is formed, which is the coordination of 15 different ministries and which we do not think our body can care for in quality and well for the protection of the Adriatic Sea. Namely, there is a central co-ordination at the Coast Guard consisting of 16 ministries, which has central co-ordination in the port captains, in the Adriatic, 8, and in which the coordination is held by experts in charge of their Adriatic protection ministries. And it was not necessary under this law to form a new coordination but to add these works related to the protection and safety of the Adriatic in coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. On the other hand, the Environmental Protection Act provides for the adoption of a plan for the sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea, and on the basis of this plan, the State Centre for interventions was established in the sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea and the headquarters in each county has its own intervention headquarters in the event of the sudden pollution of the Adriatic Sea, which the headquarters adopted plans for each county individually. So there are already trained people on the ground, there are experts who are educated under the Environmental Protection Act, and their duty is to worry about interventions in the sudden pollution of the Adriatic. We do not understand why further law introduces a new body that has neither experience nor knowledge, nor is trained to do what there is a state headquarters in the Republic of Croatia and why there is a special headquarters in each coastal county that already has a plan for protection in the sudden pollution of the sea. Therefore, this law should and should have been better, more directional, more perfect for protecting the Adriatic better for the headquarters, add these jobs to the state headquarters, and to all the co-ordinations and to all the headquarters in the counties that have already made such plans, to the new obligations that arise under this law. This creates a parallel system that is not good, so that this system that is formed has neither the knowledge nor the training to intervene in the event of sudden pollution of the sea. Furthermore, this law prescribes all the components that the plan adopted by the intervention headquarters in sudden pollution must be complemented and this plan is now prescribed by the Environmental Protection Act and this law. There is a duality in the obligations of individual bodies and this cannot be done by means of quality intervention in the event of sudden sea pollution when coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. It was therefore better that this law found that the very jobs arising from it are being added to the bodies already in existence and that they also know. And what is not good is that, in this coordination, there are representatives of the Agency for Hydrocarbons whose main intention and establishment is to develop the energy system of the Republic of Croatia, and in that case, it is talking about the conflict of interest of the Agency itself when that body that develops the energy system and establishs a system of coastal exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation and, on the other hand, oversees these same coastal facilities. This is not good and this is contrary to Article 8 of the European Directive, which harmonises this law. So to conclude, we at the HDZ Club for these reasons cannot support this law. We believe that it is not, that the contrary to the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, I believe that the model which will control the protection of the Adriatic from the sudden pollution of the sea from the coastal objects is not high-quality, that it exists in the Republic of the bodies that are already doing this, for this they are trained, for this they also have their own resources both human and material, that this coordination of these resources does not exist and on the other hand the law provides that there will be no additional means in the budget of the Republic of Croatia to ensure effective protection of the Adriatic. That's why the club can't support a law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113461	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113462	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed colleague is not correct that the Ministry of Construction disagrees with the research and is not in line with the spatial planning strategy because only exploitation should be incorporated into spatial planning and can be explored throughout the Adriatic. So that's one of the important and key things that you've been discussing, so I just want to point out. You point out that the law is important, that it is late, that for the protection of the Adriatic and the environment, that this law should regulate it and, on the other hand, that you will not vote for it, and unlike the previous Law on Mandatory Relations that we have discussed and in which I believe the Government will accept certain amendments by the opposition, you have just said that this is not good, it is not good, we have it all. Well, we don't, we don't have that law, so we bring it both for ourselves and for the directive. And not to work by the rules and especially by forming special coordination because we have sensitivity and sensitivity and public and responsibility for protecting the Adriatic is important that this law regulates it to separate itself from other segments so that we can trust tomorrow and not only research but exploitation have security and retain that ecologicality that we have today in the Adriatic Sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113463	The replica matches the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113464	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Gjurkovic, the HDZ club will not vote for this law because he is bad and not from any doubt. As regards the possibility of exploring and exploiting the entire Adriatic area, I refer you to the Law on the Spatial Regulation of Article 67 and Article 126. Article 67 states that the state spatial development plan establishes areas for research and exploitation of the Adriatic. This state spatial development plan he accepted, that is, his obligation to adopt, established by this House was to be adopted by the end of this year. And this state plan of spatial development should be the basis for exploring and exploiting hydrocarbons in Croatia and until then, until it comes into force is the strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, and what is clearly just the Minister Anka Mrak Taritas. And I'm going to deliver it to you, I think there may be a Mr. Deputy Minister here. That this indication was one of the ministry's previous opinions when the government embarked on a public tendering process. A Article 126. The law on spatial planning says to access mining works, and mining works are also research, Mr. MP, not only exploitation but research, can be accessed based on a solution based on a power-based location permit. In order to issue this local authorisation, it is necessary to adopt a state spatial development plan. Therefore, these are the preconditions for exploring where in Croatia can be explored, not for someone in the Republic of Croatia at the Ministry of Economy or the Agency to think that we will move 6km away from the coast. We could've walked 2 km and 8 km and 18 km. Who prescribed that? Has the Parliament prescribed or the government prescribed that it's 6km? Why isn't it 8km or 2 or... [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113465	A new replica, dear Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113466	Thank you. Ha co-worker seems to me that it's actually an attempt to mutilate an illegal shop. Something that has been done illegally so far is now trying to build into a new law to become a new law. It is solely for the fact that HDZ has sent an interpretation that has not yet come to the agenda, although it has been sent and placed on the agenda much earlier than this bill. You also mentioned the fact that someone has determined that it is 6km from the island and so from the Mljet National Park it is possible to explore the future oil exploitation or 10km from Dubrovnik. I think it's clear to everyone about completely unfounded and illegal documents that unfortunately appear to be laws. And what to say only about the impact study on the environment that was not passed during or before the procedure that resulted in the signing of the contract with potential concessionaries. So there was no study to show where and how and when it is possible to explore hydrocarbons, there was no study that meant protecting the Adriatic that would say what we would do in the most important Croatian resource, so I can say if the most important economic branch is related to the Croatian Adriatic, it is tourism that brings the most income to Croatia, so this study that should tell her where it is possible or ate at all, and in which way it was brought only after the pre-negotiations were signed with the concessionaries. It is therefore clear that it is a completely illegal action that is trying to legalise itself through this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113467	Time. a response to Branko Bačić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Matušić mentioned miles and sea, first of all, it is unacceptable for people from the sea to measure distances at sea for miles, so there are nautical miles around the world, so it is clear in Croatia that this measurement system when it comes to sea distances is planned and envisaged in nautical miles, so it also caused ridicule in people who speak and deal with the sea. As for the possibility of even investigating the Adriatic, we at the HDZ Club have never once said that we are against hydrocarbon research on the Adriatic, I repeat on the Adriatic, but we have said that we are against this procedure which is absolutely illegal from the first moment. The hydrocarbon exploitation project is not a project of any government or party in Croatia, it is a project for decades not to say for decades and that the project should have been taken as a measure because it is one of the cleanest and most beautiful seas in the world. And when we decide to explore and exploit hydrocarbons at that sea, then it is the government's responsibility to implement this procedure on the highest standards in the world. And that's why our interpretation went against this procedure which is illegal, which is non-transparent, and which should have been suspended in our view because the deadlines that this Assembly adopted under the Law on Carbons have expired. These deadlines are past and have expired on April 2nd because the government with companies that were authorised to explore and exploit hydrocarbons prescribed a 90-day deadline, which is three months in which the deadline was due to be signed. That didn't happen. So these deadlines were over and the contest had to be suspended. The government could later establish a new tender but under this law the work had to be suspended.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113469	A new replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113470	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić, you pointed out in this debate why at the HDZ club but also the largest majority of Croatian citizens cannot support not such a law but the general actions of this government. This government has already shown many times that it behaves like Antun-Toon, each thing works in its own way. But Antun-Tun is cute, and this government is working to harm the Croatian people, this moment is to the detriment of the Croatian Adriatic, tourism, sea and cleanliness. This law is why we can't support it, so you spoke well, because it's in reality when it's good and it includes all of what you've stated should be preceded by all these advances that the government has already done with the company Spectrum, allegedly doing some scientific research, and now it's seen that it wasn't at all scientific research for the purposes of science alone, but it has served for something else, for some I would say dirty jobs, it's said in Croatia. The concession agreements, as you pointed out there, were no environmental impact studies. So how do we support this? And as far as coordination is concerned, you've been good at all the problems of this kind of coordination that comes from everything in this law along the way. How will this coordination intervene in the event of a disaster that will occur at sea when it has never intervened once in the event of a disaster incurring garbage from Albania? So has this government shown itself in the interest of solving such a problem? No, they go all wrong, and everything upside down and all that's wrong to cover up the reality of guessing, and it's clear to everyone today because that's not done then it would be done by law, not against the law and common sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113471	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113472	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I did not mention any seismic interrogation, but it would be good for the ministry and for Mr. Deputy Minister to publish a contract between the Ministry and Spectrum before the interpretation in the Croatian Parliament. If nothing is disputed, I do not see any reason why this contract should not be published and that all these doubts and dilemmas that have been raised through parliamentary issues and in numerous discussions we should disclose and see that the Government is indeed in everything, in this procedure in which the contract with Spectrum was signed, acting in accordance with the law, protecting Croatian national interests. And as for the model by which this law defines the protection of the Adriatic, I have made it clear that I disagree. In fact, in Croatia, there is a Coast Guard at the Ministry of Defence, that there is a co-ordination of 16 ministries that was founded solely to protect the Adriatic. With this law, and this coordination has in all port captains, so at 8 locations in the Adriatic, their own facilities, professional facilities that are only engaged in this. In addition to this system in which the state has invested significant money to set up another coordination that is only now the first time that this business is facing us, it is not good for us. However, it is harmful and cannot respond to the challenges of polluting the Adriatic Sea as can the bodies that have human resources and material resources, primarily coast guard and co-ordination made up of restoring ministries. These tasks should be added to the Coast Guard or its coordination. In Italy, there's a cost of the guard, there's a coach guard in America who does these jobs, I don't see why we're not modeled by such bodies, the state bodies that have experience, which can respond in quality, which have resources and in this law prescribe that they are competent.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113473	Last replica, respected Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113474	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bačić, I believe that no one in their right mind in Croatia is at all questionable about the value and desire of maximum protection of the Adriatic. The Adriatic is one resource that is absolutely unique and certainly no one's mind falls into any way to endanger that potential. Gas and oil have been exploited in the Adriatic for decades. And I haven't heard from anyone in the past 20 years that there have been some kind of major alarms about exploiting the only thing we've given AGIP gas exploitation. This law obviously also goes in the direction of maximum protection of the Adriatic as a resource but allows certain exploitation of the treasure located in the Adriatic. Would you really want under the maximum protection that is possible at this time and the most modern methods of protection to prevent future generations of all those treasures that could be drawn from exploiting these goods?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113475	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113476	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is not true that oil has been exploited in the Croatian part of the Adriatic for decades. Gas is exploited and oil isn't. But I'll tell you something else when that's how you replicate. Do you think that in the 1960s, when the castle swimming pool began to be built, building Juvanilla cements and all that was happening in the Gulf of Kastelan that these people had no best intentions to raise economic Croatia? They had the best intentions, but the result was the catastrophic pollution of the Kaštelan Bay, and to this day, the bay is being arranged and they have been defined by missed investments. And on the one hand, it didn't get much and on the other hand we polluted the best part, perhaps the most beautiful part of the Adriatic, "Little Venice" called Vranjic, etc., etc. I'm afraid that we are going through the same procedure and here what is blinded in a certain way by the possibilities and financial benefits that can give us the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, we are neglecting the other part that is very important, which is that this pure Adriatic allows the development of tourism, maricculture, fisheries, etc., etc. So I repeat, and what I have already said 100 times is that the government has started in a procedure that is legally envisaged, that it has not been hasty for what reasons, I still don't know today what the reason for this government's haste is to do something that can happen and do in one time of 2, 3, 4 years, it doesn't matter, one year more or less, but that we have done everything in a way to protect the Adriatic as a resource that really enables Croatia's economic development. You know that tourism income is about 18 to 20% of GDP, and we must not be distracted from the idea that on the one hand we are taking a very high risk and that we have not prepared everything that we have as a modern state and that we have tools in our European Union legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113477	Next is the individual debate of the respected Mirale Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113478	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of my debate on this proposal for a law on security in coastal research and exploitation of hydrocarbons with a final draft of the law, I would like to stress that I will not support this bill because this law, or the bill, is another proof for me, or another argument in favour of the claim that the Government has no good intention at all in the realization of the hydrocarbon research and exploitation project in the Adriatic. Which is why I claim that the government has no good intentions in this respect, the main reason is that all of us who are involved in politics, so people who work in ministries, politicians, deputy ministers, ministers, assistants, the government as a whole, should work in the public interest and protect public interest. This law does not protect that public interest. There are a lot of arguments why I can say why it is so related to this law, but before that I will look at the overall implementation of a project of exploitation and exploration of hydrocarbons from the very beginning, which was highly speculative and points to a very clear guess and I would say corruption. In fact, if we look back at 2013 and how the Government hired Spectrum to carry out allegedly scientific research of 2D seismic research of the Adriatic, we can clearly conclude that this is not a practice that is normally carried out in other European countries or in developed world countries. Namely, when hiring a multiclient company it is common to conduct a public tender. Our Government did not do this, but smudged it, in fact, by the Ministry of Science in this project, and without respecting the fact that in July 2013, the Ministry of Economy signed a contract with the company Spectrum, which has not been announced to the Croatian public to this day, although in November of last year I sent a parliamentary question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I asked them to provide me with a copy of the contract. I would like to point out here that recently the High Administrative Court ruled in favour of the Commissioner for Information on the grounds of Croatia's Sustainable Development, or OraH, where we were looking for another ministry, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, to provide us with a copy of the lease contract concluded by the Ministry of Environmental Protection with the company Europolis Zagreb Tower. The ministry, as it is known, refused to do so by saying it was some kind of business secret. On our complaint, the Commissioner for Information said that the ministry should deliver the contract, they did not, they replied by filing a complaint to the High Administrative Court. The High Administrative Court recently ruled that there are no business secrets when it comes to state affairs. And that is why I insist, in this place, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia finally answers my parliamentary question and provides me with a copy of the contract between Spectrum and the Ministry of Economy because it is in the public interest. You can no longer get away with arguments that it's a business secret and that you didn't get permission from Spectrum. I also want to know who the author of this contract is, as I want to know and who the authors of the concession agreement between the state and the means of concessionaires available on the Agency's website, now not only for the Adriatic but also for the mainland. Furthermore, I can say, therefore, according to what we can read on the very web pages of the Agency for Hydrocarbons, so it is a contract between concessionaries and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, etc. the production of sharing agreement, and the analysis of the data contained in this document makes it clear that contrary to the claims made by the government and the hydrocarbons agency that is operating on this job, according to which the Republic of Croatia will remain about 55 % of the hydrocarbon produced in the Adriatic, it is absolutely certain that it will not happen. In fact, what Croatia can in the most unfavourable but in a very certain case is a profit of 14% of the total value. In the best-case scenario, profits for the country can be 25 to 30% of total profits but the likelihood of this is very low because, in the end, so far, research by the Adriatic has shown that there are little oil and gas supplies in the Adriatic. More specifically, the probability of finding large amounts of oil, which is essential for achieving the most favourable scenario, is not greater than 3 to 5%. In addition, this proposal does not mention the compensation of indirect losses in the event of incidents, which is an unrealized and missed profit in the case of tourism, fisheries and maricculture. According to the contract, the concessionaire does not have a defined obligation to use the infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia for the transport of oil, there is no quantified obligation of the quota and level of expertise in the employment of human resources from the Republic of Croatia and ultimately, this contract does not foresee an option for the Republic of Croatia to enter a partnership in the production of hydrocarbons in case rich reserves are found. From what I have stated earlier, it is clear that the published contract on the Agency's website is not in the public interest of the Republic of Croatia. It could even be said that it's a shameful colonial contract that doesn't even have a very, very undeveloped country in the world, not those countries that already have a very long tradition related to the oil industry and the exploitation of oil and gas. They can also return to the strategic environmental impact assessment itself. It is known to all that the strategic environmental impact assessment was not the first to happen but to happen first in fact in the competition, that Spectrum happened first, which is absolutely contrary to the way in which such projects are usually carried out. This law is also proof that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not work in the public interest related to the implementation of this project, and what is most controversial, in my opinion, about this law? In fact, the proposer argues in several places that this law is being passed in order to achieve greater safety and protection of the Adriatic during the implementation of these projects, which even the promoter admits to being risky. But that is not the case, and this law will not actually protect the Adriatic from it. For what? They're deadlines first. I will remind you that the law stipulates that the deadline for adapting existing coastal facilities is 19 July 2018, while all new procedures on coastal works must be harmonised by 19 July 2016. Does that sound like something going in the direction of the great protection of the Adriatic at the moment? That doesn't sound like it to me. Speaking of technologies, I've had a lot of opportunities to communicate with oilmen. So, as far as hydrocarbon research and exploitation technologies are concerned, you have three main types of these platforms. One and the oldest are the ones that are fixed in fact and that do not have engines that can be maneuvered and moved. Most companies that are interested in jobs in Croatia have just such outdated platforms. The other type is semi-romotive or semi-mobile platforms that have two engines and the third type are completely platforms that have 4 engines. No concessionaire negotiated with these projects in the Adriatic has such technology. I believe that if this law really concerns the applicant to protect the Adriatic and to ensure the best conditions for protecting the Adriatic Sea, concessionaries should be conditioned to apply exactly this technology because it is an extremely sensitive eco system. We can't compare to the North Sea and Norway, we can't even compare to the Gulf of Mexico because they're actually open areas. The Adriatic is a closed sea, a very sensitive eco system and for this reason I ask you not to waste the most valuable resource the Republic of Croatia has in the long term because of its small profits, because of the opportunization of certain lobbys.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113479	We're moving on to replicas. First Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113480	Thank you. My colleague Holly, you could say that when something bad starts, it's certainly going to end badly. Well, it really started out badly with the quasi scientific research conducted by Spectrum. It is already sufficiently speculative that some institutions should check what it is. The non-publishment of the contract with Spectre was further followed. The next step followed by giving a strategic study to a company that is highly questionable by competence. We had a round table you were on. Almost all participants, who know very well the area of environmental protection, questioned the competence of the persons working in the strategic study. What to say about the fact that before the strategic study was completed that they had already given concessions for research. What do you say about that? Well, that's what I think is crazy, it's the opposite of all the EU directives we have in environmental protection. And before any store especially near protected parts of nature, the Adriatic is hundreds of points and protected parts of nature or national parks. We have Mljet National Park, six kilometers away from talking about miles, maybe it'd be better to talk about four miles or I don't know how many. So, Kornati. What to say about these protected parts of nature. Well, of course the previous study, the strategic study simply has to be done in order to start thinking about anything and let alone work in these areas. I think the thing is very, very clear, that someone has unclean and dishonest intentions in this business and, unfortunately, insists on carrying out this job by trying to legalize it through this law that is now on the agenda. It is I think a very bad message to the Croatian public and a generally bad message to all those who care about the future of the Adriatic. What to say about the fact that the maximum profit, let's say that a billion euros and tourism alone generates 7 billion euros One case as it was now in Santa Barbara a few days ago that we were told was an example of Santa Barbara where thousands of tons were poured out. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] No one can come there anymore. What's gonna happen... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113481	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113482	Dear fellow Matušić, therefore, it is about permits and not concessions. Fortunately, no concession agreements have yet to be signed, I hope that it will not be because it would be completely contrary to the Law on hydrocarbons, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is supposed to respect. When we talk about Spectrum, so in response to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 10 month parliamentary question, it's not at all mentioned that with the Ministry of Economy, Spectrum signed a contract, it's all being transferred to the Ministry of Science and it's actually about scientific research that won't be commercial. So, by then, the government had ugly, hidden and unfair intentions because if it were different then they would have mentioned in response to my representative's question that the contract was signed. The suspicion is very high because they did not want to provide me with a copy of the contract, although I asked for it in November 2014. So, they're hiding something, something's wrong with it. So it's not really about any scientific research. When we talk about an environmental impact study, or a strategic environmental impact assessment, there was an assessment by a company that has absolutely no reference in this business. That's scandalous. I think a company that exists for 2 years can get a job strategic environmental impact assessment for such a sensitive and risky project I think it's enough to talk about the intentions of the one who hired such a company and the one who's been carrying out the entire course of this project in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113483	Another replica, the respected Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113484	Dear colleague Holly, we are in Croatia for many things specific. Whatever and whenever we go into something, then some strange things happen, so we don't smoke smoke, so we don't smoke cement to the concrete store because it's blowing, so we don't want the Flower Square because you don't know who remembered, we're not gonna be fountains because it's something. In this part, however, I fully agree with you. And the government just like you said obviously has no good intentions with this law. Kicking off from the very beginning with the Spectrum that you've explained well. What Mr. Bacic has been saying to us for a month, a year, not even two or three years in that section of research and exploitation, elaborated and found the best solution that is related to the preservation of our greatest national wealth if we talk about the Adriatic. Maybe the government, at the very beginning, when it's going into this whole story, is essentially a game with Spectrum, and it's kind of a good idea to get some kind of big maestral result in that part of it, so let's go find out now, and we'll draw some oil, and we'll all suddenly get up and start this whole economy of ours. However, everything as things go along with this law, with a complete procedure, with the passing of the Spectrum file, has gone wrong and clearly not good intentions. And this particular line of yours that you said between the last one that comes down to a shameful colonial contract, it seems to me that's what you said, that's exactly what it comes down to. Which means years, two, three years in that part if you find the best possible model to protect the Adriatic, and these resources, if they exist down there, existed 50 and 100, 200 and 1000 years ago. And in that part of what will it mean for our country, for our people, for our economy in this year, next year or for 10 years? But to make a procedure that needs to be done to respect the best criteria of protection for both the Adriatic and the whole of that part of our environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113485	The answer to the line, dear Mirella Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113486	So here's another piece of evidence of how serious this project is being carried out is that no risk assessment has been done at all. For a project this risky, I think it's too scary. Because we're aware that accidents happen every day on the investigative and exploiting wells. They may not be the way to say catastrophic dimensions like this accent in the Gulf of Mexico or recently at Santa Barbara, but we should keep in mind that in search drills, because our first phase, risks depend on a very large number of factors. It does not matter if drilling is carried out at smaller depths or is carried out at greater depths. When we talk about oil exploitation, it's about far deeper depths than gas exploitation. I talked to the experts, when we talk about the Adriatic, then they told me that the gas sites are usually between 1,000 and 3,000 meters while the oil is between 3,000 and 5000 meters, which is a very large difference especially when you have in mind what technology will be used on these research wells. Also, in the law itself, the Government of the Republic of Croatia says that during all these years these projects have not been carried out by any major accident caused by this. That's not entirely true. I'd like to remind that of Milne 1, okay, she happened not at sea, but she happened on the island, but we're talking about similar geological structures, which you can assume you agree with me. So there's been a leak of extremely large amounts of H2S, or sulfur, which is the most toxic gas in the world. And what is alarming is that so far, geological research has contributed to the fact that Croatia's Adriatic is in this area very much how to say dangerously because of this gas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113487	The last replica, the gnome of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113488	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Holly, I support your debate as well as the debate of our colleague Bačić, who spoke in front of the HDZ club. In the same way, we agree on the same thing as most of the professions in Croatia and the professional public in Croatia and generally people in Croatia who live and from tourism, whose tourism is still one backbone where young people stay in Croatia not to leave their places. Namely, you remember well the presentation of the company that was shown here in the Parliament. Well, I'd say she was at the level, but I won't insult the lower-class primarys, and I mean far worse. So it's a presentation of several icons. The director of the agency smiled wisely, she yelled at all the answers with no risk, no risk, and I guess that's why there's no risk of this risk impact study. Well, from everything then on, I hope you'll agree that it turns out that this was never about any public interest. Indeed, you mentioned it yourself, and we in HDZ want to stress this is not about public interest. Because if it were a public interest then the professional public would be heard, then it would be respected professional opinion, then it would be respected, so I would say the Minister of Environmental Protection, and not only what the government wants to solve would be respected. Why? What's the point? Is this about some secret interest of some great power organization, who's behind it? Well, of course we are all in a dilemma and in fear of such a way of ruling this moment in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113489	The answer to the line, dear Mirella Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113490	So it certainly is not about public interest because taking care of the public interest would then the government would make far greater efforts to extend the tourist season, which at the annual level brings 7.5 billion euros while it is a very optimistic forecast for the annual exploitation or revenue that the Republic of Croatia could have from this project 160m euros. So when you put those two digits on the scale, I think you've already said it yourself. When we talk about exploiting wells, then it's not just the problem of exploiting wells itself, but of course there's an oil pipeline that transports that oil to the land and to those plants that are pre-processing or oil processing. Relatively recently we had this case of Santa Barbara, there the hawaria occurred on exactly one of these connected pipelines, and I have this kind of interesting data that means probability, the frequency of leaks on the pipelines by statistical indicators is very high and is, say, how much is assumed to have been built for the purpose of exploiting some 50km of connected pipelines then the overall probability of dropping 50 to 500 meters of cubic oil. So over the year, not that it might happen, but that it will definitely happen twice a year. Is this a risk that we are willing to accept when we talk about the economic potential of the Adriatic in a touristic, fishing and mariculturnal sense? I remind here that the share of Croatia's GDP, 17% of tourism participates in the total Croatian GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113491	Thank you. I am concluding a debate on this item of daily work. I would like to thank Deputy Minister of Economy for the respected Alan Leveric and all those who participated in the debate. I'm announcing a break now. We will continue at 3 p.m. with the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Airports. Bon appetit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113492	Final proposal for a safety law on coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 849. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 74 votes in favour of, 8 abstentions, 13 votes against the passed Law P.Z.E. No. 849 in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113493	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. In front of us - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Airports, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 852 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. We have with us a representative of the motionary, Deputy Minister Zdenko Antešić. Deputy Minister intro? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113494	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives and MPs. The relevant Airport Act provides for the following issues, namely the definition of airports, then legal status, the design format for the provision of services at airports, the activity of legal persons providing services at airports, the provision of concessions for airports, then the property-legal relations, or the procedure of extradition for the construction of an airport and the conversion of funds to social property in existing airports. The same law provides that the airport is open to public air traffic, which sets out areas with operational surfaces, facilities, installations, installations, installations and equipment intended for the movement, take-off and landing and stay of aircraft, as well as the reception and equipment of aircraft, passengers, luggage, goods, things and mail. Furthermore, airports are of good interest to the Republic of Croatia. The airport management and the provision, coordination and supervision of the provision of ground services at the airport are carried out by companies which are obliged to ensure the provision of ground-based services to airport users. The airport law provides for the possibility to grant concessions for the construction and management of airports, the time of concession, the powers and the procedure for granting concessions, the concession fee, the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the construction of airports and the procedure for the award of property for the construction of an airport. Although the Airport Act provides for the possibility of changing the ownership structure established by this law, the transfer of business shares so far has not changed in the ownership structures of Zagreb, Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, Pula, Rijeka and Osijek, whose core capital is part of the Republic of Croatia, the local and regional self-government units in which the airport is located with the roles of the same law. Amendments and additions of the 2011 Airport Act are encouraged and implemented to comply with the rules in the area of air traffic and to comply with the Treaty on concessions at the time and to provide a legal basis for the implementation of the initial concession procedure for Zagreb Airport and concession procedures for other airports. The contract on concession for construction and management of Zagreb Airport has fully entered into force and is the concessionaire of the International Airport Zagreb d.d. 5th December 2013 took over the management of Zagreb Airport. Since the award of a concession on real estate is owned by Zagreb d.o.o. The basic management activity transferred to the concessionaire for 30 years is the status of the Zagreb d.o.o. It remained undefined, and this would also be the case with other airport concessions, which enables the applicable Airport Act to apply. In addition, there is an open question of compensation for the use of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional self-government and airports as legal persons, which the concessionor gives to the concessionaire for use by means of a concession agreement. In the event of a concession for the Zagreb Airport, the real estate fee is not particularly indicated and this is a question of exceptional importance and urgency for the company Zagreb d.o.o. Since, as a taxpayer, it would have to comply with the tax obligations on assets held as bookkeeping property, which is placed in a concession. In addition, the applicable Airport Act provides for the possibility of concessions in cases where real estate or airport is owned by a unit of local and regional self-government, i.e. owned by a company in which the units of local and regional self-government are exclusively owned. The applicable Airport Act does not provide that concession providers are units of local and regional self-government in these cases. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the Airport Act are proposed to significantly regulate the possibility of awarding concessions in cases where the concession providers of units of local and regional self-government, provide a legal basis for the use of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, local and regional self-government and airports as legal entities, legally regulate airport status as legal persons in the event of termination of the concession contract, regulate in which cases there is an interest of the Republic of Croatia in the construction of airports and powers in the process of allowing real estate for the construction of the airport. In addition, it is proposed to lay down, exceptionally, that in the event of a concession on real estate owned by a company that is exclusively owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local and regional self-government, the shareholders of the share as beneficiaries of the concession fee may agree on the obligation to pay to a company an annual market value fee. In this respect, it is proposed that the provisions relating to the possibility that the holders of the share as concession fee may agree on the obligation to pay to the company an annual market value fee apply to concession contracts concluded before the entry into force of this law. Furthermore, the proposed amendments and additions to the Airport Act propose to be brought into line with the provisions of the Law on concessions of 2012 and other improvements to the text of the applicable Airport Act are also proposed. By adopting this law, the time limit for granting concessions with the provisions of the Law on concessions and the Law on the Public Private Partnership shall be laid down as a legal basis for compensation for the provision of real estate concessions owned by the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional self-government and airport. As legal persons, airports as legal entities shall be allowed to carry out certain technical operations in the conduct of preparatory actions for the award of concessions and in the execution of the concession contract, and shall regulate the takeover and management of the airport in the event of termination of the concession contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113495	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113496	Dear Mr. Vice President, thank you. In fact, Mr. Deputy Minister here are the reasons for going into these amendments and supplementing the law. There's a lot of things out there. We remember earlier problems related to the start and award of concessions for the construction of the new airport of Zagreb terminal and the delay of works and the collection of funds, that I do not speak of problems with the failure to meet the obligations towards workers that the government has concluded. The conclusion is still in force today, not out of force, nor has it been annulled. But we could still understand that before that we had the opportunity to discuss the Air Traffic Strategy. All of what you esteemed deputies are talking about plans, ideas about why it is going into certain legal changes would be logical that we could see a strategy before that, hear something about how Croatia imagines it in the future air traffic, what it will put emphasis on, how it will go, when and why in concessions, how it will go into any independent construction of the terminal. What part will turn towards EU funds, we absolutely cannot see in any strategic document. And in the end, we have a situation to say goes into amending and supplementing the law to bring this law in line with the 2012 concession law. And of course also the question of what about 300 million kunas that were on the account of Zagreb Airport before the concessionaire took over, before it was transferred to a new company called the International Airport of Zagreb and how they are being spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113497	Thank you, too. Next replica Zlatko Tušak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113498	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, you have explained the reasons for the amendment of the Airport Act which I can and understand in some ways because it is said that somewhere around 5 billion should be invested in airports and that these are significant funds. But I'm primarily interested in Article 1 where the length of the concession changes from 40 to 60 years. Counting that 40 years is a working age of people working somewhere, counting that in 60 years of exploitation of the Airport comes to a devastion and then the question arises in general why even extend that deadline, which motives were to increase the period of concessions from 40 to 60 years of age knowing that after 60 years of airports as such, if they are invested there will be no more use and that there will have to be significant investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113499	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113500	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, that deadline is only in accordance with the Law on concessions, which enables this deadline and the Law on Public-private Partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113501	Thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113502	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. Today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Airports, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. Looking back on the Law on Croatian Mails two weeks ago again, the same model of attempts and errors where we correct the laws by what we missed with previous law, and here we seem to be correcting by law what we missed through the famous Law on the concession of Zagreb Airport. This is not an irrelevant law, this is a law that costs the state budget, costs local self-government and costs one regional self-government, and what is very important has a retroactive effect. The retroactive effect means that we're bringing it back with us, i.e. with certain parts that will have a repercussion back a few years. Of all 11 articles, the most important article is certainly the second article of this Act and its ninth paragraph, which reads: "In the case of a concession on real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia and/or a unit of local and regional (regional) self-government or a company referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article, the concessionary shall pay and the annual fee for the use of real estate at market value, which shall be governed by the contract between concessionaries and real estate owners. So let's go to the history and concession of the Zagreb Airport. The Republic of Croatia has made a decision by the Government of Zagreb Airport. The concession contract was signed in 4 months 2012. We remember that time, it was one bombing announcement, the first big project here we start it, it's going to be a big benefit for everyone, etc., etc. However, the signing event itself has already caused some confusion in that day. When the contract was signed, of course the journalists asked and what we signed, and then we got an interpretation of the government and the interpretation of the concessionaries. The interpretation of the Government and the representatives was that the concessionaire would take over the existing Zagreb Airport and the existing terminal to manage only after they have built a new terminal, and they must do so within 36 months of the authorisation. Another interpretation of the government was that concessionaries would start paying concession fees immediately after the contract was signed. On the same day, these same concessionaries deny it and say that the concessionaire will take over the management of Zagreb Airport before building a new terminal and will pay concession fees when it takes over the management of Zagreb Airport. So we have the government's position and the concessionaire's attitude is contrary, the opposite of each other. But it's kind of gone and it's really moving on. The story I'm talking about the contract, and the announcement of that contract, it lasted almost a year and a half. It shall be published in 12 months 2013, following intense public pressures. It is one big contract, probably agreed by professional services, consultants, law offices, almost 210 pages of various rights and obligations between concessionaires and those giving concessions. In short, it says that the deadline for construction is 36 months, that the concession is given for 30 years, that it is agreed according to the public-private partnership model, that it obliges the concessionaire to build a new terminal, to connect it with the existing and all other buildings, to advance the existing terminal and to manage Zagreb Airport. After 30 years, the period of concession shall remain owned by the Republic of Croatia. The Zagreb International Airport will pay concession fees over 30 years. 4.12.2013. the concessionary takes over the management of Zagreb Airport. At that time, the dissatisfaction of Zagreb Airport workers appeared, we were witnesses and strike, and then the public became even more interested in what the Republic of Croatia signed through the contract and the provisions of the contract. I remember then various interpretations and questions of the prime minister himself to Minister Hajdashu-Doncic will the Republic of Croatia pay a concessionaire on the basis of a signed contract? The minister then clearly replied, of course, that we would not pay for anything. However, here we are today discussing the law, it has been three years since 2012 or slightly less than 2 years since the time of December 2013 and we are discussing a law that says that the Republic of Croatia will pay something to the concessionaire. So we have one complete loss of government that has signed something, obviously not well prepared, and today we are correcting it with a law that has retroactive effect. The Republic of Croatia will pay an annual fee for the use of real estate at the market value of the concessionary for the next 30 years. Is there anything more absurd in this country? It is even worse that part of this fee will also be paid by the City of Zagreb, the town of Velika Gorica and Zagreb County, given its shares in the property of the Zagreb Airport. So I rent you and pay you a fee for using my space for the next 30 years. I don't think we've ever experienced anything like this in three or five years, but one absurd, really absurd because someone obviously missed something in the concession contract that was presented I say to the big bells. The amount is not insignificant. State million and 375 thousand kuna times 30 years. Local self-government and county somewhere else around, they have 45% ownership, somewhere around nearly a million kuna and they for the next 30 years. And of course after such an activity, after such a procedure comes the law that gives us the right to ask questions. Did the Government of the Republic of Croatia give Zagreb an illegal concession for the Airport? And now retroactively this law is trying to correct the errors of the concession agreement. Did the Government unlawfully place the property of Zagreb Airport on free use of the concessionary? Namely, through the contract of compensation that we are talking about today for the use of assets is not agreed. Is this about a kind of favoring the concessionaire? In this way, Zagreb Airport becomes an expenditure or budget cost instead of income, i.e. 60 million kuna in the next 30 years. We agree that it is not insignificant, 60 million kuna is not small money not only for the state but I also say for local self-government and for Zagreb County. And we do it retroactively, backwards while the concessionary has a significant delay in much of the concession fee. Who agreed well or who agreed badly by signing such a concession agreement? Can anyone explain to us what the market value is mentioned and which determines the amount of compensation. What is the agreement, what is the market value and the way in which it is determined? We don't know that from a bill like this. When the property value of about 400 million kuna was paid, we are talking about buildings, did the concessionaire come up with a problem of paying taxes on that property they took to use? What is the amount of tax to be cut off on such a transaction, i.e. on such a signed contract where I entered into the ownership of the property given to me by the Republic of Croatia? Has the tax been paid in the last two years since the concessionaire used that airport? What about the decisions, here's a colleague asked, what about the company's decisions to carry out the concession providers' obligations in this case, the Republic of Croatia? What have our administrations, our societies, the Zagreb Airports turned into? That they only own land, that they pay from those funds that were on the bill and they're talking about 300 million kunas so that the concessionary can still work. Are we also going to concession Split and Dubrovnik Airports in a similar way? Is it ever, is it also, when an air traffic development strategy has been adopted, is it within the overall strategy of traffic development in the Republic of Croatia only a separate part, or is it something I say and we don't know? We simply at the HDZ club do not want to support the adoption of this law, which because of one's negligence, inaction, does not make the Republic of Croatia want to demand the cost of 60 million kuna in 30 years for the Republic of Croatia for two local self-governments and for Zagreb County. It's probably the contract and its assembly that's been paid dearly. This was done by probably famous law firms, consultants, it's not a simple legal act, but obviously there was a mistake. Why should the error be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? And that's one question that's being raised. And they will pay for it because it says here that the Republic of Croatia has already provided in the budget its 1 million and 375 thousand kuna in the division of the Ministry of the Sea for 2015 and then probably in the projections for 2016 and 2017. I think we can call this law a fee or a tax that someone forgot to negotiate and pay. Unfortunately, the mistake will be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We simply witness from week to week these attempts by the government to eliminate the mistakes made during the previous period and to put all of this on the backs of citizens and there was no legitimate need to do so. Because if this is normal, there is a question of what will happen to us in the future when other ports that are also bombistic are also taking place in the same or similar processes, we are talking about airports, and that is also a term that might have to reconsider whether they are more appropriate to be airports, not airports, and if we really are a society that can't make a quality and good contract without it being at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? For all these reasons, I say the HDZ Club cannot support this law no matter how much it contributes to further possible and better concessioning because the pea is visible and unfortunately costs 60 million kuna in the next 30 years to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113503	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Clear Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Boric, you said well during your speech on behalf of the club that, in some ways, when the concession was granted, it was given to manage the property by some estimates worth 400 million kuna, while forgetting to charge VAT. How will we get to this VAT, how will it get to the state budget, will it be paid by whoever got to the management of that property and the value and those means of work might call them because you yourself said that even in the first statements after the signing either that the concessionaire would get to the management of the old terminal when he built a new and let it into the market? Where did these funds go, and how is that going to be charged? If only they had ended up in the hands of workers, that at least the workers of Zagreb Airport had the right to pay them more than 1,000 as many had a plan to come to a small stake in some way. It was mentioned in the 2011 government conclusion up to 9%, up to 9%, as T com workers could, as could workers of some other public companies who were either privatised or thus. So that's where the injustice was done. And now it is likely that from those funds that they have left saved on the account of the Zagreb Airport will probably have to pay this tax as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113505	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113506	My colleague, I say I've been following this story from the beginning and in 2012, and we're not evil, nor want anything bad, but we just have a lot of situations that are questionable, and it all started at the very signing of a contract where the government that is, I remember sitting there and the concessionaries on the other hand, where the contracts were signed and then it came out with two stories. One story was told by the Government, and the other story was told by the concessionary and of course it caused public suspicion indeed because if you say you will take over the existing Zagreb Airport and terminal management only after a new terminal is built, after three years and you will pay concession immediately after you write the contract, and the French say we will not pay compensation until we take over the Zagreb Airport, and the management will take over even before the new terminal is built, then these are two different actions. Then we have a question for the Prime Minister, do we owe the concession agreement something to pay the concessionaire? We have a minister's answer that says no, we won't pay anything, and then the law comes that says we'll pay from the state budget to the concessionaire. What is most absurd we will pay him what we rented him and he benefits it, and we will pay it, the most absurd thing there is, and that is a million and 375 thousand kunas from the state budget and still about a million kunas of two local self-government and Zagreb County. How will this law affect them? Will they retroactively want to pay, will they be in a good mood to pay for it? There's talk of agreements here, there's talk of market value, and we don't know anything about it. We hope the motionary will explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113507	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113508	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not touch my fellow Boric, nor will it be determined that the state, the town of Velika Gorica, the city of Zagreb and Zagreb County will have to pay for something concessionary, and I will not touch the fact that today we are passing another law that we are retroactively correcting the greed of the government, which allegedly led to order in the country, but I will touch two things. One is that the citizens of Dance have dared to close the passage that has been there since. So this passage of people, and there were several hundred of them from nearby places, were coming to work on foot by this passage, were intended by travelers who had no connection from Zagreb Airport who continued to come to a lodging area around the airport. But what happened? Someone raised the parking price to 27 kuna an hour, and some people wouldn't pay for it, so they left the other car parks and then they had to close the fence so those people couldn't get to the airport. Then it was necessary to force the mayor to have utility officers and everyone else punish them for having parking lots and cars parked where it's been parked for decades and that's it. And then there's another thing going on. There are also certain public services from banks on which the citizens of Velika Gorica have been using for years because they are close and needed to cut their space and raise the rent several times. So from the whole story, who's going to get it eventually? He'll get a concessionary. Who's gonna lose? They will lose employees of the airport, lose citizens of Velika Gorica, lose the town of Velika Gorica because they are losing direct access to the airport because they will now come from the other side and will have nothing to do with Velika Gorica. So much for the government's interest, so much for introducing order because what we are today, that some of these two laws today are going to vote and how they're going to... the institutions of this state. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113509	Thanks, buddy. The answer of my colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113510	Thank you very much. Well, I, my colleague Schucker, can't know these little things about what's going on, and I'm sure you're much closer and more professional with regard to the services of the citizens. We're looking at the law that we've been given here for discussion. We know what happened, we followed that part and that basic question we asked here today I think a few questions that deserve the responder's answer because it is not important that those most concerned, and that the employees of Zagreb Airport, tomorrow International Airport Zagreb, know what is waiting for them because we know that there are some 300 million kunas left in the account and that the management of the society has virtually caved in to implement the obligations of the state from the concession contract in a way that buys out land, builds some installations, military installations, finance the construction of a water protection ring, etc. and all of these were some of the commitments that the state budget had made. Is she even independent today to do something like a company or d.o.o. Is it just government service to do what the government tells them to do? Are we going to have this tomorrow in Split, Dubrovnik and other airports for which large funds and investments are provided and eat the exclusive benefit of all that the concessionaire only earns. Because if he manages to earn on renting space and working in it, then the government pays him for it. Now that's already one question of absurdity and the ability of this government itself to say that they are the most controversial ever government in history. So now if this is the ability to ask the question of the limit of absurdity in this Republic because this really isn't misleadingly normal, let me rent you space and still pay you a fee for renting it to you. If we apply this to others, it will be difficult for the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113511	Ante Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113512	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Boris, all those citizens who have had the opportunity to listen to your debate today, I think it was quite clear to them in which and in what way this government is doing, by giving up work and honesty, you said the same model, the same mistakes for a series of laws passed in the Croatian Parliament, and one of the more absurd is actually this law that we are talking about today, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Airports with the Final Bill. You have rightly asked yourself how this is possible and how the state signed this contract with the concessionaire back in the 4th month of 2012 and what Resolute Minister Mr. Hajdas Doncic said there was no way that the state would pay something to the concessionaire for it. Of course, as in many things he did not tell the truth, rather he lied as did many who lie here today in the government by telling the truth by selling these untruths to the citizens. Namely, what will happen if airport Split, Dubrovnik, Varazdin is also concentrated in a similar way? Will we actually pay the concessionaire a certain amount of compensation and a set market value? The assessment of the resources needed to implement this law says that it will affect the expenditures of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 but also for 2016, according to projections about a million and a half kuna. Which means that in those 30 years there would be more than 60 million kunas that you were actually talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113513	Branko Bacic, replica. And the answer, here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113514	Thank you very much. At the beginning of my speech, I made it clear that this is not a harmless law, insignificant, to pass just as it goes, because it has two important characteristics, which is that it has a retroactive effect on what we say the Committee on Law has no objections, which will apply on 2013, 2014, and that it has a financial impact on the state budget but also on the budgets of the local self-government of two and one regional self-government. And we don't know the attitude of those local self-governments, let's say this law. The government imposed something on them, forced them to make amends equally according to their own shares in the Zagreb airport. It's 55 states, 45 have two local self-governments and a county. You're welcome to pay. And so for the next 30 years. Well, it's not that simple, so even if it's two cities that are financially let's say, I can say better standing. But let's just say it's not too small for the county. And we come here and then we tell the story of how with this law we're going to make this and this and that and the next concession and we don't want to admit the mistake, that's the basic problem. And that's why we asked 5, 6 very clear questions to the Deputy Minister to answer the same questions, and I hope we get an answer because they deserve an answer because it concerns people who work and live at the airport and they just don't care what it looks like tomorrow at some other airports. Unseriousness, I said no, obviously and doesn't care and then the contradiction of the main actors is what we've been witnessing for almost 3.5 years. Because if the Prime Minister asks the minister if I have to pay anything, he says you don't have to pay anything, and after two years you have to pay. Well, I think we all know what this is about and it's not one good approach for citizens, especially now in the election year to hunt hands in jam.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113515	Thank you. Branko Bacic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113516	Thank you, Mr. President. I would still like to join in asking a few questions that certainly interest the Croatian public, which is who is today a concessionary for the construction of the Zagreb airport passenger terminal. Is it ZAIC, a French consortium that responded to the competition or is it an MZLZ, an international airport Zagreb, if this is the International Airport of Zagreb, when and on what basis did the Government transfer concession from ZAIC to the International Airport of Zagreb? Another thing I am interested in is whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia was a guarantee for the provision of funds and for permanent financial structures for the construction of a passenger terminal? If I have to admit that it's surprising that the concessionor would have guaranteed the concessionaire that he could do a quality project for which he received the concession and for whom he applied for the competition. The third question is very important whether the International Airport of Zagreb if the concessionary of secondary activities which means core business airports has transferred to other subsidiaries of the daughter and thus reduced its own income from carrying out its own activity and then clearly... and reduced the concession fee because the concession is partly paid and according to the revenue achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm interested in these few questions, perhaps Mr. Deputy Minister, if he knows the answer to those questions, it would be good for him to give it to us. So who's the concessionist, when did the Zagreb International Airport become a concessionist? If and when did the government give consent? And did the government really give a guarantee to build a passenger terminal? And the third thing is whether the MZLZ has transferred secondary activities to the daughter's companies in order to reduce the income on which it will later be calculated... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113517	Thank you. Reply from fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113518	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bačić, if you remember when the concessionary entered the property, i.e. When he took the concession on the basis of the contract in 12 months 2013, a few days later we asked for a break here on behalf of the HDZ Club, we asked the Prime Minister to come or to come to the Minister of Maritime and Infrastructure and to clarify what had really been signed so that something that we, whether for us or for the citizens or for the public, had not been known and had arisen through the Treaty on concessions. And we're only here after two years, a little less we see that and then we're right as we are today, when we're looking for clear solutions so that what I said doesn't happen again that I'm asking the minister if I should pay anything, he says I don't have to pay anything, and then we're making a law that we're going to pay for, and that's certainly what we wrote down, and that's at least a million and 375 thousand kunas a year, only 30 years of state and a little less and local self-government. So we get caught up in some contradictions, not to say the hard word, the lies, and then, of course, they open up and all these other questions that can obviously come up. And we want to hear from the promoters today all the answers to the questions that we have asked and we will insist on them that this concession agreement and everything that is happening on the project that is now being run by the International Airport of Zagreb to clearly present itself to the public and that everyone has good information, quality information so that there is no confusion, so that some there are not constantly taking pictures and saying that everything is nice and wonderful and on the other hand we see that citizens are paying for negligence. And the question arises who put together this contract why this fee is not foreseen when the contract has already been signed but it appears here after a few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113519	Thank you. On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blažekovic's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy. Croatia has a long tradition of aviation, from Faust Vrančić, let me take this opportunity to invite all this summer to visit its beautiful museum on the island of Prvic, to Penkala, the airport of Borongaj, all these are concepts that speak very much about Croatia in terms of aviation, the development of aviation and airports. Airports and that is what I think determines everything that is the basis for implementing any regulation and the law is where it says: ′′Airports are of good interest to the Republic of Croatia; and that is the basis of all the laws, all the regulations that are passed by airports in the Republic of Croatia. But allow me on the basis of many today's and otherwise a discussion just a few words, I think it's very current and it's very important for all of us, a little dyspression. In fact, Greece is in front of bankruptcy, it's with one foot in the sink of bankruptcy, not for the first time, but it seems this time the hardest it's ever been. Clearly for her citizens the hardest than ever. After all, it will be a long painful, particularly uncertain way of recovery for Greece, its citizens, but also for the euro area and the European Union at all. And if we can get a message out of the Greek crisis, and there's really a lot of them, then it's that we need to send a message to the citizens that they really need to be very careful about who they round up when they go to the elections. ... Tsipras and Syriza are an eclectic example of irresponsible pulsism leading the country to ruin, and the state is citizens, and everything is always reflected on citizens and always paid for by citizens. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about topics, he says he'll pay the citizens again. It's about the state, the state is the property of citizens, and they always pay citizens. And that is why politics needs to be taken extremely seriously, and politics must be treated with extreme responsibility against the state or citizens. My belief is that after almost four years of this government's mandate, we have at least succeeded in some way, which is that in some ways we are responsible for the work we are doing. We haven't always done it best, it hasn't always been all sensational and all good, but we have a certain amount of responsibility and seriousness beyond the work we do always carry with us. One thing is to correct all sorts of mistakes and others, but also ours. One law that speaks of it is the same thing as this law. About Zagreb Airport. Croatia and its capital will finally receive one beautiful, state-of-the-art, one of the most beautiful, but this is a matter of taste, airport, certainly and state-of-the-art equipment in this part of Europe, after 25 years of waiting, and behind Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, I do not even speak of Serbia. Finally, at the end of 2016, we will get a beautiful new, modern, airport, speech before and by contract at the end of 2016. As a consummation of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, as well as any other, the only thing that matters to him is that he is cheap, comfortable and efficient in using that airport. It is clear that it is important what the state receives and what the state gives to such concession contracts, and a concession contract has been made as far as I understand it on the basis of a public private partnership. Therefore, allow me to repeat what is already said, and it is important that these proposed amendments to the Law on Airports in an important proposal, which is to regulate the possibility of giving concessions in cases where concession providers are local, regional and regional self-government units, which is important, that it is important to provide a basis for the use of property owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local, regional and regional self-government as legal persons, legally regulates airport status as legal persons in the event of termination of the concession contract, to arrange in which cases there is an interest of the Republic of Croatia in the construction of the airport and the authority in the procedure of enforcing property for the construction of an airport. It is proposed to lay down, exceptionally, that, in the event of the grant of concessions to real estate owned by a company that is exclusively owned by the Republic of Croatia, the unit of local, regional or regional self-government, the holders of the share as concession compensation powers can be understood, agreed on the obligation to pay to a company an annual fee of market value. It is proposed that the provisions relating to the possibility that the holders of the share as beneficiaries of the concession fee may agree on the obligation to pay to a company of an annual market value fee apply to concession contracts concluded before the entry into force of this Act. That's a lot of folks at the HDZ Club talked about. The law is proposed to comply with the provisions of the Law on concessions and other improvements to the text of the applicable Airport Act are proposed. The time limit for granting concessions with the provisions of the Law on concessions and the Law on public-private partnership shall be harmonised, the legal basis shall be given for compensation for the provision of real estate concessions owned by the Republic of Croatia, the unit of local and regional self-government and the airport as legal persons. It shall be possible for airports as legal entities to carry out certain technical operations in the implementation of preparatory actions for the award of concessions and in the execution of the concession contract, and shall regulate the takeover and management of the airport in the event of termination of the concession contract. Let me say a few more words about even though we are all aware, but it is not burning to repeat the importance, connection, importance of the traffic connection of all places where it is necessary, and it is necessary everywhere. Air transport and airports are very specific, especially for the reasons of the geographical configuration of the Republic of Croatia and are particularly important for connecting with the islands, so that Hvar and Vis and Korčula are certainly potentially interested in the development of tourism, but not just the development of tourism, certainly interested in editing and airports, increasing capacity so that these places can develop as best they can in any way. The Croatian People's Party, the Croatian People's Party club – Liberal Democrats will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113521	Thank you, too. On behalf of the club, I'm sorry, colleague Mesic, I didn't notice a replica. There's no replica. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club Mario Habek, please. ... You didn't raise a colleague in time. [[You can't hear it.]] Comrade Habek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113522	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The airport law was adopted in 1998 and has been amended once and in 2011 mainly in order to comply with the then applicable Law on concessions. The amendments and additions resolve the concerns identified in the interpretation and application of the provisions of the applicable Airport Act as regards the determination of interest in the construction of airports and the powers in the process of granting real estate for construction. This will remove administrative obstacles in the handling of competent authorities in the implementation of the start-up strategic project called the reconstruction and expansion of the Mali Lošinj airport runway and speed up the implementation of the European project development of Dubrovnik Airport. In particular, we consider a significant improvement and the possibility of awarding concessions in cases where real estate or airport is owned by a unit of local and regional self-government, i.e. owned by a company in which the units of local and regional self-government are exclusively owned, and what is currently important for the Varazdin Airport. In view of the fact that, in the current period of concession at the airport of Zagreb, areas that require further development and clarification of the legal provisions are more clearly regulated by the status of Zagreb Airport and the annual fee for making use of the property, since the Zagreb Airport should carry out tax obligations for the property that is bookkeeping as its property, which is given in the concession. Since certain doubts have been raised in the interpretation and application of the applicable Airport Act, this law proposes to establish the interest of the Republic of Croatia in real estate nationals of the Republic of Croatia or owned by a company in which the holder of the shares, i.e. shares of the Republic of Croatia, is owned by the Republic of Croatia. As already known in the public, a strong investment cycle has been launched in the airport infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia at the level of 5 billion kuna using different funding through concessions, EU funds, private capital, retained profits, favourable loans from development banks and the like. Air transport is a strong boost for tourism as one of the most important economic branches in the Republic of Croatia, but also in overall economic and social development. Therefore, positive developments and strong support from the Government of the Republic of Croatia are looking forward to this sector. This year will successfully complete the process of restructuring the Croatian airline Croatia airlines for which the strategic partner's search process has been launched. All airports in the Republic of Croatia report positive results and a significant increase in passenger numbers, while the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency is positioned at the very top of the roof, European authorities responsible for the safety of air transport. The SDP Club supports the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Airports, as we believe that it would make it even stronger, that it would support positive developments more strongly and give further incentive to further development of air traffic in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113523	Thank you, too. The replica of my colleague Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113524	I hope I've raised Mr. Vice President early enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113525	You've picked up your line yet, Comrade Habek hasn't even started speaking, but here I've accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113526	So I couldn't pick up Mr. Blazekovic when he was half talking about Greece, I didn't want to replicate that part, but when he started talking about airports, then I picked up a plate. Although it would be interesting to note that a respected colleague from the SDP club strongly supports these amendments and the amendments to the law, to tell us and to explain to us how this concession agreement was signed by the deputy minister, and then the minister in charge of the signing, in accordance with the law, had suddenly hurt his spine and arm and could not have been done by the Vice-President of the Cacic, who was there at the time, nor could the Prime Minister of the Government have done so who was there at the time. Who takes on, say, paying off a loan if there happens to be a fall in the concession contract, who takes out a loan to banks that finance the construction of a terminal that we failed, or at least I failed to find out on a series of issues? And what's very interesting, I'd also like it to be technically the most modern, one of the most beautiful, but it would be interesting to see the changes in technical documentation that have happened lately so you'll see some of the colleagues who like this new terminal so maybe they're looking at a model of something else entirely. Because that the changes in technical documentation are such that you might stay in wonder. What is certainly good is that recently it has been possible to see how many officials of the Croatian government have spent in the VIP salon, from the rank of assistant minister, deputy ministers because, of course, the new concession holders began to charge them neatly and so far, they have been smuggling. At least the Croatian public could see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113527	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of Deputy Minister Zdenko Antešić. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113528	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a few sentences I'd say in the end if it didn't stay in the air. Namely, the additional estimated cost for the state budget on which so far the speech has been spoken is not paid in favour of the concessionaires but for the benefit of the Zagreb d.o.o. Airport. So that's where we have to draw one clear line of demarcation because multiple repetitions of falseness are becoming true. And I don't think it's good to use such effects. Therefore, this additional amount of one million and 375 thousand kuna per year, which goes from the state budget, is paid to the giro-account of Zagreb airport, not the International Airport which is a concessionaire is negligible in relation to the overall benefit of the project of building the management of Zagreb Airport through concession contributes to the state budget and overall economic development of the Republic of Croatia. So here are a few figures that will illustrate these claims. Thus, by countering the overall effects of the project, the grant of a concession for the construction and management of Zagreb Airport, the Republic of Zagreb, did not have direct costs from the state budget. Therefore, all the costs of the development of the project amounting to about 15 million kuna and other obligations of the Republic of Croatia under the concession contract were borne by Zagreb d.o.o. while the value of building a new passenger terminal of 235 million kuna was secured by a concessionary. On the other hand, the benefit of the concession fee of 30 million kuna in 2014, plus 46 million kuna in 2015 and this fee is increasing from year to year, and 55% is paid in favour of the budget of the Republic of Croatia, in the City of Zagreb budget 35%, in the budget of the City of Velika Gorica 5% and Zagreb County 5%. It is also necessary to point out the significant indirect benefits that the construction of this terminal of 235 million generates through increased employment and consumption. This is where about 1,000 workers from Croatia work. So then on the construction of access roads where materials and Croatian manufacturers are used. Then various fees, taxes, contributions, VAT on materials and more are paid. And I still have to mention that this, so this project is in a technical sense, so... ahead of construction deadline. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the work takes place faster than the scheduled deadlines ahead of the contract. Why, and to clarify this question to the end, so the concession law at the time when the concession agreement was signed did not provide for compensation for the use of airport assets given in the concession. The new law, which was subsequently passed on concessions, provided for that compensation and is exactly what I said in the introduction of this law in that part, harmonizes provisions with this new Law on concessions. Well, anyway, we're very proud of this project in the ministry, and he's definitely good. It is a unique project, which is done on the principle of public-private partnership, and will certainly have inconceivable positive effects for the Republic of Croatia. And if there are any questions of technical, financial, legal and other nature I would ask you to be guided and surely you will, I guarantee you that you will get an accurate, quality and quick answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113529	Thank you too, Deputy. We're moving on to replicas. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113530	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Deputy, you finally said if there are questions of financial, technical, legal nature that someone else is going to answer, so I'm going to ask you questions that aren't so complicated. And that's when the MZLZ International Airport became a concessionary since you signed the 11th April 2012 contract with ZAIC. So I'm interested in when it was transferred and why the new concessionaire at the International Airport of Zagreb? Secondly, if you can answer very briefly, is the Government a guarantee or is it not a guarantee of closing the financial structure for the construction of the passenger terminal? And thirdly, I don't think it's a problem to answer whether the MZLZ therefore founded a subsidiary of the daughter for secondary activities and thus fictitiously reduced its own revenues because these revenues in the variable part of the concession fee are the basis for calculating the concession fee itself? Well, that's not a very difficult question. I'm interested in whether or not that's what I've been setting up for a year and a half in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113531	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113532	Those questions will be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113533	Thank you, Deputy. Ante Babic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113534	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, when you spoke about these concession fees, I will tell you what is in this bill that in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 in the 2016 and 2017 projections, funds have been provided for the implementation of the concession contract for the construction of the new airport of Zagreb. So much for whether we know it or not. You have received a series of questions during this debate that you have not answered, but when you signed such a concession agreement as a state, you could at least, and that is embarrassing because since 4 months of 2012 the Republic of Croatia means its institutions, the president of the state, the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia can no longer use a vip salon in Zagreb Airport, but therefore pay an enormously high fee. So you could use it when you signed such a contract that at least these institutions of the Croatian Parliament, the presidents of the state and the Government of the Republic of Croatia can at least use this vip salon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113535	Next replica Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113536	Thank you very much. I can see there's no response to the replicas. Dear Deputy, everything would be resolved and all the answers would be given to publish that concession contract. If you have so much to be proud of in the ministry, and you said you were proud, then publish, but all the details. No, not all of them, not all of them. Why did you change the concession agreement? Who's the signator of the concession and is that the first bidder? How much, who's the founder of this concessionist company? How many of them had completed concession contracts until then, and how many employees did they have? How much is the underlying capital and everything else? They invented a company that didn't do it at all. Establish the company that concluded the concession agreement. You've changed, and the concession contract has been changed in walking. The value of the concession contract has been reduced. How could you change from the competition? How could you do that? Why are you doing this? You're proud of it. Ma Croatia has many shameful works, but this is, the concession of Zagreb Airport is one of the most shameful works of Croatian politics. And not that a November economy would be ashamed of such a contract, but a high school student of economics if he saw only the first article of the concession contract, the shame would be taken over by such concessions. Tell me, why did he pick up the parking lot after the concession was concluded? That's not a word. He's got 100% of the parking lot. What are they doing with, please don't comment while I'm talking and we kept quiet while you were talking. If you have anything to respond to. Thank you very much. I don't want to go on like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113537	Thank you. A colleague, Maric, can talk to the Prime Minister. You can't tell me what I'm gonna do. I asked the deputy if she would answer the question of counterpart Maric. Therefore, you have no reason to be angry at me or the deputy. The last replica is Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113538	It was interesting to hear the closing word of the esteemed Deputy Minister. It will also be interesting to hear what the concessionary will say, given that we have learned in the practice so far to say one thing by the competent ministry and the government, and the other by concessionaries, who are mostly right. It may be true what Mr. Deputy Minister said that the funds will be paid to the account of the ZLZ or these Zagreb Airport, but they will be paid in the name of the concessionaires because they were actually to be paid by the concessionaire, or the International Airport of Zagreb, which has about a hundredth of my information employees, not a thousand, somewhere about a hundredth of them are being held under the International Airport of Zagreb. And in this way, funds are actually lost from the state budget, and those funds that existed or were on the account of the Zagreb Airport are being spent, for example, on building new installations, because you well know that there was a technical problem that the fighting duo could not have gone on the runway. And that because of the project it was designed, there was a danger that Croatia would not have in preparation a fighting duo that must be on constant alert. Therefore, these funds had to be made up of new military installations which were paid by those funds of a state which had an account rather than a concessionary, but rather the means that the workers had offended them before the project went into concession. And also a system against water is reportedly being made out of these funds. Therefore, not only was there not a cost, there was some cost to make certain things happen because they had to be made a ramp to get out of a fighting duo in the not-given case of a need to defend the Croatian sky.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113539	Thank you. This concludes the debate. I'd like to thank the deputy with her associate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113540	Final proposal of the Airport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 852. The debate on the text of the law is over, amendments tabled by MP Mario Habek. I'd like a representative of the ministry of fellow Deputy Zdenko Antessic to be shown on the Maria Habek amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113541	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113542	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the vote is 75 votes in favour, no abstentions and 21 votes against the law P.Z. No. 852 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113543	We continue with: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 848. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. You've received reports. With us is Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection of the Croatian Dokoz. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113544	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. The Council of the EU adopted Directive 2012/18 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the control of the threat of major accidents involving dangerous substances and amending and subsequently repealing Council Directive 96/82. Of course, following that assessment and the situation and the need to comply with the new acquis, or by enabling better direct implementation of the EU regulation, the amendment and addition of the Environmental Protection Act has been made, in particular for the purpose of transposing that Directive. Amendments to this law, which relate significantly to the transposition of that Directive, relate to the introduction of a new procedure of compliance with the policy of preventing major accidents, and to the improvement of the way in which information and ways that make it available, and to the introduction of stricter standards for environmental protection inspection in order to ensure more effective implementation of the law in question in the area of control of the threat of major accidents involving dangerous substances. Furthermore, the development of an amendment to the Environmental Protection Act has been approached and due to the need for further harmonisation with Directive 201/41 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment and Directive 2011/92 of the European Parliament and of the Council since 13 December 2011 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. Amendments to this law have been made to comply with Directive 201/42 of the European Parliament on the assessment of the effects of certain plans towards the environment, which is relevant to the introduction of a strategic assessment of the Plan Strategy and Programmes at local level. In addition, the evaluation process is introduced on the need for a strategic assessment for minor changes and complementarity of strategies and plans and programmes. The minimum duration of the public hearing for the strategic assessment shall be introduced in the procedures for the adoption of spatial plans for 30 days, in accordance with the provisions of the Archduke Convention and in advance of that Directive. In addition, the transposition of Directive 2011/92 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment is coordinated by means of which the environmental impact assessment process is improved, i.e. it is again prescribed that the measures or monitoring programme of the environment are determined by a decision on the acceptability of the environmental procedures, the mandatory content of the authorisations for the implementation of the procedures to be issued under the Construction Act. The interpretation of the law with the expression of Directive 2011/92 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment in the sense that the environmental impact assessment is defined as the procedure for assessing the possible significant effects of environmental interventions in the context of its preparation, inter alia, on the basis of its nature, size or location. The exceptions laid down in Directive 2011/92 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects related to the assessment of the impact of environmental interventions are further regulated in the sense that the second type of environmental impact assessment is defined and that the public is informed and that that exemption is notified to the European Commission prior to granting an authorisation for the implementation of the procedure. Additional conditions for the direct application of Regulation 66/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the protection of the EU environment are also allowed, and in line with the harmonised provisions relating to inspection and infringements. Exceptions shall be introduced from the use of that sign and the product concerned shall not be granted for medicinal products for human use, veterinary medicinal products and medical equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113545	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113546	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Minister. In front of us, this amendment of the law has 66 articles, we are already and it seems to me a long time ago, and I am sure I should have received a new Environmental Protection Act. These changes in 66 articles are very many, and there is a need for a new law. There are a lot of questions, but I think it'll be a colleague on behalf of the club. What I'm interested in, and can you answer me, what you've done, what the Ministry and the Government have done to prevent a disaster that lasts, and that's garbage from Albania and Montenegro that comes along the banks of Mljet and Peljesac, and that's equally related to risk assessments, but what has been done? And why would I ask that? Exactly because of that former hydrocarbon law where there was no risk assessment. But I'm curious now, what in this matter has the government done about this garbage because I think it's a mildly said ecological disaster and pollution of the sea, and how does the government act in such cases?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113547	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113548	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Until perhaps just a decade ago, under environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia, it was almost exclusively meant to take care of municipal waste, to resuscitate wild waste dumps and to persuade the local self-government unit to take responsibility for this municipal waste. But fortunately, today we are aware that environmental protection is much more than that. Environmental protection is also the management of natural resources, i.e. the importance of insisting on sustainable development. It's not only waste management but also management, efficient waste management. These are climate change, i.e. the impact of climate change on the environment, and the management of risks that these climate change pose. And of course this is the importance of environmental policies on the development of the economy. The draft law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act is, above all, further aligned with the European Union directives, which is our obligation and which is the reason and urgency of the procedure of this legislative proposal. This additional harmonisation brings forward a series of improvements, in particular in the section relating to the introduction of a new process of compliance with the major accident prevention policy, the improvement of the way information is managed and made available, the introduction of higher, stricter ways of environmental protection inspection, especially in the area of risk control of major accidents involving dangerous substances. The environmental impact assessments of certain public and private projects relate primarily to infrastructure projects such as the construction of hydropower plants, wind power plants, oil processing plants, roads and others, as well as the impact assessments of individual plans and programmes on the environment. The positive amendment adopted by this draft law also relates to the public or interested civil society associations' impact on environmental policy. This allows the civil society association to dispute acts of the public authority for which this law or special law provides for the possibility to file an appeal or action and to make a complaint to the ministry, although it has not previously participated in the public interest in the proceedings it disputes. Furthermore, the positive change also relates to the obligation to adopt a static environmental impact assessment extending from large cities and national parks to all units of local self-government by this legislative proposal in Article 13. The SDP Club is pleased with the amendments which the applicant has made possible that, in part of the criminal and criminal provisions of penalties, if, of course, the provisions of this law are not only legal but also a natural person or craftsman. Furthermore, the SDP Club welcomes the amendment of the proposings relating to the recognition of the responsibility of units of local self-government, so municipalities, cities and counties because they have the responsibility to provide financial resources for the conservation of the environment and have the obligation to verify the credibility and completeness of the data by the obligors, the environmental pollution register. So to recap these main four segments in which this law brings benefits, that is, this law will primarily contribute to the better preparedness of operators to prevent major accidents in devices containing dangerous substances. Therefore, the inspection control system will be improved in such a way as to introduce stricter standards for environmental protection and, above all, for plants where dangerous things such as pharmaceutical or chemical plants are found, the existing regulation of environmental impact assessment procedures will be improved, thus introducing a minimum duration of public debate on strategic evaluation in the process of adopting spatial plans for 30 days, so far it has been 15 days. For certain public and private projects it is prescribed that the measures and monitoring programme of the environment are determined by the solutions to the acceptability of environmental procedures, the mandatory content for the authorisation to carry out the procedures to be issued under the Construction Act. That this law is good, that this law is an important step in improving the environmental protection system is also proof that there was no dispute in the public debate and in the debate on committees or there were no too many objections and therefore this law was adopted more or less, with almost unanimous approval of all those who participated in the public debate. And that is also proof that environmental associations, or civil society associations, are not any evil children who, by their unrealistic proposals, actually prevent the adoption of such laws rather than namely that the environmental associations of civil society are, above all, a partner to the public sector in making as high-quality legal solutions as possible. The SDP club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113549	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113550	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, a respected colleague and colleague. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act brings significant newspapers in the part of the prevention of major accidents that may result from certain industrial activities and the restriction of their consequences for health and the environment. It is, therefore, the transposition of the provisions of the Directive on the control of the threat of major accidents involving dangerous substances which further improves the provisions of the applicable law in the part which regulates the problem of the prevention of major accidents. In that sense and what Mr. Deputy was saying and that is to define the provisions relating to the obligations of the operator in the section relating to... in the prevention of major accidents and the need to draw up a safety report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that this will certainly contribute to the greater security of the functioning and operation of the industrial plants themselves and will tighten responsibility in the part relating to the non-implementation of the provisions provided for by law. What we consider should have been resolved differently in the law is, in any case, the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to define the deadline within which it will adopt a regulation which will then prescribe the conduct of the operator in the section relating to the preparation of documents that I mentioned earlier and which relate to the prevention of major accidents. What is not said in the introduction and I believe that it is very important that it is practically the same changes and additions to the laws and this morning's Law on safety in the coastal exploration of hydrocarbons we have made in the Republic of Croatia a new model in which the authorities of the Republic of Croatia will act when it comes to the possible pollution of the sea in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. In fact, these amendments to the law are practically released in a certain way by the Ministry of Environmental Protection in the implementation of an intervention plan for sudden pollution of the sea when it comes to possible pollution of the sea coming from research or exploitation platforms. In what way? So in the way we formed this morning, we proposed forming and likely the ruling majority will adopt the Safety Act in the OBD of Carbons, which will monitor and monitor such research and exploitation take on one new coordination and thus practically take responsibility for monitoring the exploitation and exploration of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. However, the plan for interventions in sudden pollution remains fundamentally regulated by this law and we have warned this morning, and I am warning it now, that it is not good that one such important document as the Plan for intervention in sudden pollution must be defined by two laws, both fundamentally and originally by this law, which is proposed by the Ministry of State of the Republic of Croatia and that the completion of this plan of interventions in the sudden pollution of the sea, which is defined by the law that we discussed this morning, which refers to the Security Act on Coastal Research proposed by the Ministry, but is now in agreement with the very co-ordination for security in the coastal exploration of hydrocarbons. This is not good or it should have solved everything in that law that formed this coordination or that we think is much better, the full regulatory monitoring and security and surveillance of exploitation and research should be defined by the home environmental law where it is formed and where the adoption of this plan is planned, where the headquarters is established, where there are headquarters in the county and that would be a better solution. This way, the Environmental Protection Act prescribes certain measures relating to industrial plants that have dangerous substances. We prescribe measures for all industrial activities in Croatia, except for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons that are regulated between the two laws, and that is what we in the HDZ club assess by a bad and bad solution. We support the fact that these amendments and amendments to the laws have introduced an obligation to develop a strategic assessment when changing the strategy of plans and programmes of all units of local self-government, and not only as has now been the case of counties and large cities but also of all units of local self-government and that is good, but when the government and the ministry propose such an amendment, then it is a pity that they are not systematic until the end of the change, so they still leave doubts. It is said in Article 64 that there is no obligation to make a strategic assessment when it refers to small areas. What does that mean, a small surface? The small area for the City of Zagreb is perhaps 50 hectares, and for a single unit of local self-government is one third or half of its area. Therefore, it would be good, sir, that the Government and the Ministry, until the vote on the law itself, explain what this means, is a small area in a single unit of local self-government, and that means a small change for which no special changes should then be made, to make strategic environmental impact assessments and its implementation. Another indetermination of the law, which he warned me about, seems to me to be the Committee on Legislatives, which is that this law practically formally but not de jures, so de facto that, and deiures do not, we abolish the State Institute for Nature Protection. We are renaming this law to the Environmental Protection Agency at the State Environment and Nature Protection Agency, and we are practically taking over the affairs of the State Institute for Nature Protection on 15 April of this year when the government decided to reduce the number of institutions, institutes, agencies in the Republic of Croatia and the institutions and, among them, the Government's decision to join and add to the State Environment and Nature Protection Agency. We are now establishing this state agency through these amendments to the law, but it is not clear to me whether it automatically means that it stops functioning of the State Nature Protection Institute, and if this law should have put out of force certain provisions and articles from the Nature Protection Office or parallel to this law to discuss in the Parliament and the Nature Protection Act, which would then be abolished by law, do so, to amend the organisation of the Nature Protection Office. That seems to me to be a mistake of this law. That's where the Legislative Committee intervened. I'm not sure, I'm not a lawyer, I'm not sure that it's settled by now, but in any case, it seems to me that we now have the State Environmental and Nature Protection Agency and the State Nature Protection Service, so it would be good to get rid of it in the meantime, too, or that Mr. Deputy, you answer me that if I'm wrong. Furthermore, the HDZ Club will also propose an amendment to the amendments to this law to Article 51, i.e. Article 225 of the Law which lays down the conditions for the conduct of environmental protection inspection tasks. In addition to university or graduate university studies, which are listed in Article 225 and further add both electrically and economically, respectively, to the amendments and amendments to the laws, it is envisaged that, in addition to university or graduate university studies that are listed in Article 225. And we suggest adding also geoengineering or environmental engineering. Therefore, at the Zagreb Geotechnical Faculty, study programmes for geo-engineering and environmental engineering are implemented and it would be good for qualified experts at that university who absolutely have qualifications and knowledge that they can carry out environmental protection inspection tasks to be included in Article 225. The environmental law and that they can carry out these tasks as much as they are competent to do so and they get the necessary knowledge at their Faculty of Geotechnical Engineering at the University of Zagreb. And one more thing that I need to know. Since we are amending the Environmental Protection Act, two important documents come from this Environmental Protection Act, which is the Strategy for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Croatia and the Strategy for the Management of Sea and Coastal Areas. Mr. Deputy, the deadlines for both strategies are close, it seems to me another twenty days, and as far as I know we will not see it so quickly in the Croatian Parliament, certainly not in the term of office of this government, not one or another strategy. If so, it would be correct for the Government to prescribe these amendments to the law and the real deadlines in which the strategies will be adopted if the Government failed but certain other activities were implemented, and those resulting from the Environmental Protection Act have not been implemented and we know today that there will be neither, nor any other strategy adopted by 19 July, when the Environmental Protection Act should have been adopted, then let us be to the end and correct and amend this opportunity and those articles that prescribe deadlines for two strategies that need to see the light of the day in twenty days. A team, Mr. Deputy Minister, that in our opinion at the Croatian Democratic Community Club and two strategies and a Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Croatia and the Marine Environment Management Strategy were the previous issues for the implementation of the project. This is what we've been talking about all day today, the hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation projects in the Adriatic. I am convinced that by discussing and adopting the Croatian Parliament and one and other strategies, we would certainly do a transparent process of public competition, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons because they would be manifested through the Sustainable Development Strategy, on the importance of tourism, on the importance of maricculture, on the importance of fishing in the Republic of Croatia, and all three activities are closely linked to the possible research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. Therefore, the Sustainable Development Strategy would in any case be evident on the need to develop an economic justification study, i.e. the fissibility of a study on all the benefits or risks that carbon exploration and exploitation bring us, and not to say that the Strategy for the management of the marine area would clearly define the treatment and be the basis for the Environmental Protection Act when we talk about the conservation of the biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea and the other part of the Law on Pre-Brand Research, because this law would fully rely on that strategy that would sign all of those resources that we have in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to protecting the Adriatic. And I think we have a lot of them, and that law we were already talking about this morning, the Law on Occupying Research and Hydrocarbon Exploitation, which does not recognise these resources, is already going into the formation of the latest coordination which, in my opinion, does not have much justification in the former formation of Croatia's state administration and state bodies in the Republic of Croatia. So, if the ministry really accepts these few hints that I have given and when it comes to the amendment to conducting inspectorial tasks in the area of environmental protection, when it comes to the deadlines relating to the creation of a strategy for both the sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia and the Strategy for the management of the maritime area, then the Croatian Democratic Community club could support such a law. This is how I believe that we close our eyes to the fact that today is June 30th, that we still have 19 days until the deadline, that another 2 weeks of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, that we are changing the law and that in law we leave the deadlines that we are now aware that we will cross them and that we will not keep them, and that in that sense, it would be good to support such information, proposals, especially the proposal relating to the state-run Croatian Environment and Nature Protection Agency, which would undoubtedly determine the status of the National Institute for Nature Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113551	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Stjepan Milinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleagues Bačić, let's agree that it is necessary to prevent potential disasters and ways of handling them on such occasions and with the aim of preserving the environment, of course, which is in the wider European frameworks of our beautiful and well-preserved. And certainly regarding today's debate, you mentioned the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, but I would also like to say that we in the continental part have the same thing to say about the exploitation of hydrocarbons because I come from the area where it's most exploited in the continental part, and we keep warning about all the harmful things that we know from our own senses, and from those rotten sulphur hydrogen eggs, that I don't say lively we keep warning. But there are always studies that are done there and presented they're always great, not to mention those wells where God knows what to do. And that Molve 6 on which it was and the parliamentary question wasn't exactly a clear answer. Now, look, in these circumstances, this article is coming too, and I'm particularly caught up in this article amending the Government's amendments where the responsibility of the local self-government units for the obligation to register pollution, etc. I've interpreted it now as another obligation, another injunction. And when it comes to that hydrocarbon exploitation fee, you see, we're all there that are participating the harmful we've lost 30% of our income somewhere. And the government, somewhere in the government's cash register, was able to handle it. So you see how he cares, you should, surely this will be a financial burden for these units of local self-government where this is happening. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113553	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113554	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Milinkovic, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the draft law, has made new amendments to the obligation of units of local self-government, i.e. not to prescribe but to lay down criminal provisions for units of local self-government which do not comply with the protocol on the release and transfer of pollution and do not contribute to the quality establishment of a register of environmental pollution. I believe it's a commitment to be made by the local self-government unit. Whether or not it is necessary to impose a penalty or not I am not sure, the more environmental inspectors exist, there are all those provisions of the laws that allow the ministry or the competent inspection to do so and without it so spotlessly delivering units to local self-government. Although this should also be said to the local self-government unit, it is certainly in the interest to determine exactly the pollutant to which it pollutes the environment, it pollutes the air. On the other hand, we should certainly support that intention to tighten responsibility when it comes to making a register. And on the punishment itself, I'm not sure that it's necessary, the more the units of local self-government from the Waste Management Act, and the Environmental Protection Act have huge obligations that they don't carry out anyway, and much of it is not just because of the lack of funds but the completion of plans at higher levels say... etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113555	Thank you. Mirela Holly, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113556	Dear colleague, yes, and I have noticed that this law contains a schlamper with regard to the Environmental Protection Agency and that at the beginning of this law there is a talk about the Croatian Environment and Nature Protection Agency, while in later articles there is further talk about the Environment Protection Agency. Therefore, the intention of the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bring together the State Institute for the Protection of Nature and the Environmental Protection into one body, i.e. the Environmental Protection Agency. And in order to make such a thing possible is not enough just to make certain changes and not especially in such a tricky way in the environmental law itself, but it is necessary, of course, to amend the law on the Environmental Protection Agency as well as in the Law on the State Institute for Nature Protection as well as in the Nature Protection Act that you finally mentioned yourself. Let's not talk about sublegal regulations that are related to this issue later. I therefore suggest to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that its amendments resolve this misunderstanding, since the term does not apply consistently throughout the law, here I will mention it specifically. I think it's article 30, just a little bit. Mostly in my debate, I will mention the exact provision of this law where it is seen that there is actually inconsistencies in the law itself, that is, Article 35.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113557	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113558	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Holly, we have talked about this, and I have talked about it on the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, I warned the Ministry that it would be good to have the debate define an amendment which will cover these changes within the Environmental Protection Act, but in my view this clearly points to amendments and other laws primarily of the Nature Protection Act, which defines the obligations and activities of the National Institute. I'm not, I'm not sure it's going to work this way either the agency or the office. And not to say that the government has already decided on 15 April on the accession of the agency, so here I call on the Ministry not to rush the vote of the law but to postpone the vote on the law and until then to make an amendment to which one and the other will be resolved and then to go with the amendment of the Act on the Protection of Nature by an urgent procedure, because it is the only way for this agency to normally function and to satisfy everything in a legal sense. You are right and you have noticed that it is intended to change the agency but that in the text of the law it has not yet been recognised but is still available and listed by the Environmental Protection Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113559	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Sonja König, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113560	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of our Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Here is the proposed law, as we have already heard in the introduction of a respected deputy minister, and we are actually harmonising it further with the EU's gains. More than 10 Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council contain this law, more than 10 Directives are incorporated into the proposal of the Environmental Protection Act. One of the major changes proposed by law and amendment to the Government is as my predecessors have already mentioned in the policy of preventing major accidents, the role of NGOs and certain new obligations of units of local and regional, or regional self-government. As regards major accidents or their prevention, the law provides for certain duties and obligations of operators, i.e. legal and natural persons who oversee or carry out economic activities related to the burning and burning of waste. The operator is obliged to establish the possible presence or presence of dangerous things and to draw up a document in writing which will establish its policy of preventing major accidents and ensure appropriate implementation of that policy. The policy of preventing major accidents brought by the operator must be as envisaged by the proposed law to ensure a high level of protection for human and environmental beings by appropriate means and management systems. And under the proposal of this law, that policy must be won and it is due, in fact, to the operator to establish the consent of the ministry. This seems to us in the HNS Club as a good proposal, as one good solution, because it prepares the operator in advance or contributes to the better preparedness of the operator in preventing accidents and, of course, endangers human health. As regards NGOs, the proposed law significantly increases their role, i.e. one newspaper is being introduced. a provision under which associations have the right to apply legal medicines and in procedures in which they have not participated as an interested public. Such a provision has been welcomed and, of course, the NGOs that there are indeed many in environmental issues and whose number is growing year by year, although we will actually know their real number at the end of the year when we will see the first results of the new Association Act. However, according to data from the Ministry of Administration in 2012 a total of 853 NGOs were registered in the Register of Associations in the Republic of Croatia, of which 472 Associations for Nature Protection and 381 Associations for other environmental activities. All those from now on or from the entry into force of the Environmental Protection Act may, although they have not, for example, participated in certain proceedings in the capacity of the interested public, submit legal medicines. And this is about the kind of influence, supervision and actually the participation of the NGO sector and civil and civil sectors, a big step forward for us, and we certainly welcome it in the HNS club. We also welcome the intended obligation or sanctioning of units of local and regional self-government unless they carry out a full, consistent and verifiable verification of the data delivered by the obligors in the environmental pollution register. The environmental pollution register is a reminder of a set of data on sources, quantity, method and place of release and disposal of polluting things and waste into the environment. The new, i.e. this bill provides for fines for local and regional self-government units as well as for responsible persons in those units who do not carry out a data check and do not respect the prescribed time-limit of data delivery in the environmental pollution register. Local and regional self-government units must, in our opinion, be more involved, have greater responsibility and influence on all environmental issues. It is also clear that the ministry should count on local self-government, communicate with them, respect the proposals of the initiative, as well as the units of local and regional and regional self-government need their role in our opinion more seriously, as this has often not happened in recent years. It is a catastrophic fact and worrying information that in the Republic of Croatia, other than Sibenik-Kninska, no other county has a valid environmental protection programme. This programme is based on the Law on Environmental Protection every four years and is obliged to bring in both counties and large cities, but they keep failing to do so at the head of the City of Zagreb, which adopted the last environmental protection programme in 1999. So, the City of Zagreb and other cities and counties should urgently adopt an environmental protection programme. The same was true of waste management plans. Of the 22 large cities, 17 of them have brought a waste management plan. Out of the total number of municipalities, 185 made these plans as little as 50%. In addition, the report on the implementation of the waste management plan brought 46 cities and only 81 municipalities in our country. Therefore, our units of local and regional, or regional self-government, despite the clear provisions of the law, despite inspection and potential fines, avoid the adoption of documents relating to environmental protection. It may help to resolve this ignoring of the law by introducing similar provisions proposed by the Government's amendment to the environmental pollution register. It provides for the already mentioned fines and responsible persons for certain failures, failure to comply with deadlines or not to comply with the provisions of the law. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, I ask you to consider this proposal or a possible solution. But just passing a document, of course, is not enough. The success of implementation of integration, environmental protection in sectoral policies lies with the implementation of concrete measures and activities as well as in the control of their implementation. The fact is that the environment is the fundamental resource of all sectors and that it is only by preserving and protecting it that it is possible to ensure long-term sustainable development for which our Croatia has been identified. To that end, we all have our own actions that affect the preservation of nature daily. It is an opportunity to look around us now and think about what we have done today as individuals and to make it possible for us to help preserve the environment or even better what we will do. Thank you very much. The HNS Club will support the proposed Environmental Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113561	Thank you. We have one replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113562	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues of König agree with you that further efforts should be made, great efforts to protect the environment, it is undeniable. And in that sense, you talked a lot about local self-government units what their role is and how much their influence should be, so you talked about that part about sanctioning what your colleague Bačić was talking about, and he made it very clear. But you told me one very interesting thesis that units must have greater influence and must be experienced at all these levels as an equal partner and believe that units of local self-government. I come from such an area where all kinds of things happen about the impact of harmful environmental impacts, and in that part, great efforts are being made. But certainly not at all levels of the unit experienced and understood properly. And in that sense, about the exploitation of hydrocarbons, I want to say very clearly in this place that the units of local self-government don't feel right at all. They're always studies, and to be clear, we follow them, we control them, they're always good, they're perfect, and the epidemiological data says that the pain of malignancies and other diseases is completely going in the other direction. But look when those funds are from the hydrocarbon exploitation fee too, then we've been damaged by the last regulation by 30%, and the state budget has gotten 150%. Well, it's also a way to experience these units of local self-government that they can invest in the quality of life in their own field, the preservation of the environment, the healthier life of children and all others, and I think that's one approach that should be accepted if we're even. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113563	Thank you. My colleague König's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Milinkovic, of course, must have a greater impact on the unit of local, regional and regional self-government, but that impact must be earned in some way. If they don't respect the law and their obligations, then they're certainly not taken seriously. That's why I'm calling again and I trust your community to develop an environmental protection program as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113565	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113566	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that I will support the adoption of this law, because I think it is a quality document that should be partially corrected. I have already talked about some things, and there is this discrepancies in the provisions of the law relating to the Environment Protection Agency, or the Croatian Environment and Nature Protection Agency, so I think you should make one more complex analysis of both ultimately and those laws relating directly to both the Agency and the State Institute for Nature Protection and the State Nature Protection Department. I'll start from the beginning of the law. The fact is that this law is in line with the protocol of the Barcelona Convention in the integrated management of the coastal area of the Mediterranean, and of course what is a Croatian obligation is to adopt a strategy for the management of the Adriatic, i.e. to say by full name, the Strategy for the management of the marine environment and the coastal area. Of course, this strategy should have been the basis for making a decision at all about whether it would go into the process of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. Unfortunately, we saw that no logical and common procedure was followed, but that everything was upside down, so I would ask that in the final word of the respected Deputy Minister, please contact the representatives and inform them when the Strategy for the Management of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area will be delivered to the Croatian Parliament and when we will have the opportunity to discuss it. Therefore, when we talk about Articles 3 to 5 of these articles, the State Institute for Nature Protection or the State Institute for Nature Protection is abolished, it is associated with the Environment Protection Agency in a new body called the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency under this law. I'd like to point out here that I don't think that's the wisest solution. In fact, I think it would be far more appropriate for the government of the Republic of Croatia to stick to what was drawn out in Plan 21 and instead of joining the National Park Agency. I remind you of the plans that were present at the time, or which we eventually incorporated into the Nature Protection Act, which never saw the light of day or entered the government procedure. In fact, a single body covering 19 public institutions for the management of protected areas of nature should be created by the National Park Agency, namely national parks and nature parks, together with the State Nature Protection Institute. The National Park Agency, I will remind myself, should have established a single system of management of these protected areas and its establishment wanted to improve the situation in the system of management of national parks and nature parks in the Republic of Croatia, which unfortunately is not good today, as the State Review report made in our national parks pointed out in the end, and could be read in that report, read that what was planned at the very beginning of the work of this Government was not only justified from the position of nature protection but was explicitly justified when we talk about the economic aspects of governance of protected areas. Unfortunately I say the government has given up on it, now something's messed up about the merger seems to me accounting at national parks and nature parks, it's not going as well as I've gotten the information and I'm sorry that it happened, I think we've lost an unnecessary amount of time and that the system could already be made in a much more quality way. In fact, no hot water should be invented, we as a model took the model of the National Park Agency in the United States, which is the best and most effective model of managing protected areas. Of course, the current model is exhausted, dysfunctional, it's expensive and you can't have a quality nature management policy unless you have a strong and stable financial instrument that will allow you to finance exactly nature protection policy. We wanted to create, through the National Park Agency, the very quality financial instrument that would amount to nearly 500 million kuna on an annual basis, which is not small or money, and through this money could certainly be financed by a lot of priority projects from the field of nature protection and based on the National Strategy and Action Plan for the Protection of Regional and Biological Variety, which is unfortunately almost not implemented at all. So what the National Park Agency would bring, of course, was to send that key financial instrument. In addition, the rationalisation of operations at all levels would be implemented through the integration of general and common jobs in one place, the creation of a single procurement system, the unification of all protocols and procedures, the construction of a single IT system, the establishment of a single internal establishment of all national parks and nature parks, the new classification of jobs in order to allow for greater flexibility of jobs and the possibility of progress in the service, the creation of a single nature guardian service, and the creation and conduct of a single management policy of these areas, which is unfortunately not the case now. The National Park Agency should have prevented the irrational spending of funds from certain public institutions managed by the most exposed tourist parks, which resulting in a huge profit that is very often not fully spent. I'm afraid that's not what I'm saying. Speaking of the Environmental Protection Act, we see that, of course, we have compliance with certain directives and related to them and certain corrections when we talk about inspections. And if it is already going in the direction that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to reduce the bureaucratic apparatus and to merge certain institutions, I believe that we should also follow the example and model of the United States regarding their inspection service. And that was kind of a slightly longer-term plan for me as ministers in the area, which was supposed to bring together environmental protection inspections with the Environmental Protection Agency, given the fact that the Environment Protection Agency is a fundamental base, i.e. the information system of all environmental data, and that first all the data on certain environmental situations comes in. And that it would be normal and logical that environmental protection inspection can react as much as possible to any information that relates naturally to these things. Given that the environmental information system is extremely important when we talk about the European dimension of environmental policy, I think it would be a quality step in the right direction. Of course, I support what is related to raising the quality of the strategic environmental impact assessment and the greater potential for influence, i.e. participation in environmental protection procedures for the interested public. I think it's a high-quality step forward but I have a certain small doubt, it relates to Article 22 which stipulates that the ministry changes or complements the solutions to the uniform conditions of environmental protection every 5 years under official duty. I would like to mention that when we talk about the best available techniques, i.e. the best available bats, best available techniques, that today the technology of environmental protection is changing quite quickly and that in my opinion, the validity of a solution to the uniform conditions of environmental protection, i.e. an environmental permit of 5 years, may be a little too long for such a thing. In short, these are my own observations on this bill. As I mentioned on the Committee on Environmental Protection, it may be necessary to consider adopting a new law since the number of articles amended by this law is quite large.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113567	Thank you. Thank you. Final Deputy Minister, here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113568	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Most of the topics were related to the Marine Strategy, so I'm going to answer that question first. In fact, the Marine Strategy is in the final stage of production, divided into 4 phases. The first three stages are over, the last phase is monitoring. We've called a competition. The tenders have just been held for the purchase of equipment and our deadline is set on the 10th month. We will stick to it, and we have given our sides in writing to the European Commission and the obligation to complete the development of the Marine Strategy by the 10th month. It was the Marine Strategy that referred to several of your issues, namely what you said about the waste that we have taken, which we do, that I think is exactly making such a sea strategy for coastal management and the marine environment exactly is something that will bring about major changes later in further work. What we said about the agency, Articles 3, 4 and 5 state the short name of the agency. Meanwhile, a government regulation on the establishment of an agency has been passed, and we agree that the Nature Protection Act should be amended. For the next two weeks, the Nature Protection Act should also be found at a public hearing so that we can coordinate it. As far as the amendments are concerned, I think we've already discussed this on the parent board, we don't see the problem, we've agreed to it so that, during the adoption of the amendments, I believe we'll accept it. Regarding the question of why solutions are not automatically removed after 5 years, we simply think it is important to give operators the opportunity to comply with the best available techniques. So it doesn't mean that it will automatically extend, it won't, but it will simply give the opportunity to comply with the best available techniques. I don't know. I mean, let's just forget about it. If I'm not here, I'm here for further questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113569	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. We're done for today. Tomorrow we will continue with a joint discussion Interpellation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of laws and strategic documents relating to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea and the Interpelling of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the verification of the hydrocarbon research and exploitation project in the Adriatic. I wish you a pleasant extension of the day until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113570	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 848 The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments within the business period and became an integral part of the final draft law. The amendments were also submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. I would like to ask Hrvoje Dokoza, Deputy Minister for Environmental Protection and Nature to show about the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives No. Article 3
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113571	The President-in-Office, the honourable MPs and the MPs of the amendment shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113572	He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 2. of Article 13 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113573	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113574	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 3. of Article 61, 63 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113575	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113576	Thank you very much. Amendment No. Article 62, 64.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113577	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113578	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment No. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113579	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113580	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. We have exhausted the amendments of the Legislative Committee, successfully. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club, Amendment No. Article 1(1), second subparagraph, point (c) of Article 51(1), point (c) of Article 51(1), point (c) of Article 51(1), point
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113581	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-06-30-0.u113582	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. They're blowing some new winds. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I find it unanimous, with 95 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against, P.Z.E. law passed. No. 848 in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Dear fellow MPs, respected colleagues of the Croatian Parliament I have already seen my hand without announcing the start of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. I see Petar Baranovic, the esteemed representative raised his hand.
