ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118325	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Although I am asked how much this makes sense given the response of the MPs, I think I need to talk again about the Vinko Beck Centre, the Training and Education Center for the blind and undersighted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118326	Is there more? There is. My colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118327	The question of the Royal Retired Association. People paid their companies, bought from that insurance company a certain amount, for their pensions...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118328	What's security? Comrade Damir, is that insurance?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118329	Security, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118330	A colleague, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118331	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club because of the situation in the company INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118332	INA, INA problem. We'll do it at 9.10, then? Thank you very much. At 9.10, we begin. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:10 AM]] I'd like to ask the esteemed representative of Mladen Novak to state the views of the ORAH Club regarding Dom Vinko Bek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118334	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected few colleagues and colleagues. Although I have no doubt of the good intentions of this kind let's say new organizations of the work of the Croatian Parliament, I think the picture of this assembly illustrates the seriousness of our fellow MPs, but I also have to admit that it raises such a decision. After all, no one can ban MPs from looking for a break again during the day, so this will turn out to be a missed one, perhaps a good try but still missed. As far as the subject I've been looking for is the Center for Education and Education Vinko Beck, the Centre for Blind and Dissuasive Persons, I need to repeat this story we heard a few days ago. The decision to move the principal was made on August 31st, so only a few days before the school year began. Just for those who don't know, and most of them believe that they don't know that they're not just blind and weak-sighted persons, but they're also people with autism and intellectual difficulties. To these children and these individuals, every change in the environment, every change in the atmosphere, every change in the object creates extremely big problems, brings unrest and makes their lives more difficult, but also people who help them. We heard from the minister's statement, it takes 20 million kuna to rebuild the building. I'd like to know the basis of what she's come up with. At the same time, she found that the value of the building was 14 million kuna. Quite a flat-rate, but I think the answer to the question of where that story lies in that statement by the principal, and the principal said it was an attractive location. I think that's the point of everything that that attractive location stuck to someone's eye and decided to get to that location. Geotechnical studies have been conducted for two years to determine the condition of the building in Nazor. The find, watch out for two years, that's questionable then and what kind of experts they are. The report was delivered six months ago and the move-out decision three days before the school year began. There is documentation sent by the director to the ministry and would not believe the ministry lost the documentation in February 2013. Last year, 250 000 kunas were invested in this facility, or the arrangement of the courtyard and the playground. Apparently, the slide is the reason why it doesn't invest, considering whether it makes any sense to invest in the reconstruction of the building. But the glider was reportedly rehabilitated last year and rescheduled by the city. Let me remind you, in some other discussions we had and mentioned the State Audit report. So the State Audit report says that this is what the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has for 2013 and 2014 neutrious 70 million kunas, which means that this problem could have been solved long ago, and the problem has been known for 10 years. Ten years ago, and a decision like that was made a few days ago. And in the end, I have to tell the D.A.'s opinion that the alternative space absolutely does not meet the needs, is not safe for those persons, for those children, and that an emergency solution must be found. I ask myself, I ask the question to you and to the Croatian public, is this decision deliberately timed at the time of the Croatian Parliament's disbandment and at the time of the elections when practically no one will be able to react, everyone will be dealing with something else, and someone will come up with an extremely attractive space where the most vulnerable will remain unprotected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118335	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Damir Cain, Royal Security Theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118336	Honorable President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's a few days ago, I got an e-mail that literally reads, first I'm going to read it: I'm reporting on behalf of an association of cheated and disfigured Royal pensioners, i.e. raised pensions. Our problem is familiar to you, you have already raised these questions in the House in your time, which made us especially happy. The term of office of this government stands out, everything is being discussed except for our problem, so we ask for your help. We were free to put together a question for the prime minister so we could ask him. And the question is that they put together an estimated vote by an MP on behalf of the government has promised the Law on the collection of pensions that should be protected, for example, by their interest. However, the law is in 70th place and the profession and the public are now saying that the problem is resolved, that, for example, if a particular ministry took care of the solution. Now you're asking yourself if this law will come on the agenda. The Royal Society seems to me over the Royal Society was launched in the meantime by bankruptcy. The question is whether there are solutions to Royal Pension Insurance at all. It's all in court today. The economy ministry should be involved in this problem. It's 3860 people who are going to be out of a lifetime of severance. DUDI was to be included, but there was an open bankruptcy. So 3860 people can say they're going to lose their life of care. It is a wave of employees who have acquired an internship, who worked in state-owned companies, i.e. local self-government companies, for example the Istrian Vodavod or the port of Rijeka, and that I do not list everything further. What do we do? Is it possible to mean through bankruptcy or through this bankruptcy process to save at least something and save those pension benefits to those people? I repeat, 3860 individuals. This way from today's perspective, it seems these people have been deceived. Many have gone to early retirement hoping to enjoy under quotes enjoying these 400, 500, 600 kuna benefits, which they should have been compensated for a smaller pension, but that's what's going on. People are confused, they feel like I'm going to say it one more time, and the question is, is it even possible to help them? They were promised, unfortunately, that promise was not fulfilled. I have been quoting Royal Pension Insurance since 1990 the original Croatian model for the purchase of pensions by which the state-owned companies or institutions have been dealing with surplus employees so that the money for the severance payment would be paid to Royala, who then paid the pensioners monthly severance payment. So this is where they mention the 250 companies that have so far been using that possibility, because their entire amount of severance was recognised as tax expenses. In the spring of last year, they asked the state for help because they were no longer able to pay the part of their pension within the contract, and the management said they were willing to leave ownership and management to the state in order to protect the Institute for the collection of traineeships and the beneficiaries of the severance. The protection of 3860 pensioners has asked the government and five union centres that have warned that the life-time severance model exceeds the importance of the company itself and the owner. However, we have a situation that we have and the question is whether these people can be helped in some way today after the bankruptcy procedure has been launched at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118337	Thank you very much, dear fellow Cain. Dear Representative Petar Baranovic on behalf of the Reformist Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118338	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Reformist Club, DC and the New Wave, not just reformers. In the shadow of this drama that has been happening in Croatia in recent days with these unfortunate people in which, by the way, we have not lost face, thank God, and no conscience as a country. There is a drama happening with our people in the company, a company that no one would think could become such a stressful and traumatic space, sometimes Croatian economy's feather, probably the most tragic story of the Croatian privatisation of INA companies. To this announcement on behalf of the club, perhaps the last one in this meeting, I have probably decided on the basis of my obligation as a parliamentary representative to meet the demands of the citizens. We representatives are very much on the road, and then after a certain number of years we're more familiar with people on INA gas stations than neighbors. These days, several stops, appeals, requests from INA employees, someone speak, someone speak to the Croatian public, we are about to have a tragedy. What's this about? After everything happened with INA, so we need that privatisation case to be an example of what we never need again. These days of unrest among these people over the announcement that all pumps will go into a certain kind of franchise, because of the announcement and the requirement to sign new contracts with significantly lower incomes because of the very clear announcements that there will be no more employees of INA with some rights that have been correct so far in Croatian frameworks, but that they actually come to the wind level they are in today and where they are today and where most of them are workers in trade in Croatia. We privatized INA and it is common, I would say correctly, the sin of Croatian politics in a way that has resulted in the shutting down of oil processing in Croatia almost, almost entirely, by the discontinuation of bitumen production, by the enormous imports of elevators from the Mediterranean market, by the loss of jobs already thousands of jobs. There is still a relic of the relic of the gas station network with still the inscription on which we were once proud – INA, a few thousand workers who are starving for their tomorrow. On the basis of the revenue achieved so far, which was correct for Croatian opportunities, not in recent years, excessive but correct, planned their lives, took over certain burdens and credits, some of them are safe and in that population that we used to solve here in the Croatian Parliament. And the open question arises whether those who have taken over the INA are under the beating of those who are hostile to the INA, I say, with all the irresponsibility of Croatian politics, I responsibly argue, what will happen to these people? Thousands of families are in the deleted area. As a parliamentary representative, I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia who is still controlling a significant share of ownership that is more ambitious and clearer in protecting property rights and national interests related to the company INA, to make it clear that these people are sending a message to the extent that they can expect protection from Croatian politics and Croatian authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u118339	Thank you too, dear colleague. Here we have exhausted a list of club representatives who wanted to speak on different topics from the constituency. But it also works for us in the Croatian Parliament and for the sake of the Croatian public, I have to do what we agreed to do again. So this is the official beginning of the plenary session of the Parliament, 9:00 p.m. This is all recorded normally and is available to the Croatian public and will remain in the archives of the Croatian Parliament. Everything else is not in the part circle of individuals in the Croatian Parliament, even if it is the president of the Croatian Parliament. Each parliamentary representative decides on his priorities and his interest. Is security Royal possible to resolve outside the system arbitrarily? That's what I don't know, but the question has been asked, etc. So, we will stick to what we have agreed and that does not prevent any MPs, but it obliges me, that everything we do, we are doing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and that we decide in accordance with the Constitution, laws and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. That's all I can say. And now we'll continue on the established agenda. It is now on the agenda - Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of a Spatial Nature Park Plan Biokovo; The Proposer of this Decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The motion for a decision has been made. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading of the law shall apply when making this decision. These are Articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at this session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Minister of Construction, the spatial arrangement of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119936	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. We have before us a decision on the establishment of a Spatial Nature Park Plan Biokovo. Maybe I should take this opportunity and remind us all together this is from 2012. 7 the spatial plan of the area of special features that we represent in this House and where parliamentary representatives will have the opportunity to vote it and bring it. So let me remind you, we have managed to bring in two spatial plans of national parks, this is North Velebit and Plitvice Lakes, and of nature parks this is the fifth spatial plan. So after we managed to bring the spatial plan of the Vransko Lake, then Telašče, Žumberka, Medvednica is ahead of us here is the fifth spatial plan of Nature Park Biokovo. I'm saying this because it's good to know in the context when it comes to spatial plans, when it comes to procedures, when it comes to public debates, when it comes to the adoption process, then it's always said that it's slow, complicated, long-term. I don't think there are any municipalities or cities, so there are no units of local self-government or regionals who would not be proud to bring seven spatial plans into their mandate, and here we have here the seventh Spacious Plan of Nature Park Biokovo. It's a park of nature that was declared that way in '81. Year, '83. There was a spatial plan that was in effect until '94. A year. So, since '94. By this year 2015, Biokova space is not covered by a spatial plan which says it is impossible to issue, i.e. very difficult to issue appropriate permits and apply to the relevant EU funds especially when it comes to protected parts of nature. The spacious plan of Nature Park Biokovo's declaration is defined as covering 19,550 hectares. When the borders are detailed and through the analysis of the Institute for Nature Protection are now covered by 19 330 hectares and it covers the area of two cities, Makarska and Vrgorca, and seven municipalities – Brela, Zadvorje, Šedanovac, Zagvozd, Podgora, Tučepi and Baska Voda. The largest area of about 30% of the park area is covered by Zagovozd municipality. I have to take this opportunity and maybe say my impressions as a spatial planner but absolutely who the citizens of Biokovo is one very, is a mountain that speaks of this one dramatic situation between the sea and the height that rises and all those who bathe on the Makarska coast seem to be very simple and easy-to-be. You get a chance to hear every year that that's not the case. So visitors who are as buyers in the Makarska Riviera are moving to conquer Biokova already known in Japanese and that in fact every time the mountain rescue services are in a situation that they have to save someone. It looks very obvious and it's very simple to get to the top, but it's absolutely not so. The part of Biokovo Nature Park which is in the hinterland is much more pythomy, much more acceptable and this spatial plan not only sees this part that is beside the sea, which is therefore very interesting, but also sees the possibilities and the surrounding. In fact, there was a process in the area where people from their settlements lived and who were on the slopes of Biokova came down to the sea, the sea became an attraction, they were engaged in tourism, and that part was forgotten. That part was forgotten that it had lived for years from what Biokovo had been able to do. So Biokovo also allowed the development of agriculture that is now absolutely abandoned there but there is one activity that has been developing, and that is that from those deep pits that were in Biok's ice out, this ice was used during the period when there was no electricity and there was no food storage fridge. And today there are these deep pits that have ice, and all of this is forgotten in another way of life. This spatial plan also speaks of something that really needs to be taken care of, it speaks of the return of Biok's old values, the return to Biok's classical agriculture as it was, the return of livestock farming, and the activation of that coastal part of Bikov because we are watching and looking at this side of the sea all the time. When it comes to parks of nature, i.e. parks of special features, national parks and parks of nature always have a rough division, it is a zone of rope, i.e. a zone of fundamental protection, or strict protection, then a zone of moderate protection and a zone that enables use. When it comes to Biokov 18% of the area of the park includes this area of strict protection, 78.86% is a targeted protection zone and the area of use is approximately 3% of the park area. That's what it's like to see one big, big surface of the park. So this spatial plan enables the activation of a range of economic activities, as I have already said, is about agriculture, but this spatial plan allows for in these 3% and all other activities, so it also enables recreation, and craftsmanship, and rural tourism and therefore not only housing but also the economy. In our case, we are bound to try and achieve that is not the case, when some land is in the area of nature park or national park, then our citizens are in a lot of cases ready to say and talk about it we are on the reservation, we can't do anything, we are in a subordinate position compared to other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Bringing these plans, so this is the 7th plan since 2012 before the Parliament says it's not like that. So this spatial plan provides clear elements, elements by which houses located in the area of Nature Park Biokovo and are illegal and these are detected and found as such marked powers will be legalised as well as the houses of other citizens in the Republic of Croatia can be legalised. This spatial plan clearly defines the conditions under which housing facilities can be built, facilities intended for certain types of economic activities, which primarily means tourism. What I was trying to say at the outset was this, so back in the '60s, it was coming down from the slopes of Biokova to the sea and using the coastal line, and now the process is different. More and more is being built in the surrounding area, more and more are being built on the other side of Biokova for the simple reason that tourism has developed in another direction. When you come to the first or second plateau of Biokova and you look down then you see this coastal line that's quite built, but you see these settlements where in the 1960s people went to the coast line, that they're coming back, that they're new houses, that they're reconstructed houses, that they're houses with pools and that they're absolutely desirable for tourism. When it comes to some other elements that are defined by this spatial plan, then it is important to say the following, which is that there are about 1000 different pastoral dwellings that are allowed by this plan, and there are detailed conditions for their reconstruction. So they can also be reconstructed, can be used not only for classical housing but can also be used for tourist purposes. And what was on Biokov every time, that is, when I spoke about the spatial plans of the area of special features, the infrastructure was highlighted. On Biokov, this infrastructure is absolutely important and has a great role to play. It's important and has a great role to play for the next reason. When you go with the car and try to get to the top of Biokova it's one of these rather traumatic experiences. This spatial plan allows for the following, and this is already at the very entrance from the sea side of the space intended for parking and then it is envisaged that certain levels of tour of Biokova can be reached by vehicles that will be organised which absolutely gives the safety of all those visitors who come to Biokovo, but on the other hand, what is important is that and the possibility that Biokovo remains protected because any construction procedure that would be on those roads would absolutely lead to major problems in terms of nature protection. With this spatial plan we also allow the opening of several entrances on the side of the bypass so on the other side of Biokova. It is equally important that the following cable company, which has already been long for many years, was spoken of by a cableman walking from the sea side of Makarska, was planned with this spatial plan, that it was at any time when the spatial plan was passed ten or more years ago and it was built certainly would have been a few far less happening to these situations where people who opted to conquer Biokova in inappropriate clothing and clothing in summer months saved them. And here's a man who last year, there was a great search for him, a word about Polack still hasn't been found so that there are different theories, from conspiracy theories to maybe still somewhere on Biok's. This spatial plan plans the route for research and cableways on the side of the back for the simple reason why it is necessary first and basic to see the capacities and everything else. So the subject of research after research is not a problem to be defined by a spatial plan. When it comes to this spatial plan, this spatial plan will indeed enable its adoption to enable a series of activities that are ready and that are to be activated immediately. It is primarily about solving the entrances on the side of the sea or on the side of the mainland in such a way that it can be done as quickly as possible and that it can be simplified or made safe and easy to get to the top. When it comes to construction areas then, there was a great discussion in the public debate on construction areas, how many, whether they should be reduced, what is happening, all the construction areas from the existing spatial plans of the municipalities and cities were taken over by this spatial plan in their borders as such. However, a shift was made further, a series of spatial plans for the planning of municipalities and cities in relation to these construction areas had an obligation to adopt a urban planning. Making urban planning happens in situations where we are not sure what to plan for the end, and then we give it another step or we conclude that we need to study it again. We have studied these construction areas quite closely, quite in detail all the implementing provisions that are currently in force with the spatial planning of the settlement of municipalities and cities, and this spatial plan allows for the direct issue of building permits. In these building areas with clearly defined conditions, not from the very size of the plot, from the building coefficient, therefore, this adoption of a spatial plan also allows for the activation of these construction areas. When it comes to all other elements defined by this spatial plan through the implementing provisions, it is seen that they are quite detailed. We have not decided here to prescribe the obligation of any single urban plan of state importance regulation which allows for the simple reason why the law is that in construction areas we have quite enough elements that we can issue permits and we can prescribe proposals, and for some of the key things are already carried out urban competitions or will be carried out, so what could possibly cause some kind of opposition or some kind of discussion. The Park of Nature Biokovo after 25 years is a spatial plan ahead of this respected House, the ability to decide on it. It is extremely important for the economic and further development of the region in a way that activates the hinterland, and that the coastal line is further drained to the least possible extent. A lot of opposition caused a discussion about the boundaries of the Biokovo Nature Park. We when we were in a public debate then was part of a public debate referring to it. As you know, by virtue of the Nature Protection Act, that the border of nature park is determined by the competent authority, or determined by the Parliament, and the exact limits in digital form give us the Institute for the Protection of Nature which it has done in this case. And I can say that the dispute over the boundaries of Nature Park Bikovo is between two professions between geographers and geologists. Geographers Biokovo look at the geographical context and watch what geographical means, and geologists look at it in another context compared to the mountains in relation to the geological structure, so when you listen to the geographers, then they are absolutely acceptable to them, but when you listen to geologists, they would be very happy to expand these boundaries and to go to the sea in certain parts because what they have shown to us in certain conditions in the Makarska coast where drinking water is going, or where the water is not salty that it is water that dives from Biokova and it springs there. It is an extraordinary opportunity for me to have a seventh spatial plan to present to this respected House and to show that spatial plans can be carried out in perfectly acceptable conditions by public debate and everything else, that when you have good professional bases that it is much simpler then, that all you have to do is resist, and then when you resist you can really show seven spatial plans before this House. And that spatial plans are when it comes to areas of special features that should no longer be really those harsh words about people living there in reserves but even more so that life there can have an advantage and a quality spatial plan can be given conditions for development and such parts of our beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119937	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit. The first replica of the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119938	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, at the beginning and now in the end you said one very important thing. Namely, in areas with special features, this was independently about national parks, nature parks or some other areas, many of our fellow citizens feel the burden of their lives with many limitations and this takes decades. It seems to them like they're actually cursed that they live in those places and it should be the other way around. So living in such areas must be a blessing. They have what many others don't, and that is why it is very important to have a spatial plan as you set up the story of Nature Park Biokovo to provide such opportunities to enable, under the strictest possible conditions of nature protection or the environment, those people to live, to create, to be complemented with their environment. We have a situation especially when it comes to what you say to the surrounding area in this particular case of Zabikovje, a terrible process of depopulation. In this area, especially the one that includes the spatial plan itself, we have a whole series of villages that are completely empty where no one lives anymore where people come back to rebuild houses but only for occasional use. So if we were to resist now all the forces and all these units of local self-government, these two cities and municipalities that we're dealing with with, with the support of the country, this desert mountain-mounted mountain-mountan area of special concern must be for the state, it could be a great space where the added value would be created. Because the litoration of the tourist offer in the Makarska coast is critical. Therefore, all tourism in the Makarska coast is happening within a hundred metres of the coast, it is something that the infrastructure must no longer support and cannot. In this sense, it is very important for the surrounding units of local self-government, especially those outside the park's borders, to be involved in creating added value.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119939	Thank you very much. New replica, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119940	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. So respected ministers when you spoke in your opening presentation about the spatial plan of Nature Park Biokovo. You said the basic document for the creation of a spatial plan was the professional basis for nature protection. On this very professional basis of nature protection 5 municipalities and the town of Vrgorac have given you a large number of observations none of which have been adopted. So I want you to say once again to the public who can change the border of nature park, how it is possible that there are no names of those who have changed the border of nature park, but only the State Nature Protection Office stands and no comment of the municipality and cities has been adopted. When you talk about the victims of the people on the Biokovo mountain, you must know that the largest number of victims from the area covered by the Baska Water municipality and that is where you did not allow the entrance to the Biokovo Nature Park, or anything that is possible to give to tourists as information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119941	The reply to the replica of Honored Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119942	Thank you very much. Your Honor, the dissatisfaction of citizens when we are in a public debate mainly concerns the boundaries of the nature park. We've had our chances already in several cases and in several spatial plans. It's the same here, I repeat, the boundaries of nature park are determined in '81. A year. The boundaries of nature park are determined by the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament established it in '81. When it was established, it was not found on the bases but was descriptive. They've been descriptively transferred since '81. years on here. In the former Macarska spatial plan when Makarska had in its spatial plan these settlements that you speak of other than those that were in the surrounding area. Similarly, the boundaries of nature park were located and are located in the spatial plan of the Split-Dalmatia County and we have worked on the professional basis which is based on the Nature Protection Act for the purpose of a competent nature protection administration which is then from the borders of nature park which are published and defined in a descriptive manner, in these cases it has been crossed manually and is now crossed digitally and the entire coverage of nature park is approximately 30 hectares smaller than it was at the time when the borders were established. The new setting of borders means passing the procedure, passing before the Croatian Parliament as well as adopting and then going further into the spatial plan. It's our chance to see a spatial plan that was equally in front of this distinguished House. It was in 2005, it was about Medvednica, ready for adoption but then it went into the process of establishing the borders of nature park and in 2014 we brought it in after 9 years. But why are the topics even the boundaries of nature parks? The topics are for this reason what the distinguished representative said before you and that is that when people are in the park of nature have a feeling that they are, I will say a little harshly but that they are in some subordinate position, that they are not in the park of nature, that it would be easier for them to get permission. This spatial plan speaks of that not being so. The border of nature park can take the line to explain, perhaps, the line of one street. And now the following will happen that those who are in the park of nature will be able to get their license and those outside the nature park will not be able to get their license because they are not given an urban planning of the arrangements that is under the obligation of units of local self-government. So this spatial plan gave clear conditions and criteria for issuing permits and having someone in the nature park after the passage of the spatial plan will be able to get their license. And the theme of the border is always the topic of why I am, I won't be able to get a long plan. And I think we've done our job to show that when it comes to nature parks and national parks, it's not long to make plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119943	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119944	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, it certainly is necessary to welcome all the activities the ministry is working to adopt this spatial plan. The spatial plan is also brought among other things to protect natural and cultural goods for which a particular area has been declared, in this case, a park of nature. But it is also needed to be in agreement with the interests of the local population, which are primarily articulated by local self-government units. The fact is that what is not good in this plan, which is that of the 9 units of local self-government of these 6 disagree with this text or the Proposal for a spatial plan of the Nature Park Biokovo and these have two major comments. One remark goes towards a professional basis for nature protection, and another remark goes to the borders of the park itself. I agree with you that the law lays down the boundaries of the Park of Nature Biokovo, it is not disputed, but it is disputed that after that a large number of spatial-planned documents were adopted, spatial plans as former municipalities of Imotski, Vrgorac, Makarska, later Split-Dalmatia County, units of local self-government, when the borders in these spatial plans are in significant deviations from the borders of Nature Park Biokovo, which we today establish with a spatial plan. I therefore believe that, in that sense, or it was a mistake to adopt the boundaries of the spatial plans of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, or we should now, by this proposal of the plan, go in parallel with the amendment of the law establishing the boundaries of Nature Park and respect the truly justified observations of local self-government units that speak of certain settlements that are now within the boundaries of the plan, and according to their spatial-planned documents are not within those limits. That's why I think we should wait, settle the previous issue, and then go ahead and make a plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119945	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119946	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, we know as well as I do that the spatial plan when it comes to areas of special features is a superior spatial plan... the arrangements of municipalities and cities and the adoption of this plan will apply. These parts will not apply the spatial plans of the arrangement of municipalities and cities. Indeed, the units of local self-government that are located in that territory, I read in the newspaper that they have a problem, but after a public debate, after having received a notice that the remarks are accepted that the problem is borderline. In order to determine and see what it was about, we together with our associates two weeks ago, we held a big meeting where we invited all municipalities and cities, all seven units of local self-government and at that meeting I wanted to find out what the key things were, which are their observations, for which reasons would not be acceptable for them to adopt a spatial plan, and at that meeting we only discussed the boundaries. So we haven't discussed the remarks because then they learned that when I lay down the law when we accept the objection we don't send the notice, when we don't accept the remark, we send the notice. So someone who did, they were 2-3 units that strongly insisted on their observations to make it appear that all these observations were built in, and then they could see that they were in the spatial plan. So the discussion was only about boundaries. But I repeat again, the border is a problem when you don't have a spatial plan and then those inside the nature park feel like they can't get their licenses. When you have a spatial plan then the border is no longer a problem for the simple reason that the building areas located in the area of nature park can most normally reach their licenses, even more in some cases we agreed there, simpler now than if they were not in the nature park because we should wait for more urban planning. The spatial plan, just one sentence, isn't something that's carved into stone and that can't be changed. Once the border change procedure has started, if it is concluded that they need to be changed, it will change accordingly and this spatial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119947	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Do the rapporteurs of the board of the Croatian Parliament, working bodies want to present their reports? No, no, no. I'm opening a debate. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of the ORAH in the Croatian Assembly and the Honorable Representative Mirela Holy. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119948	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. At the very beginning of the presentation on the Proposal for a Decision on the Spatial Plan of Nature Park Biokovo on behalf of the ORAH Club I will ask the question. Why do we even have protected areas of nature like national parks and nature parks? Do we have them because of the development of tourism, economic development in general or do we have them primarily for the protection of certain natural and landscape values and characteristics of these areas, and only then because of tourism and the development of the economy? National parks and nature parks are extremely important for the sustainable development of a country, and these are particularly areas protected by the instruments of the Nature Protection Act, and sustainability implies a balance between the three pillars on which the concept of sustainable development rests, namely the protection of nature and the environment, economic development and respect for social justice. Sustainable sustainability is not easy to achieve, but unless we can manage protected areas in a sustainable way, the question is whether we can achieve sustainable development at all. I therefore believe that the key issue when we consider this proposal for a decision on the establishment of a Space Plan of Nature Park Biokovo provided this document, long-term development, the sustainable development of this area. At the ORAH Club, we believe he is not providing, and therefore we will not support the adoption of this document. This document also has some positive elements, for example, because it does not allow the setting of new telecommunications transmitters in the park area. It is also positive that it is considering solving the problem of management and treatment of waste water by biological methods, but it is not a positive difference between the real situation and extremely large appetites aimed at possessing space for building facilities that can hardly justify the real and sustainable dynamic development of the park, especially in the tourist context. And no one answers the question of who will finance and make the tourist infrastructure of this kind of megalomaniac nature infrastructure finance and make it economically sustainable and if the Nature Park of Biokovo really needs so many zone visitors' infrastructures, and these areas are actually isolated building areas outside the settlement. The text part of the plan determines that these zones are, by design, a certain spatial area and outside the building area, settlements within which visitors and information centres and information centres and info points can be planned for park visits, and these areas are intended for 10. At this point, if I haven't misread the plan two, the main entrance and flat Vlaska. There are a few more ruins but the rest is only planned for construction possessions. The applicant explains in the document that the visitor-information centres are located within the visiting infrastructure zone and represent buildings in the function of visiting and managing the park. Visitor and information centre located next to the main entrance to the park is planned with the following facilities: presentation and education hall with exhibition space, information point, souvenir shop, station service of nature keeper of the public institution park, storage space of the rescue equipment and space for the occasional stay of members of the Rescue Service, and with auxiliary work, storage and sanitary facilities, parking, parking, rest area, outdoor and catering service building. Smaller visitor-information centres are located next to secondary entrances to the park. It is Saranach, Gornja Brela, Zagvozd, Milici and in the zone of the visiting infrastructure Podglogovic trail and Strbina, Vosac. Content can be similar to the visitor-information centre located next to the main entrance, but with a smaller surface and size. But it doesn't define how much less surfaces and how much smaller sizes. And what's with all the infrastructure? Who's gonna keep it and what money? Is it not the main function of the park to protect biodiversity and landscape diversity based on the National Strategy and Action Plan to protect the landscape and biodiversity which, unfortunately, has been implemented in some 10% of the measures envisaged so far? Many have objected to the cableway, even developing a theory that this plan is brought only to enable the realization of the cableway. Is the cableman's place in the park of nature? We don't think it's a problem in the cableway if it's adequately integrated into the area and the landscape of the park, in a way that does not endanger the basic landscape value of the park if... renewable energy sources, and built from environmentally acceptable materials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But is this plan all the prerequisites set out? We're afraid not. It's not a disputed cable car, it's a controversial way of planning to realize that wire. On behalf of the ORAH Club, I would like to stress that it is extremely important that parks have their own spatial plan as a fundamental document of long-term sustainable development. This relates equally to the National Park Plitvice Lakes and the spatial plan of the Nature Park Biokovo. But it doesn't matter what these spatial plans look like, in which direction the future development of these areas will be directed. Regardless of some positive elements of this plan, and this is among other things a commitment to so-called. Traditional agricultural practices, although it would be far more appropriate for us to use the term sustainable agricultural practice in order not to underline conventional warfare and farming, as pasture livestock farming is an extremely important method of preserving the biodiversity of pasture communities. The undeniable fact is that the implementation of this spatial plan will not lead to the sustainable development of the park, that the proposal for this plan is megalomantic and that it aims to develop mass tourism in this unique park, which is in direct contrast with the idea of sustainable development of the park. We believe that this document should be returned to completion, and we should devote far more importance to the observations of experts who worked on expert bases for the development of the spatial plan of this protected area a decade ago and who were not consulted in the preparation of the final proposal for this document. Their names were used to obtain an alibi from the field of natural science, which is not good practice. It is about the doctor of science Maria Editi Šolić and the doctor of science Nikovrtković. In the ORAH Club, we are afraid that this plan will also have direct repercussions in terms of not implementing the Habitats Directive, i.e. NATURA 2000 and this includes payment of financial pens. Again, I remind you that we will not be able to implement all these obligations without a strong financial instrument for the implementation of nature protection policy, and in Croatia, around half a billion kuna is turning in this system. Unfortunately, we spend that money on purpose. The solution exists and is called the National Park Agency, which the government unfortunately gave up and thus continued the poor policies of the previous HDZ governments. I remind myself of the development of this plan started in 1996 when it was joined in a professional way, and experts from certain areas were hired to make certain bases. Over time, due to organisational changes to several levels, the overall production has been halted, and has eventually changed direction and sailed into political interest waters, and has separated from the profession and the protection of nature of the protected area of nature park. Finally, the zoning of space was carried out without respecting the necessary interdisciplinaryity that would guarantee the preservation of the fundamental value of the Nature Park Biokovo. After a whole series of years, all of a sudden during 2014 the whole procedure was strongly politically pushed and it got wind in the back under the motto better than any plan. In this way, it is targeted and designed in the same embedded non-refundable devastation of the area and nature through implementing provisions for the determination of visiting zones dictated by individual stakeholders and units of local self-government. The profession as she biologically as well as herself protection of nature was put into another plan, because it was only a distraction so-called. An investment swing on Biokov. The measures to protect the nature of the area as part of a national, ecological network, which was developed by the State Nature Protection Institute, did not provide for changes in purpose, i.e. the use of space except for example for the development of livestock farming that would maintain traditional grasslands, or their biodiversity. In the end, the same institution has no doubt named under political pressure a proposal for a spatial plan in which the inputs on flora and fauna have not been updated since 1996, and their summation in the plan has obviously not been made by an expert. The Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection also agreed on such a superficial and conflicting document that can have lasting negative consequences on the natural values of Nature Park Biokovo. Many contents of the plan, such as cableways, sports recreation zones, catering and tourist zones required a strategic environmental impact assessment. However, such a plan of procedure has ignored and allows for the implementation of these procedures without necessary, detailed analyses that would impartially assess possible impacts on landscapes and natural heritage and the justification of their implementation. In addition, some expert components of the plan and, in particular, the most important ones in the field of nature protection are completely superficial and insufficient to what they support and comment on the proposal for a spatial plan are addressed to the manufacturer and the manufacturer in the course of the public debate by dr.sc. Nikola Tvrtković from the "Mountain and Sea" Institute, Dr.sc. Marija Edite Šolić, who were one of the designers of the professional basis for the plan at the beginning of its production, and later throughout the further process of production were completely bypassed as the participation and involvement of experts in the field of biological sciences in the development team of the plan was bypassed. Now I'm going to make some of dr. School and Dr. I'm a realtor. Dr. Crescent. Šolic believes that fundamental natural specificities have long imposed a higher category of protection against the category of nature park and the declaration of the Biokovo National Park has led to parliamentary procedure but unfortunately not to vote in the Assembly. The conclusions of several scientific gatherings held between 1979 and 1999 indicated that Biokovo should be declared a national park and established a permanent monitoring on the already existing foundations and included Biokovo in the World Heritage List. Dr. Crescent. Šolić points out that the proposal of the Spatial Nature Park Biokovo shows the lack of basic natural ingredients and backgrounds, the confusing and incomplete interpretation of literature data, the unconnected extracts of certain literary data and backgrounds, the current professional and scientific results published in scientific and professional literature, the inadequate reasoning against the natural specificities of Biokova, and this proposed zone has a major impact on the destruction of the basic values of Biokova nature. Ignoring the natural characteristics and characteristics of the areas where the procedures directly threaten specific bio-taxons, their micro-populations and habitats and their implementation in space will be irrevocably lost. Air conditioning data were only given on the basis of measurements for Makarska and Imotski for the period from 1952 to 1989. The most recent data as well as the overall data from the climate and rain-based cells of surrounding areas affecting the climate and micro-climate of Biokova and for which long-term data and published works are available have not been taken into account. There are other winds in Biokov, not just storms and south as mentioned in the plan, fog and clouds are not mentioned at all. In the flora display, the data is mixed. There's no trace of the family or the alphabetical display of the taxon. Some plant taxons are listed twice. Some species are listed that have not been confirmed and those that have disappeared because their habitat has been destroyed. The professional basis for flora and vegetation, the floristic and phytocenological component of the area of Nature Park Biokovo and the contact zone of the park designed for the purposes of the development of the Spacious Nature Park Biokovo was delivered to the County Institute for Spatial Planning in 2001. Since then, a number of works have been published that have shed light on a significant number of biotaxons to modern cytogenetic techniques and methods, which have confirmed their bioviolence and specificity, which are not included. There are no listed plant communities that give Biokov specificity, as well as those that are still known only for Biokovo and contact zones of the Nature Park Biokovo. Areas of strict protection are minor. From the strict protection zone, habitats and known sites have been left out and real... plant communities listed in the floristic and phytoceneological components of the nature park area and the contact areas of the park built in 2001 for the purpose of creating a spatial plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This plan completely leaves out the natural specificities of the contact area of the park, for example. in the northern contact zone of the park... The visiting infrastructures listed in the plan are both covered by conflict with the need to protect and preserve the specificity of the flora and vegetation of the area in which they are therefore planned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Šolić believes that this proposal for a spatial plan does not establish an adequate ratio of protection and use of the area, but use is planned to damage the natural values and specificity of the Nature Park Biokovo. And the implementation of such a plan can permanently undermine the lost values that were crucial to its declaration and to a potentially higher category of its protection. And dr. Tvrtkovic warns that the data on fauna has not been updated for the past 14 years, their interpretation is questionable, the proposal for a zone differs significantly from what he has proposed, and no explanation for these changes has been found anywhere. The data on fauna are at least summed up in his opinion and obviously did not have an impact on the content of the plan's proposal, although it is a protected area of nature. It is evident from the composition of the expert team that no naturalist was involved in the design itself, which could potentially influence the direction of preparation and content of the proposal and consult specialists for individual endangered properties and habitats. It therefore concludes that his name in the plan was misused in order to formally satisfy the condition that experts of various profiles should participate in the design of the plan and thus deceive those who later gave expert assessments of part of the plan related to the protection of nature. It warns of the lack of data on the assumed impact of planned procedures in space, as well as the assessment of the impact apparently planned for a larger number of visitors. Neither has SWAT analysis been developed which could be informative to assess the way an expert team has proposed a spatial plan. Following everything previously said, the ORAH club will not support the adoption of this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119949	Thank you, too, dear colleague. We have a few replicas. Let's get this straight. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119950	Dear colleague Holly, I'm sorry that we testified to this speech of yours today because it's full of speculation and... Especially in the part concerning the revitalisation of the part of the space to which this spatial plan applies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have the impression that we can't see life from the Upper Town and the Tuškanac. If this is how you imagine the standards by which sustainable development should be developed then there will be no development anywhere. I've been pulling roots out of that area, my mother was born in the bandages, and I know very well what the area is, what its characteristics are, and how we've killed life in that space in the last 50 years. Yes, it's possible to find a whole series of grudges especially in this last part where you quote a few experts, but equally you can't, you can't, it would be terribly harmful to bypass the interests of the people who live there. Are we going to curse them? Are we going to make them move out? What kind of superstructure and mass-talking? So everything that's defined by this spatial plan in the total area is totally minor unlike what you say is the strict protection zone is minor, and it covers nothing less than $17% of the total nature park space. When this is added to a higher protection zone, which amounts to a total of 80 percent more, and that any event in the space including building infrastructure is possible to only 3% of this area, then it really is disproportionate to the number of your estimates according to the real state of this plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119951	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119952	My dear colleague because you're even listening to what you're saying? You're talking about 70% of the protected zone, so you know what we're talking about here? We're talking about a spatial nature park plan. Nature Park is a protected area in itself. So it's absolutely what you said about zoning completely I mean absurd. We're talking about 3% building area, it's not little for a space park, it's not little for a space park. What are we talking about? We're talking about 10 visiting areas that have construction areas involved. So just think about what we're talking about. I have quoted experts here who have been doing professional bases for this park and who have not been respected in the final appearance of the spatial plan. Doesn't that say enough? The State Institute also negatively assessed the proposal for nature protection and later changed its opinion under political pressure. Let's unplug that data, deny it. There is no problem at all, and please do not call for sustainable development because your party has shown by its work in this Government how much it holds to sustainable development. That's why you're pushing probably research and oil exploitation in the Adriatic, and the Plomin C thermopower plant and not talking about other beautiful sustainable projects your party advocates.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119953	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119954	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Holly, you said it was visible that the professional background was not professionally done and then you talked about the scientific analyses of the nun, Dr Edite Šolić. And how unprofessionally I will show you on one example of the Natura 2000 ecological network, which does not follow the borders of nature park, so let's say that in the Zagvozd municipality, this expansion of the ecological network area includes 50% of the central settlement of Zagvozd itself, then 4 kilometers of the A1 node Zagvozd highway with the HAC maintenance centre and the Zagvozd business zone and the existing Biokovka factory. Which is absurd because this extended area is not at all an area of preservation of significant species and cell types and thus you were actually right when you spoke in your presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119955	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119956	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, at the end of your debate, you say lost values with the eventual adoption of this plan, we miss the opportunity to gain higher values, more protection, etc. So what more protection? We don't have any protection at this point to say so. We have nothing there at all that could be realized and life and do real protection. What is common is I must admit to quoting most of those persons, of course I do not doubt their profession whose observations and opinions have not been adopted and then they are placed above all others within the profession because they are the ones who correctly define and of course you quote them in this way. This is not the first time that certain people who have not been accepted in their thinking are defined as the ones that are the most correct and all that the profession has done, which is the procedure that was meant to be done essentially turns out that they do not work very well. Therefore, the procedures are absolutely all respected, the deadlines are very respected so that indeed everyone could be shown, so that a good debate on the proposal of Nature Park Biokovo and now only in one situation di 5 to 12 suddenly someone is against because his opinions are not respected on this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119957	Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119958	So we can also look back at how much there has been an objection to the plan itself, just trying to find it in the text of the document now, and then you'll see how highly respected opinions were during the public debate. Here I have come to this, therefore, during the public debate on the proposal for a plan a total of 64 submissions were received, which recorded 220 opinions, proposals and observations of which 72 were accepted, 56 were partially accepted and 92 were not accepted. So you can see that the largest number is not accepted. So the question arises whether then a highly respected colleague of the profession's opinion was highly respected, and surely during the public debate on this document, a very large number of people who are natural professions who care about the sustainable management of such areas of nature. So let's not use the method... so those arguments that suit us we'll consider them, and those arguments that don't suit us will not be taken into account. Of course, the nature profession was to be consulted when making such a document.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119959	Thank you very much. And the 4th Last Replic, Honored Representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119960	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Holly. Well, one of the best ways to protect space is to safely make spatial plans. And instead of being a person who's a major policy in protecting the environment and putting the environment into operation, you're here and you're a priority against it. Your first word was that you didn't support this. In my view, this is the best way of protection and this spatial plan has been adopted after the procedure and after professional backgrounds and after the opinion of the profession. This isn't just about one profession, it's about complementary science, a complementary profession that needs to be put in place to keep it protected and to continue to be in the function of the people who live in that space. It was worth making sure that the space that would settle with people and that would bring them into service was heavily protected. What might also be good when we make plans like this that we may look up to neighbouring countries that are more developed and that may be taking more care of space than we, specifically the Republic of Austria, are their national park, which is more than this by the status of protection of space. See what activities are in that park, how they harm him and how they master him. If he had seen it, Francis Joseph had worked the road some 150 years ago to bring that space closer and even better to protect it. And by my judgment, it's not the best way to protect nature is not to do anything, the best way to protect nature is to put spatial plans in the legal frameworks of what can and cannot be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119961	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119962	Thank you very much. Well, I'm afraid your colleagues didn't listen very well and carefully to my debate because if they did, then you might find it quite illogical that the only two naturalists mentioned as plan makers are being fenced from what is written in that plan. And it's about a spatial nature park plan, so it's about a protected area. And of course it's about a space whose fundamental value is the natural characteristics and landscape characteristics of that space. Sustainable development does not mean only the development of the economy or the development of tourism or certain economic practices. It implies an equally balanced protection of nature or the protection of the environment in that area, encouraging certain economic practices but not that they dominate this and that they threaten a fundamental phenomenon that has led to some space being declared a protected area and, of course, to respect certain social values or social justice in that area. This involves sustainable development. If you're already talking about other countries' experiences, why didn't you mention which Austrian park it was working on? ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. I could tell you about the different experiences of different countries and how well-versed areas are managed, and unfortunately the Croatian governments both did not have much desire and will to advance the area of management of protected areas, and yet the protected areas are still stronger, such as Krk National Park and Plitvice Lakes National Park, are being used to serve as extended sheriff's hands of political powers. And there the money is drawn nicely, used for different purposes that have absolutely nothing to do with protected areas. So that's how different basketball clubs and stuff are financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119963	Thank you very much, dear colleague Mirella. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The club of representatives of the HNS and the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic are at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119964	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, directors, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this bill. For 21 years, Nature Park Biokovo has no document that would allow legal and plan development, sustainable development, social, economic, environmental. I thank the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning for finding this one among the seven spatial plans of protected areas in their mandate. Biokovo is one of the most valuable resources of Dalmatia, Makarska coast and Zagora. The adoption of this spatial plan will enable legalisation of buildings, reconstruction of thousands of shepherding dwellings, the closure of the research zone for the cableway, the resolution of tourist areas, and the possibility of expanding the capacity of tourists in the hinterland. Everything that has happened since tourism and hospitality on Biokovo is out of control, out of order and below the level that the nature park deserves. After all the years of riots, public debates of regular legal procedures a few weeks ago five to twelve, a vote against appeared. It's not unusual when we Dalmatians are involved, but also when elections are close. As a result, the minister held a working meeting with the mayors and mayors of the surrounding municipalities and cities, 9, where I personally attended and gave answers to all the latest ambiguities they had. It was primarily about not knowing the details. The only objection in the end that individuals suggested giving up the plan was the boundaries of the nature park. Borders completely copied from the Split-Dalmatia County spatial plan, which also the head of the county office explained to them fine and explained and exist as was said in the introduction since 1981. 1983. So when you want to be against it, then the arguments are obviously irrelevant. In order not to deal with the borders that have been subject to expert bodies, studies and long-term decisions, and not with anyone's wishes and policies, and can be changed in the future in a way that does not endanger the development of this area, please focus constructively on the content of the laws and advantages it adopts. No one in any part has been reduced in the construction plot only the conditions for construction. The permits can be obtained without the urban planning of the arrangements, i.e. the UP, which saves the municipalities significant amounts and time, and provides for two new entrances to the nature park. It's a completely wrong perception that protected areas of life have stopped and that it really needs to be stopped. I repeat this spatial plan is planned to continue living, working, building, legalizing, maintaining, putting into place shepherding apartments and the border is least controversial. If you want to apply for any funds of any kind, build a road, watership, anything you can't do if you don't have a license and you can't have a permit without a plan. It's been 21 years. We'll agree that everyone, that it's been long enough, that it's been too long, and that's why this spatial plan, I won't say at the last minute, has come at the right time that we can look forward. And yes, we will support this plan, I say once again, because he, among other things, is the preconditions for the construction of the Macarska-Strbin cable car. For more than half a century, it's a fairy tale wire for the Macarans. Today it is a real project and this plan is the most important prerequisite for its realization. That I'm a cableman, and I don't believe that there's anyone sitting in the House who's against her construction. Let's support this thing together, make life possible, but also order on Biokov. If, after all, someone thinks there's a flaw, we take them out without stopping them from developing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119965	Thank you too, dear colleague. Replica has a respected representative, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119966	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. You told Mr Gjurkovic that Biokovo was one of the most valuable resources in the area. I do not believe that the units of local self-government that are from that area and the city of Vrgorac, Brela, Baška Voda, Tucepi and Zagvozd do not know what they want and I do not believe that it is because of the elections themselves because the spatial plan is being made for the next 10 years. The remarks they made and you said you were at that meeting, we received them in writing are reasonable remarks and it is certain that they are holding back certain developments in their areas. For example, in Baška water, the settlement Topici simply divided into a village. When you mentioned a cable company in Makarska, of course no one is against the wire in Makarska, but you know that the first study, the professional base for the cablery, was built by the Zagvozd municipality, it is not mentioned today in that spatial plan, and if it is not possible to build it. It is certain that people in the area know very well what bothers them on the ground, which makes it impossible for them to develop on that ground both on the south side of Biokova and on the north side of Biokova. And we talked and we heard this morning that it was a nearly depopularized end of the Upper Brel itself and over Zagvozd further towards Vrgorec. And in that sense, what the leaders of the local self-government units themselves said was true that the two things they warned about and disputed it was the border of the park's eastern foundation. And why not if it is the basis for building a spatial plan of Nature Park Biokovo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119967	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119968	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow geologists and geographers cannot agree on the boundaries of nature parks at times. We have a document based on the county plan and you know that all municipalities and cities had to comply with the county plan. So that's the facts. We have the '81 border, descriptive '83. topographical. Is the problem when bringing the Plan of Nature Biokovo to go to change and change certain boundaries, supplement. Yeah, but what are we going to complement now, how are we going to ensure development? As we're going to do this wire that you're talking about and it can be really explored at this point because this part of the cableway that goes from Makarska, it's not only being explored, there are physibilities of studies, there's already a procedure that's headed towards the Investment Agency... in terms of strategic investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, in the first row, you need to come up with a spatial plan. So, a lot of steps have been made and ensured that this spatial plan can be brought on all the elements, to ensure this famous development that we're talking about and you're constantly talking about is not good at this, it's not good at that. Well, it's not good that he's not here. The moment something is brought, it can be added. At the moment that we now have this mess essentially real that exists there and that mess is essentially holding back the development and desire and the intentions and interests that exist, so let's make sure. After that change, neither the first nor the last to change, nor the law, nor the Nature Park Act and any law, but let's not stop it from passing anything. I have a feeling some people want not to bring it. Whether it's from the dissipation, whether it's from the election, but it's not good and it's one of the messages that we need to make clear. This brings development and space to the front. If we don't come up with a plan, we haven't done anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119969	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119970	Comrade Gjurkovic, you've said some interesting things I'd like to comment on with you. Above all, sustainable development and its concept are based on three pillars, on ecological, economic and social. And it's interesting that the critics who move and try to lay their feet on this important spatial plan are constantly potentiating the domination of one of those three pillars, not balance. What have we got so far? That's the second thing you said, so there's order in the space. Now we've had a complete mess and no protection. We had a situation that nature's park could not be entered at all, so its natural entrances would be closed or would actually be used illegally. We had a situation that Biokov could be completely uncontrollably run without any equipment, no protection, no monitoring, and we had human casualties. We had a situation that something that must be a blessing was a curse to many people. He should go to the Rascans and live there. It is easy to live in the city of Zagreb, in the center of the city or to hold and deliver from the upper city. Go to villages that used to count 150 people, see how many children are now in primary schools in Zavojana, Dragljani, Kozica. Almost no one. There's no life there. And that's why it's important to finally take a step forward that will allow the people who have stayed, and they're very few, really stay where they were born, not to cut off their connection with their homeland, not to cut down their roots with the land where they grew up. So shall we understand that? Who do we work for, people or stone? We've got a rock, it's grown into a drab, it's grown into a forest. Is that the future, is that the future of that end?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119971	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119972	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague, I mentioned in the debate that I was present at a working meeting where the minister spoke with representatives or chiefs and deputy mayors of municipalities and cities that touch and cover the Park of Nature Biokovo, except for one chief who essentially manipulates the... group. They all understood and accepted all the arguments very well, and it was clear to them what this brings to them, and it is clear to them that, possibly certain remarks and remarks will always be, they are normal, only they are not dominant, that this spatial plan provides them with development, and in particular every municipality and city simplifies not to adopt certain... in that part that includes nature park, enables them to develop directly at the moment that this law is essentially coming out and opening up space for them, what is crucial, which nobody has unfortunately talked about, and this is a common approach for the nine municipalities and cities together to discuss the development of nature parks, to discuss together how they will use and... and other ways to withdraw resources to ensure the nature park and citizens of their municipalities and cities development. No one talked about it, no one said we're neighbors, we have to do joint projects together. This plan can give us and this plan provides us with development. Let's do some projects together because we are aware of the need to invest in the Nature Park Biokovo. That's what's crucial and it needs to come out crucially of this law, that everyone sits together and discusses development, and not the border is on my plot or yours, and that's the message that this law essentially brings. Let's go together, gentlemen, sit down and develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119973	Thank you very much. HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119974	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. As has already been said, Biokovo was declared nature park in 1981 by the Law on the Declaration of Mount Biokovo. The law declaring mountain Biokovo Nature Park describes the border of the park. The law on the declaration is not a graphically established border of the park. Two years after the announcement of Biokova Nature Park in '83. A spatial plan of nature park and mentioning the area of Biokovo was developed and adopted. The designer was then the Faculty of Architecture in Zagreb, but the plan was in effect until '94. A year. At that time, the new Law on Spatial Planning puts him out of effect for reasons that he did not have the prescribed and published implementing provisions. It is good that the plan is adopted after 21 years of void and it is good that within the park or within populated accommodations in the park it is possible to build, issue building and location permits, legalise objects that are not contrary to the protection of natural values and encourage the development of tourism by building adequate visitor infrastructure. But the proposal for this decision has planned three new entrances to the park. In addition to the one planned so far, 10 new separate areas have been planned for visitors with adequate construction and municipal infrastructure. This plan also defines building areas within the park for settlements located in a park with a high level of detail where there is no need to adopt detailed plans which the minister also spoke about, where space users can actually go immediately to the issue of construction and location permits without any previous development of a smaller urban plan. For the first time, all herded herdsmen's dwellings and measures for their reconstruction and rehabilitation are recorded and all cultural goods are listed from archaeological sites, historical buildings and the like. The Split-Dalmatia County Spatial Planning Institute, the concept plan has well looked at the space and brought significant spatial-planning solutions. For now, this is actually the only spatial plan that I know of in the territory of the Republic of Croatia that has shown construction areas in the settlement in scale 1:5,000, and the construction areas are built on new vectorised digital maps. And I've worked on such a spatial plan for my community, so I know it's possible to issue an e-authority. Of course, the question here is why are local self-government units and why they resent this spatial plan and why they have given such a large number of objections that have not been adopted and strongly opposed its adoption. Following a public debate and objections from the public debate, almost all remarks are about two significant problems and failures in the design and adoption, and these are the boundaries of the park and the professional basis for the protection of nature made by the State Institute for Nature Protection. The importance of the '83 plan. The year from today's perspective is that he had graphically defined boundaries of the park. These borders were later and after the existence of a spatial nature park plan and mentioning the area of Biokovo Nature Protection Administration at the Ministry of Culture, and later at the Ministry of Environment and Nature used it as official. These borders are in the spatial plan of the Split-Dalmatia County, and are also used by the public institution Nature Park Biokovo from establishment to date. The exception was what counterpart Gjurkovic of the municipality of Makarska and Baska Voda said. However, the National Institute for Nature Protection is a competent professional body under the Nature Protection Act, which develops professional bases for spatial plans of the area of special features, meaning for national parks and nature parks, creating a professional basis for nature protection for the Biokovo Nature Park 2012 spatial plan. This professional background in the first row also contains a graphic representation of the park's borders and since then, in fact, all problems have arisen. The State Nature Protection Department does not respect the park boundaries of the '83 plan. the year or the border of the park from the Split-Dalmatia County spatial plan. He takes the right to interpret himself and draws the boundaries of the park according to the description of the Law of Declaration in '81. years that the Nature Protection Act doesn't really allow it. The Nature Protection Act of Article 126 states that the graphic part of the cartographic representation of the protected area is, in analogous and digital form, an integral part of the act on declaration. That's not really the case here. The act of declaration was adopted, with Biokova one inverted, i.e. reverse procedure was carried out as to why there is no statute in the law instead of accepting the limit of the '83 plan. as the only valid. From 14 to 18. The Act on the Protection of Nature is prescribed professional affairs and protection of nature by the State Institute for Nature Protection as an expert body for the Republic of Croatia. No article, not a single sentence, does not state that the State Nature Protection Office is responsible for interpreting the description of the park's borders, nor that it can change those borders. We know that it is the law, that is, this Croatian Parliament. The professional basis of the State Nature Protection Office is, in accordance with Article 124, an integral part of the proposal for an act declaring an area proposed for protection and, in that case, Article 125. The Act on the Protection of Nature shall be reported to the public and conducted by a public debate. This is very important. This wasn't the case with Biokova. There was no public debate. The State Institute without, for the protection of nature, established and changed part of the park's border without prior procedure through a professional basis. So, borders, this border has been changed against the law. The designer himself of the professional background of nature protection has seen their great error in changing the professional basis in 2013 and established a new frontier in the area of Zagvozd compared to the one established in 2012, meaning the year before. This information also has the State Institute for Nature Protection and the Proposer and they are undeniable. To my representative reading on the change of park borders in January 2013, Minister Zmailovic replied that the border is not changing, but is harmonising to the appropriate topographic bases and digitising. Since then, there is no need to be a great expert in order to visually, and in particular by overlapping these borders, conclude that the border that is now in the Draft of the final draft plan has been drawn up by the State Nature Protection Institute is not in line with the border of the '83 plan. And it shows this map that I have in front of me. Almost 30% of its total length of deviations are from the municipality of Zagvozd, in Bast, in Topics, the settlement of Čikes in the municipality of Šejanovac, the border near Žlib and Makar in the town of Makarska, the change of borders near Kotisina and the like. As far as the National Nature Protection Institute is concerned, the expert body best shows their voluntary interpretation of the border in the area of Zagvozd municipality, where the park's border according to the description of the Law of Declaration goes along the old route, so on. Napoleon's road, and the State Nature Protection Institute drew on the current new route of state road number 60, which at the time of the park's declaration and the law was not even in existence, was actually built after, and it was about the deviations of the border almost within 3 km. The crown of their new border establishment is the Botanical Garden of Kotisina, the monument of park architecture is listed in the text part of the plan. He only enters one part, and the other part is outside the nature park. Is that possible? Be careful, the Botanical Garden outside the Space Plan of Nature Park Biokovo. Imagine what expertise that is. The professional basis determines the area of the NATURA 2000 ecological network which I was saying, i.e. I replied to my colleague Holly in which it is visible that through the NATURA 2000 ecological network, the extended border is about 1.5 km in the Zagvozd municipality and affects the centre of Zagvozd as well as part of the highway nodes in Zagvozd or HAC warehouse in Zagvozd itself, which is actually absurd because this extended area is not at all a conservation area relevant to species and habitat types. The undisputed border of the park has been changed, as shown on this map. These are irrefutable facts based on the graphic contributions of this draft final proposal of the Spacious Nature Park Biokovo. And now something actually about this professional basis for nature protection, which is the creator of the State Institute for Nature Protection. It is indisputable and thus prescribed by the Nature Protection Act, that the professional nature protection services for the Republic of Croatia are carried out by the State Nature Protection Institute. It is disputed how and how an expert basis was made. Comments at the public hearing, mainly local self-government units point to a unilateral and unargumented approach in determining the area of protection within the park, three protection zones have been identified. They are controversial according to the fire community's remarks, fire roads of 1.6m in case of fires. We will knowingly destroy the Nature Park and will not allow its protection for fire-fighting. The settlement Topici in Baška Voda, which was located in space-planned documentation outside the border of the protected area in order to find a new design within the nature park. Furthermore, 300 hectares of farmland have been lost in the Baška Voda municipality and olive groves in the nature park are not to be processed in restrictive provisions. So, rip grass, burn weeds or cut branches. Imagine how unprofessional this expert basis was to say three years ago it was written that in the world of Yuri it was forbidden to tie fishing boats at a height of 1662 feet [1762 m]. In the municipality of Tucepi, 800 thousand square meters were taken away from the municipality and attached to the nature park to which the citizens of Tucepa were indignant, and this part of happiness is not the main source of their pipeline system. The National Nature Protection Institute did not take into account that after the announcement of the Biokovo Nature Park, there were 19,550 hectares of more space-planned documents of the county but also local levels in municipalities I spoke of from Brela, Baska Voda and others that have been applied for many years. The Botanical Garden of Kotisina I said which is an illegal day on the management of a company is excluded from the area of nature of Biokova. It is disputed that the expert basis has established protection zones without predetermined criteria. The professional basis does not offer an explanation to see the basis for which legal provisions are established by the zone within the park. That's what this spatial plan has, but it doesn't have an expert basis for nature protection. There is no sublegal act that sets out the criteria for the zone within the park and the professional basis should in this case have a form of scientific access and work which is descriptive and not relevant here. Furthermore, it is not known who the designers of the professional background are, I was just saying that it is for the State Institute for Nature Protection Matija Frankovic. The professional basis for nature protection was subsequently changed twice compared to the one in 2012. It was made in 2012 and changed in 2013 and updated again in 2014 and all without public debate. An analogy raises the question of why Article 125 is based. The Nature Protection Act has not conducted a public debate on the same one as the draft designer would participate. The edges of the northern side of the park cover 10 settlements of the Zagvozd municipality. The professional basis thus enabled the construction of only one cableway from Makarska, the requirements of the Municipality of Baska Voda, Zagvozd and Vrgorca are not respected but are listed only as a corridor in the survey. With that I said Zagvozd was the only one with a professional basis for building a wire. Of course we're not against building a cable in the town of Makarska. Furthermore, it is not explained that certain visiting zones are without criteria but can only be interpreted as a subjective approach by the manufacturer of a professional basis. 30% of the Biokovo Nature Park is located in the Zagvozd municipality, and only 0.6 hectares and 0.03 hectares are allowed there, respectively, while it is in Makarska and Podgorica 6.5 and 18.5 hectares respectively. The club of HDZ representatives is aware of the facts and needs of the adoption of the Universal Nature Park Plan Biokovo and appeals to the legislator to respect the observations of units of local self-government that have been excluded from any insight of the expert basis of the State Nature Protection Institute and to allow public insight into a professional basis that has been illegally amended 2 and 3 times, respectively, which is not in accordance with the law because, as I said, the boundaries of nature parks can only be changed by the Croatian Parliament. I propose that the adoption of a spatial plan be withdrawn from the procedure and that a re-public debate be held in the draft plan in order to correct the wrongly established border. At the same time, the expert background of nature protection should be amended. On the other hand, the question arises, "Who is it that this government is telling?" Its mouth is full of decentralisation on the one hand, at least to the Prime Minister, and it does not respect the serious objections of local self-government units in this area, which includes the Spatial Plan of Nature Park Biokovo. And this government doesn't really understand the principle of subsidiarity that the problem is actually solved where it came from these 6 municipalities, or the towns of Vrgorac and Makarska, rather than the politically managed parliamentary majority, which, regardless of our remarks, will make such a decision on the establishment of a Space Plan of Nature Park Biokovo will not help but prevent the development of a bio-biological and dental landscape. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119975	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic has a replica of your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119976	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed colleague of the crown of your debate 220 hectares is not in line with municipalities and cities and therefore let us not bring and regulate and help to pass the Nature Park Act Biokovo which includes more than 19 500 hectares. So for 220 acres we throw everything in the water, stop development, life, order, etc. And then I'm going to remind you, the head of the county office at a meeting where the mayors and mayors clearly said that the borders are in line with the county plan, and I'm going to remind you now of the County Assembly of the Split-Dalmatia County most of them are from your party and no one ever asks those questions but now suddenly stop if they haven't arranged the borders. I must admit, honestly, I do not understand, apart from a certain political intrinsic to succeed in bringing something that is important, which is developmental, which you yourself confirm the desire to stop it, that life moves forward to sustainable development, ecology, the social and economic aspect that we are finally putting into one order, into a framework that we already have with other nature parks and national parks to do so. I really can't understand a colleague except a political intention to hitchhike what's good. Unfortunately, it's become from your side of the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119977	Replica's reply, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119978	Yes, what has become common on our part is that you did not follow my debate to the end, and if you did, you would have heard, or you would have heard that at the beginning I actually commended the adoption of a spatial plan, certainly by the maker himself, but what I looked back on was a professional basis which was not the basis for making a spatial plan. You cannot know better than those who live in what they need and who serve them for sustainable development on the one hand, and on the other hand what serves them for economic development. So I guess the head of the Zagvozd municipality and its municipal council know what they need and how they actually made comments on this spatial plan. So what if we bring this spatial plan, and we bring it up, I guess, about protecting the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the people living in the area, so I finally said that you don't understand the principle of subsidiarity and that the problem is actually being solved where it came from. I understand the minister here who defended the motion for this decision. It's very clear to me, but I don't understand that the facts of all these leaders are not large local self-government units. And I suggested that in the very end, the adoption of a spatial plan of Nature Park Biokovo should be withdrawn from the procedure in such a way that a re-public debate or an insight into this professional basis is not a problem. You might have delayed it by one or two months, but you'd solve a lot of problems and trust me, all local self-government units would be satisfied. I know how to make spatial plans, and I did it myself that it's not possible to meet everyone's demands. It is quite clear to me, but there are a number of illogicalities that can, with the good will and will of this Kukuriku coalition or the great majority in the Croatian Parliament, be corrected to the satisfaction of everyone and you should understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119979	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Bačić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119980	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Babić, you have rightly detected the most important problems and the dubiosis of this spatial plan, which primarily refers to the professional background of nature protection. It was also said that chronology of the adoption of a spatial plan, i.e. first the Law on the Declaration of Biokov Park of Nature, followed by a spatial plan and then a clear procedure that led to the development of this spatial plan. I would remind you that very soon after the Assembly, then the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia passed the Law on the Declaration of Biokova Park of Nature that shortly afterwards it seemed to me that a year or two of the municipalities of Makarska had then adopted a spatial plan of the Municipality of Makarska. So the same people who initiated then in the Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Announcing of Biok's Nature Park were soon after that in their congregation of the municipality down in Makarska brought a spatial plan. Now, isn't it strange that those who initiated the adoption of the plan to be in error and would bring the wrong limits to their spatial plan of the assembly, the municipality of Makarska which is precisely what it has today we advocate that they should be defined as the borders of the Nature Park Biokovo. So, at the same time as the law was passed, a spatial document was adopted in Makarska that included the boundaries of the spatial plan as the municipalities you mentioned earlier advocated today, which were then part of the congregation of the municipality of Makarska. Therefore, in this work, I agree with you that, as a previous issue of the adoption of this spatial plan in the Croatian Parliament, it was necessary to define with the units of local self-government their spatial plans for which they received confirmation from the County Office for Spatial Planning, I would also like to say from the competent ministry, and the question is rightly asked why such a difference is taking place today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119981	Replica's reply, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119982	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bačić, you are right to see how much this debate has been followed, it is evident that the professional basis has been changed three times in 2012, 2013 and by subsequent amendment in 2014. And it is good to mention that by making a decision on the spatial plan of the Municipality of Makarska and the official messenger of 85 years, these limits were correctly shown in the cartographic depictions of this spatial plan document. And 30 years after that, these borders are illegally changed and better said they are not legally interpreted, which assumes the fact that at that joint session in the former state and council of joint work and the councils of the local communities of the former municipality of Makarska was held in 1985 and in which a decision was actually taken on the park, on the property park of the municipality of Makarska, you were told by people and among whom none actually knew how to interpret it and protect the law of 1981. I simply can't believe it because they were people from that neighborhood and they knew very well when they were making that decision what they were making and on what basis they were making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119983	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119984	Your distinguished colleague in your debate gave a complete one good review of the whole development of the adoption. ... So one good review in that sense. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry that some people don't understand, here they are now and in the assembly probably shooting some of the video extensions for YouTube, for their YouTube site, where they perform certain ways here they refer to nature and the society that surrounds us, they'll know what I'm talking about when we talk about today's society, we've made progress today, we haven't made progress, what we're doing as a society in these modern times, so here maybe it's in some way for some reach. But for us at HDZ, but what you colleagues have pointed out is that we are really doing an additional effort and we are having a public debate. It is something that is even politically smart, if you really want to do it in a way that suggests both the spatial plan and this Law in the Croatian Assembly on the spatial plan can only benefit and in some ways lead to a better solution. I think it's much, much more directional, much more meaningful and much smarter because it's really something that should be as French structuralists say, a long-term structure, because natural heritage certainly is. In that sense, this proposal of yours that you made on behalf of the club in the sense of launching an additional public debate can only benefit anyone and what this spatial plan is already the office because it will also gain a new value through public debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119985	Replica's reply, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119986	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm actually sorry if some colleagues are what you've noticed is that this is done that the remarks of the unit leader of local self-government are related to this pre-election time, it's a life issue for them in the area. The fact is that they don't do YouTube videos, but they're very interested in this, and this spatial plan isn't done since yesterday or a month ago, almost three years ago, and that should certainly be welcomed. But the way it's being discussed and eaten at this point is whether or not I don't want to talk about it. I want to believe that it pleases all residents of this region and I am aware that this spatial plan of Nature Park Biokovo, as the minister said, solves many questions. Although the minister said that park borders can also be changed in some future governments, then we are wasting a lot of time and we are not talking about one possible economic development which would certainly cost that economic development. And the concern of the inhabitants of the region illustrates one fact about the opening of a very important infrastructure facility through Biokovo, and unfortunately no one was present from the government at that time. It actually says how much this government provides and gives concern to that population of the region, especially our Zabikovje, so I think even in these four years this government has not shown great concern and has not shown themselves to help this end by supporting their projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119987	Thank you too, dear colleague Babic. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDSSB club and the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119988	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, honourable MPs and MPs. Well, making spatial plans to edit relationships in space is certainly always good news. The good news is also when it's brought to nature parks, especially those parks where it wasn't and where it was said to be a mess in space. I have to ask myself, given that in some way I was both family and related to that space and that I spent my entire childhood going to that area of Podbikovlje, when it comes to the return of life, it has brought me quite interestingly together in which way the spatial plan will bring life back, especially to Podbikovlje. I'm not sure that's going to happen at all in any way. Maybe it'll bring something order, even though I think there's some big mess out there, because there's no one else in that room to make a mess anymore. The few hundred older people who still have to live in that space barely help themselves more or less, and not that they can make any particular mess, something to build, change and the like. In fact, it's amazing actually when I think of a time from 30, 35 years ago when I was a kid in the county of Župa, which is part of this operation, today almost all the sections are empty, possibly having one, two, three inhabitants. And 30, 35 years ago there was still a lot of people in each of these villages, so it's a relatively short period of time. The forest came down hundreds and hundreds of meters, the roads healed, the parcels of small fields that had been processed have grown, the houses have been abandoned, the space is not devastated by the action of man but is almost restored to nature. And besides the highway that passed from the north side of Biokova, except for the tunnel that was built by people there has very little and life except for a few practically small dots disappears. I don't know why I think the adoption of this spatial plan has anything to do with the order or the mess, or the establishment of any order in relation to the mess. Whether it will help revitalize that space is not sure. Nature practically took care of itself. Where there is no man of nature very quickly conquers and masteres all that man has created. And that's what nature has done more or less in the whole of that space without man's action. She'll take care of it without us and without our plans. But what I would agree with the predecessor is that really, it's not a space that's particularly financially attractive. So these parcels aren't usually worth it, not as a rule, but they're not worth it and nobody's gonna pay them 100 euros per square. So I think no one here, nor the leaders of the units of local self-government, lies and people who have been trying from top space to send messages that should make some changes in this spatial plan before it's passed I don't think any of them have hidden any major financial interests or a desire to not know what capitalizes. But there's no point in not actually trying to conduct that public debate and not accepting what they are or at least considering and seeing what can be accepted from it. In this entire space, what was present in practically all of Zagora was that hundreds and hundreds of hectares of land that had been grunting state-owned de facto for over 100 or 150 years had catastrianly owned and worked for generations of people living in that area. A good part of these people who are extinct today and the particles are very small, they are partly broken and the Croatian state has mass spent said I would actually expropriate or systematic return of all these particles... almost so the landing of hundreds and hundreds of hectares actually those particles back in state property, mostly owned by Croatian forests. Those who remain there, or their successors do not have at all, can carry out the procedure, but most often the price of the procedure is significantly higher than any of the values of each of these particles which are relatively small, scattered, so other than the payment of embosseds, geodetics and costs, of course, and the costs of the court proceedings. As a rule, these costs are always significantly higher than the value of the country. And in fact, on the one hand, a good part of that space was stateed, on the other hand, nature took back what man had succeeded, thus establishing some kind of entropy, keeping that space practically back. And the third thing is a question of even the economic long-term survival possibilities of people in that sub-biological area. Honestly, whether tourism and everything that is connected to it will be a possible model of a sustainable development of life at all, the return of people or the arrival of some other people to that space, and through this one, which is a park of nature, I don't know. But I do know that in the decades that preceded it has never been, and I don't think it will have a more significant impact on people's lives in decades to come. The only thing that can actually bring life back to that space is going to be jobs, not lifts, not birds and not walks on the mountain. That's my personal opinion. So real jobs, creation, production. And go back. Every spatial plan is good, every arrangement of space is good, better than when it wasn't. But those remarks that the local community had at least a good part of them, I think it was necessary to find ways and try to adopt them, and especially that part that refers in fact to the introduction of settlements into the scope of the nature park, which, according to their allegations, was not the case before, which will in fact make it impossible for even the return of people to that today and a good part of the empty settlement, let alone the arrival of some new ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119989	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. We have three replicas. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119990	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague, I mean when you say you don't believe in the long-term survival of people in that area, this isn't what Amazon thinks. There was a space for life there, there were construction areas that included nature parks in the nine municipalities and cities. At this point they can achieve new development, new life, new employment with the adoption of this spatial plan. It will be able to build and operate infrastructures and what you dispute, just a walk so it's not development, that it's not development. Attraction and the safety of tourists is new employment because there will be a possibility of building and operating a certain infrastructure controlled in a protected area. So so many elements, the opening of these shepherding villages that are essentially now dead, the opening of that part with livestock, part with agriculture, organized, therefore there are laws, therefore there are nature parks to protect, to open up development, to bring this social, ecological, economic alignment. The mayors of municipalities and cities at a working meeting with the minister except for one who said that he always objected and that he was always against, understood clearly what it was and directly each municipality received an answer to their enquiries and was clearly shown to them, that space they could not use, and now they can make good use of it for development. So the use of that... was just one manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119991	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119992	Thank you. Well, my colleague, if I hadn't gone there my whole life since I was born to this day, I would've believed this from a distance to these beautiful words that you've referred to about Imotski, especially that part of Zabikovje, but unfortunately that's not the case. The park has been nature for decades, and life has died unwittingly because no one there has lived from nature parks, lived from agriculture, lived from livestock farming and lived from some work in companies that are all in the area of the Imotski Fall, and winery has been sold for decades, but I just don't know how many, 20 public auctions no one will buy. How many people in any way have incomed, lived with, from or along the Nature Park Biokovo? Maybe only those who worked upstairs on that tower, on HTV.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119993	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119994	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Djurović, listening to your debate, stuck to my ear that almost nostalgic reminder of the days when you were there and surely a man of that age is experiencing it in a special way and surely the present moment when he sees these relaxed villages and that area certainly causes special emotions. And I want to connect it to that other part of our beautiful. And you're passing by, and I see unfortunately every day and every day the greater destruction of that Croatian village, almost destroyed, I can say clearly, there is no life that is typical of the village, that I'm not talking about those domestic animals that we're used to. I've talked about it a lot, and of course, you're in this High House, and it's very worrying and sad. And now if one of us is going to say that in this local self-government is trying to improve the quality of life in that area, help these people first and foremost to preserve that they can live, that our children are also going to kindergarten, that they can normally come and traffic. It's somehow considered a strange procedure, I can't understand it at all. Well, if there's no living village, if there's no life in that village, there's no life at all. Well, please, it's been a waste of time, and let the even development that's been talked about a lot. There is not at all the quality of life that can naturally be in one co-existence and cities and villages. It is the life we want and who want all the people, of course we who live in these rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119995	He's giving it to the Replication response, respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119996	Yes, in addition to your thesis, I can only mention that these people would have said so much about themselves if they had even carried out a referendum in Sjevanovac and banned themselves from the quarryes. So they're so worried about nature that they didn't even want to open up work from the quarry while the highway was being built. In some ways that is ours I would also say the curse in some, so neither where we can create something, some jobs and sometimes we close the door to ourselves, and in many things I recognize that we are acting, we would like to be bigger Swiss than Swiss, Japanese than Japanese, Dutch from the Dutch, instead of just trying to be ourselves and try to find our own Croatian sustainable way into the future both for the Croatian state and for the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119997	A new replica, respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119998	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Đurović, you were so nostalgically saying that 35 years ago you were in these areas and you actually saw how cruel the end of the Đurović was, in fact, the truth. It is a harsh end, but an end that has its soul and it is, for example, an oasis of peace for me. I come from that area, I live here, I know what these people are going through, in what way, but I am convinced that this part of Croatia will, in fact, go to the development of this region regardless of one demographic devastation of a closed school. In fact, the interest of the Croatian state should also be that the end is partly along the border of the Republic of Croatia, which is also of the importance of Croatia and with real, smart projects, sustainable projects and this region can be revitalised. I know it's going to be hard, but I'm an optimist, and I'm sure that'll happen. That is why people, citizens in this area actually want the state not as a stepmother but as a mother who will actually subport them in all those projects that they compete in the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions that this is possible for those who are in more urban environments without any advantage over them. Unfortunately, they've been waiting for it for four years, and it's a shame that many of these projects didn't actually go through, they didn't live to be safe, and I'm sure I helped that end.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u119999	Replica response, respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120000	Thank you. Well, I personally don't share your optimism at all. Of course, you optimists must be in the difolt because it's your electoral unit where you've been acting in power for many years, so you've been partly responsible for the situation both in that space and in those places and villages if you want to. There is not a single indicator that would say that anything good is going on in any way in this area. Unfortunately, and I am deeply convinced that this spatial plan at the end that further restricts and makes it even more difficult to build on an ever-wide range of nature parks, instead of looking for ways to stimulate the possibility of moving, the possibility of building, the possibility of living, they still repressively perform on an extended range of nature parks as if there was some kind of rush to build I don't know what. So I honestly don't have too much sympathy. And these fairy tales of cableways, I mean it. The city of Zagreb cannot be built for decades, the city of Zagreb has 800m euros in annual budget, and the cableway will be built from Makarska to St. Jurassic, St. George's. They're chasing to Zagvozd. The best from Zagvozdo to Split, so everyone will be able to get through the wire in a circle. I don't think that's gonna happen so soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120001	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of replicas and responses to the replica. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club and a respected representative of Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120002	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I'm going to do about this proposal for a plan. So, but we have to go first of all to act otherwise in life and I believe that we're all more or less aware of it, that no one can when it comes to national natural resources, and so does Nature Park Biokovo and all the other national parks shouldn't behave like that god gave us, and the devil doesn't. And that's when investment is in the park, but it's also preserving the park, so investment doesn't actually turn it into something that it shouldn't be. So, Nature Park Biokovo is one of 11 nature parks in the Republic of Croatia and here is to repeat myself as all predecessors cover the same mountain mass of Biokovo. Nature Park was declared in '81. In 1981, with an area of 195.5 km2. The park is administratively located in Split-Dalmatia County. It is covered by the municipalities we have already said Brela, Baska Voda, Tučepi, Podgora, Zagvozd, Zadvorje, Šedanovac, and the towns of Vrgorac and Makarska. The highest park of Sveti Jure with 1762 m above sea level is also the highest peak of mountain Biokovo and the third highest peak in Croatia. The park consists of the Botanical Garden of Kotisin, founded by Fr. Jure Radić, and the Wall of Great Kaštel. Yeah, he jumped out. Biokovo stands out with a pronounced karst relief. In this area there are a large number of caves, caves, and deniables, starches and pebbles. Some of the main features of Nature Park Biokovo are the 780 m deep Amphora cave, and the deepest cave on the Biok cave Wet legs -842, so 842 m deep and many endemic plants of animal species, and significant paleontological sites. Along with beautiful landscapes and views in the park there are also geomorphological reserves and special reserves of forest vegetation beech and dishes, and indigenous forests of the black Dalmatian pine. For the protection and maintenance of the park in 1998, a public institution of the Nature Park Biokovo and an annual mountain visited about 50,000 tourists. Here we are today, so here is the proposal for a decision on the establishment of a Space Plan of Nature Park Biokovo, which proposes the adoption of a document of the spatial arrangement of the state level, the spatial Plan of Nature Park Biokovo. The plan is brought by the Croatian Parliament. The owner of the construction and spatial planning ministry, the co-ordinator of the Croatian Institute for Spatial Development, is a public institution of Split-Dalmatia County. The plan covers the area of the park, which according to the act of declaration is 19550 ha... The digital video and interpretation of the surface limits is 19330 ha. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Territorial coverage of the park extends to what I have already said in the area of 7 municipalities and 2 cities. The largest area of the park of 30.7% is the municipality of Zagvozd. As I have already stated because of my characteristics and specialities Biokovo is protected in the category of nature park in '81. A year. The law was declared a park of nature. The role of the park is emphasized by the plan through the protection and preservation of its fundamental features and natural values, which I said little about, the preservation of the traditional way of agriculture and use, the preservation of the traditional typeology of the settlement and the halting of the depopulation trend, while improving living conditions. The demarcation of the park area was carried out by dividing the area for the development and arrangement of the settlement area and the area for the development and arrangement of the area outside the settlement. According to the areas of nature protection, as already said here, the area is divided into a strict zone of protection that includes 18.11% of the park area, a... the park area and the use zone covering 3,03% of the park area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Within the park it is possible to carry out economic activities, therefore agriculture primarily, traditional livestock farming, warfare, vegetables, vineyarding, trade, craftsmanship, tourism rural and eco, sports and traditional hunting, recreation, mountaineering, alpinism, cycling, free climbing, flying and other types of crafts and production activities that can be included and which are naturalized to nature park. It is important to note that it is about a decision that has not led to the Spatial Nature Park Plan Biokovo for years on the waiting were numerous development projects. And it is important to note that the design of the plan began back in 1996. The adoption of the Universal Nature Park Plan Biokovo also creates preconditions for the realization of one of the largest infrastructure projects in the city of Makarska. In fact, the construction of the city of Makarska, difficult for the town of Makarska to endure, could rather say the investment of the city of Makarska but in fact the Republic of Croatia, the construction of the railways of Makarska-Biokovo, of course I suppose that within such an investment would include structural funds. I don't think it is necessary to stress the importance of this project, not only for Makarska but for Croatian tourism as well. The planned construction of the two cabin cableway Makarska-Vosac, the cableway would have a track length of about 2700 meters and a height difference of 1200 meters and, of course, the planned capacity is foreseen for the transport of about 150 thousand visitors per year. But of course they should be brought up. In order to bring them in, we need to revitalise them and we need to revitalise the entire nature park area and, of course, it takes a basic document to do so. The adoption of the plan is a prerequisite for further steps, tendering for an environmental impact study, creating an idea project, making assumptions for obtaining local permits. The adoption of the plan is the basis for which it can be requested that the Makarska-Biokovo cableway be declared a strategic importance project for the Republic of Croatia, a prerequisite for the future establishment of the necessary documentation. But the cable is not the only investment potential of this natural jewel nature park. As my predecessor said, there are important and appropriate jobs that are possible in this area. Of course, conditions will be created for restoring the derotated and damaged contents in order to bring them into function, so roads, forest roads, views, mountainous homes and the like. Of course it is important to preserve the nature and foundation of the existence of Nature Park Biokovo, which means that all procedures cannot disrupt its balance and its essence. A public debate was held as we could see and read from the material provided and the public hearing was held as part of a public debate on the proposal of the Space Plan of Nature Park Biokovo when it was held on 2 March 2015 until 31 March 2015. Public presentations were held by representatives of the Croatian Institute for Physical Development, the Coordinator of the draft plan on behalf of the holder of the construction and spatial planning ministry, the Public Institute of Nature Park Biokovo and the Institute for Spatial Planning of Split-Dalmatia County. During the public debate on the proposal for a plan, 64 submissions were received, which recorded 220 opinions, some of which were accepted by the minister, 72, 57 and 92 of them. It is important to note that there are objections to the proposal for a Decision on the adoption of a Space Plan of Nature Park Biokovo which have delivered here the appropriate unit of local self-government of this group... it seems to me also to be called its members as the designers of professional bases from 2001. These units of local self-government state that the proposed spatial plan explicitly interprets the amended boundaries of Nature Park Biokovo in the areas of Baska Voda, Brela, Tucepi and Zagvozd, and that the new boundaries of nature park are significantly deviating from the boundaries defined by the documents of the spatial arrangement of the county and local level. There is a claim that biological and geological values are based on the professional basis of nature protection are well-recognized and protected, but that given the available capacities of the Public Institute of Nature Park Biokovo remains a controversial effective implementation of the spatial plan. This applies in particular to defined conditions for the realisation of investments and the development of additional professional bases for the transport system and recovery. However, the fact is that, in addition to these disputes, the adoption of this plan as competent to other low-level plans is a cornerstone of the development of the Biokovo nature, as it finally enables further investment development activities for the whole area to cover, but indirectly and for the area it is gravitating. Without a plan, it's just not possible. It also enables application in all these investments to structural funds. The proposed provisions for the implementation of the Biokovo Nature Park plan detail the objectives of editing the area, organisation and demarcation of the park area according to purpose, the deployment of functions of importance for the management of the park area, handling the public and other infrastructure systems, handling cultural and natural values in the park area, taking measures to protect nature and the environment, cultural goods and other values of the park area. The conditions of construction in the area of the park, in the areas of the settlement, as well as the original areas outside the area of the settlement are set out in the gauges found and located in the park. Measures to implement the plan shall be set out, measures shall be taken to prevent adverse impacts on nature and the environment and measures to protect against natural disasters. It is important to note in the end that the proposed provisions for the implementation of the Spatial Nature Park Park Biokovo provide conditions for the protection and uniform development of the area covered by the park. This can also be ensured and its purpose should be ensured and can enable the development of the park as well as a wider area within the units of local self-government and the entire county, and easier implementation of investment projects, the development of the economy in particular entrepreneurship and tourism, and hopefully as part of a possible small economy such as small livestock and appropriate warfare. I won't even talk about tourism. The increase of jobs, therefore simpler realisation of investment projects, the development of the economy in particular entrepreneurship and tourism. This should contribute to the development of belonging cities and municipalities but also to the Republic of Croatia as a whole, especially in this area, is in fact a logical support to a spatial plan that enables it to function while preserving the natural and cultural values of the Park of Nature Biokovo. And finally, the SDP club supports making this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120003	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The esteemed Branko Bačić signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120004	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr Babic expressed the HDZ's stance on the adoption of a Space Plan for Nature Park Biokovo. I've said a few of my own, said a few of my thoughts during the replicas. The fact that it is necessary and good to bring a spatial plan in order to protect natural and cultural wealth and goods in an area that is protected on the one hand, on the other hand, to enable the economic development of that same space. As far as I am prepared, not only today's debates, but also on the committee, I have identified the observations that are going according to the spatial plan plan, not so much as on the designers of the plan, but not on the Split-Dalmatia County Office, nor on the Croatian Institute for Spatial Development, which was the co-ordinator of the plan, but also on the fundamental observations that are mentioned by me in this procedure, and justified, according to the expert basis of nature protection, which was made without sufficient participation of the interested public in the conduct of units of local self-government. Therefore, it is not surprising, and for me it is alarming that of the 9 units of local self-government, over which the park of nature stretches, 6 of them opposes the adoption of such a spatial plan. These 6 units of local self-government account for 70% of the scope of this spatial plan, making their observations even bigger. So a fundamental observation like I said refers to the very professional basis. On the one hand, to the limits defined by the expert background and, on the other hand, by the doctor of science, which Mrs. Holy stated in her presentation, which were in law and on the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature provided all the remarks which are practically and constraint from the expert basis which was the basis for the development of the Space Plan of Nature Park Biokovo. On the other hand, I believe that, earlier in the procedure of the previous debate, which was based on the professional basis of nature protection, it was better said in 2013, that the previous debate was held at a time when the municipal and city councils were not established because it was during the local elections in 2013 and then the expert debate was also suspended in a certain way, which took place in the context of the previous debate. At the time when units of local self-government showed their disagreement with the boundaries of the scope of the spatial plan, they had to stop and define together with Split-Dalmatia County, together with the Split-Dalmatia County Office, together with the ministry and the units of the self-government centre and make no doubt the boundaries of nature park that this plan covered. This should have been done more because their observations were made in the procedure, which were based on the spatial plans of these same units of local self-government, which the County Office for Spatial Planning should certainly have confirmed in the process of adopting the spatial plans of these units of local self-government both the municipalities and the two cities of Makarska and Vrgorca. If their spatial plans have been adopted and are recorded within the border of the park itself which does not agree with this border, it is clear that this was a sufficient signal already in 2013 in the previous debate to resolve the issue to the satisfaction of both. Is as important as this project and this plan is to preserve nature it is also important for the economic development of this area to which many speakers today are just calling when they claim that this plan itself should be adopted because it is a presumption of the development of this I would say the works of Croatia which clearly is not sufficiently developed as... or units of Zagvozd... The city of Vrgorca, Šedanovac, etc. etc. Therefore, if this was important to us, and it is important to enable it through the adoption of a spatial plan for the economic development of these units of local self-government, then it is also important for us to listen to their comments precisely by those units of local self-government whose development we here in the Croatian Assembly call for their demands, their comments, their proposals and we respect the ongoing adoption of a spatial plan. In fact, it is not true, I have heard it somewhere before, it seems to me during the debate, that they were late with their remarks, and I have the comments of the local self-government units here, and some of them even in the previous debate have made their proposals, some local self-government units during the debate that took place this year, and therefore they have received answers at the end to these comments, so they would not have received answers that they did not have their legitimate observations and stated. So to conclude in the section relating to borders, when comparisons are made with spatial planning documents which are the basic documents for the development of the unit of local self-government, even more important documents than this spatial plan, because they include that part of the unit of local self-government that is not within the park of nature and when comparisons of the boundaries resulting from this spatial plan document are then determined by their disagreement, which is in the first place not the same units of local self-government. Therefore, it was very important to resolve that, then here in the Parliament, by acclaiming, we clearly adopt this spatial plan, such as the adoption of a number of spatial plans of the area of special features in the last 3.5.4 years of this government, when we here at the HDZ Club are absolutely deprived of what there is no need for any party reasons or politics, we have always supported the adoption of spatial plans of the area of special features or parks of nature or national parks. On the other hand, this was one observation that is important, which refers to borders, but on the other hand, what is also important, it is important that the designers of the professional background and that of dr.sc. Marija Edita Šolić and dr.sc. Nikola Tvrtkovic delivered a letter to all committees, the president of the Parliament, the ministries, etc. fenced by such a plan because those who participated in the design of the professional basis of their observations were not respected and therefore they are fully restricted from the last version of this document, or from this spatial plan of the Nature Park Biokova as a whole. So two very important things that have defined the basic document on the basis of which a spatial plan is developed, which is the professional basis of nature protection, suffers numerous dubiosiss and relate to borders, which relate to the nature park itself. So I personally suggest that this is a good proposal by the HDZ Club to stop with the adoption of a spatial plan, to carry out a public debate that was not conducted for the professional basis of nature protection, to carry out the skills, to verify in any way the boundaries of this spatial plan, compared to the boundaries and spatial plans of the unit of local self-government, it makes it indisputable, unequivocal, and only then does I support what the County Office has done together in coordination with the Croatian Space Development Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120005	We have two replicas. First honorary Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120006	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You mentioned this to your colleague Bačić, and we have been saying this in the debate all day that two important segments of this decision are related to the spatial plan of Nature Park Biokovo, these are the boundaries of the park and the professional basis done by the State Institute for the Protection of Nature and, unfortunately, all day long listens to the respected Minister Mrak Taritaš, who is guilty of this in general by the creators of spatial law himself. We don't even have units of local self-government having objections to the creators themselves and to the suggestions of respected ministers already have exactly the remarks on these two segments. And for them are the Ministry of Nature and Environment Protection and Minister Michael Zmajlović and the State Institute for Nature Protection, or Matija Franković, who if you look here... the center of the originals of this spatial plan you will see that there are no persons listed to change the borders of nature park. So we can doubt and have the right to doubt their expertise. The fact is that the State Institute for Nature Protection changed the boundaries of nature parks two times, three times, which is a fact, these are inconclusive facts, and he was not allowed to do so by law because the boundaries of nature park can only be changed by the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120007	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120008	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Babić, so we all morning if I can say we don't have it, I said it in my presentation, we don't have any objections to the spatial plan aspect of this plan. We believe that he, as he has imagined, will contribute to the economic development of Zabikovlje, or the entire area over which the park of nature is permeated. The fundamental observation of the unit of local self-government, I, Madam Minister, do not know why you did not appreciate it through the adoption of a spatial plan of two important remarks to which the units of local self-government are also referred, which is the part relating to the boundaries that we currently possess, by comparison with the law of '81, comparison with the spatial planning documents of all units of local self-government, is not difficult to identify and return and respect from one side the views of the unit of local self-government. It seems to me that it is better to respect them now than to pass them over so easily and to say that the spatial plan can be changed, it can change the boundaries in another procedure, and you know very well that it is not a simple procedure but that this procedure that we intended or if we want to go out to change after the plan is adopted, we were better to do so immediately at the beginning now and to solve the dubiosis around the borders as a previous question. I agree with my colleague Babić, therefore, that here is a fundamental observation sent to the State Institute for Nature Protection, i.e. the Ministry of Environmental Protection. After all, you, as Parliament's representative in 2013, seem to me in January to have referred to the parliamentary issue of Minister Zmajlovic, warning him of this problem, asking to define the borders, to resolve it as a previous issue. You were then responsible for your responsibility but apparently there was not enough hearing to be respected, in the ministry to be respected... A unit of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120009	Thank you. Second replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in your debate, you've talked a lot about local self-government units and, of course, the importance of local self-government, which is, I think, extremely and very important to stress and this is also in line with the Charter of the European Union, this family. But especially is the development of this local self-government. But now that we come to that question, that's where we go in that realization, that's where we immediately get our hands tied. So should we mention those changes to the income tax law as to how reduced the funds are. We in the county where I come from, we have an objection of course to that exploitation of hydrocarbons and those fees, those famous rents that we've been halved, more than halved, and surely it interferes with our everyday functioning. But there's another problem that's important to highlight here and that's transport infrastructure. So let's be clear that the ZUCs' assets were halved. More than half, a third. So now that someone is going to invest in development and come if their infrastructure is transportable, there is a threat to traffic safety, normal life on that ground. Not to mention the farm where I spent my throat here in this high house. So where better agriculture than in villages and in these areas will develop and the village is simply destroyed, we know why and how. Here, these are things to say today very clearly and loudly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120011	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120012	I thank Mr. Vice President, my colleague Milinkovic, and I agree with you that in many of the laws that we have passed in the Croatian Parliament, against which we were in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, a strong centralization of the affairs that were in the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit has been carried out, as well as in the section relating to spatial planning and construction. That's what we talked about when we passed the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. Not only has strong centralised operations been done, but income centralization has been done, so you yourself have said. At the end of last year, we greatly impoverished local self-government units in such a way as to amend income tax laws and the Law on the financing of local self-government units, over nearly 2 billion kunas was taken over by local self-government units, and in this way practically the Government relieved citizens in a certain way of income tax at the expense of local self-government units. When you mentioned hydrocarbons in the section relating to the reduction in rent, which is very important for the unit of local self-government that you come from. I would remind you that we here in the Parliament have been saying how much disrespect there has been to the views of units of local and regional self-government when it comes to hydrocarbons only on the second part of Croatia and, first of all, to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. When competitions were opened for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in an area that forms an integral part of the units of local self-government although it was not recorded either in their spatial plans or in the spatial plans of the counties in the Republic of Croatia. In contrast to the spatial plans of the unit of local self-government and the regional self-government, we have opened a competition in their space about which we have interpleted here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120013	An individual debate between the respected Goran Beus-Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120014	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Whoever follows this debate can actually understand how important it is both directly and indirectly when it comes to the future and towards the development of Croatia as such. Croatia, one of the few countries that has extremely large areas under direct protection, regardless of whether it was nature parks, national parks or other forms of landscape protection. It is not and must never be a burden or a curse. On the contrary, we have lived and we will live for centuries in agreement and correspondence, in harmony with such conditions and we consider them and we must consider them and we must not violate it as our own blessing. When we talk about an area covered by the Park of Nature Biokovo, then we must not forget that it is an integral part of a natural whole that extends from Cetina to Neretva. And that when you look at that space, it's actually this area that takes up the central and largest space of that territory. If we talk about where people live, how they live, what they live on, what they live on, and what the possibility of Nature Park Biokovo is, unfortunately, one is a big white stain that doesn't happen many lives. The acquisition of circumstances wanted to be an extremely interesting area in natural terms, and what is happening today in demographic terms may be the worst compared to the last 250 years. I think the demographic picture of this area has never been worse since the 1718 Pojareva peace when the borders that are still in force today are established and today relate to the demarcation of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Wars that have passed this area, especially World War II, have left desolation. In this area of Makarska Riviera or Makarska coast and Zabikovlja every other house was wrapped in black. But it wasn't the first monster of the 20th century, the first one to drive many people to Australia, New Zealand, America, from philoxer to indifference, to Belgian mines, etc. However, the end of the destruction in World War II has never recovered. And today as... fingers stand the walls of the houses where they lived, which were burned and which were never restored. This area, among other things, adorns another negative characteristic, which is that it is not catastrian and grantatively arranged, I would say since the time of Austro-Hungarian. All generations that have been born and died since the beginning of the 20th century and to this day with oral surrender have taken possessions, in many cases without any enrollment in either the cataster or the land books. Of course, that's what the depopulation was for. The industrialization that took many people to larger cities in the 1960s and 1970s, in this particular case, especially in Split, Makarska, Zagreb, Ploče, left a painful trail. I remember that time as my colleague Đurovic, too, because I spent part of my summer in the area. It was an area where many people still lived, in which schools existed not only as areas but also as central, full children. There aren't nearly any today. And when you look at cooperatives and social homes, school buildings, all staring blank and half-breed, life is gone. And then the circumstances of the 1960s take place in the coastal part, in that part of which we later called the Colloquial and the marketing Macarite Riviera, where the best past were those who had of course land by the sea, although it was not particularly appreciated until then. And there was a development boom that actually squeezed within 100 meters of the sea line. Many villages, today we recognize them as so-called. Upper, Gornji Tučepi, Gornja Brela, a number of settlements were completely devastationed. People went down to once-in-a-lifetime small ports, and those segregations grew into a ray. The same thing happened on the other side of Biokov. The conditions under which people could live were so difficult and later difficult to define the boundaries of the nature park that they also went down and away. The worst thing that can happen is that nature park as a protected whole does not correspond at all with the needs of the life of the region and is a great challenge and a huge task but also art, harmonize these three pillars of the concept of sustainable development: ecological, economic and social. And it should be fair here, this spatial plan seeks to bring balance. It will not bring people back so easily and will not be in large numbers, but it will enable those who wish on their grandfather to restore the old stone house, arrange the garden around it, continue to deal with something that is indigenous and completely original and quality, and we remember the time when both sheep and goats and cattle and beekeeping were developed there, the production of honey, wine, brandy, figs, everything. Not to mention the southern part where many olive trees have grown up in the trees and become forests and unfortunately only the fires reveal to us the lasins, docs and serpentines where they used to be. So 3% of the area we're talking about here is the area where construction is allowed, but in what way? By revitalizing what was once long ago built or introduced by some new, but in the spatial sense of minor infrastructure objects that should be bait to restore a part of life. And on the other hand, environmental protection, protection of plant and animal species makes additional sense if it is presented, if we learn about it, if there are those elements of infrastructure that will bring up the child and the adult and show what he has dedicated his life to, Fr. Jure Radic. So logic, let's stop this process, put it back to zero, put it back to square one, repeat the public debate, it's not good. Because if HDZ colleagues also admit that it brings a whole series of new solutions that will solve a whole series of open issues because they haven't been solved for decades and have only actually created a brake and life. So if it happens then it's a huge step forward. A new administration or a refreshed administration, regardless of who will be in power, can later step or three make certain things that remain controversial and define and change. If borders are controversial, only borders, the minister explained that those in this particular case do not mean much because in fact, the regime in the area where the settlements are being pushed up to a higher level than is now defined by the existing spatial plans of those units of local self-government. I'll end up here because we're running out of time, but I'm calling on my colleagues and my colleagues, let's make that effort. Let's get this spatial plan. It is extremely important for 9 municipalities, the cities of that area, for the entire area from Cetina to Neretva, for all those people who live there and who are from there, because thank God we now note that some people may be older, and among them even younger want to go to that area, want to revitalize their grandfathers and want to re-retaliate their homes in which they were born or in which they grew up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120015	Thank you. The exhibition gives rise to the respected Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120016	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, Beus-Richembergh, is clear to me that social aspect you're talking about and you spoke nicely about that part. You obviously know our Zabikovlje well. But then you said by defining the boundaries then and in '83. For years, a large part of the upper villages came down to the sea unless I was wrong, and that seems now. So, the detachment of the border with the Split-Dalmatia County spatial plan in this case is 30%. And given the draft proposal for a decision to make a spatial plan of the Biokovo Nature Park adopted by the government at a session on July 23rd this year, it is actually an apparent deviation in the area of the municipality that you mentioned, the Tucepi municipalities in almost 800 000 square meters in favour of the park, which was actually explained by one digital recording and interpretation of the act of declaration which is not actually true. It is a shame, for example, when you were talking about protected species either plant or animal that this Proposal for a spatial nature park Biokovo, for example, from Gornji Brela, did not satisfy the proposals of Brela municipality that what is already an existing state, which is the entrance to the Nature Park of Biokovo from Gornji Brela is actually being erased and no longer exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120017	The replica matches the esteemed Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120018	Comrade Babić, I am sure that in his final address, the Minister will answer you a whole series of questions and suggestions. However, since you are already troublesome about the question of entry into the nature park, it is a miracle that no one alive has objected or opposed to the fact that by now Zabikovlje has no entry at all. One that was completely dysfunctional because it wasn't close to the most important roads. Of course there's no magic wand. Neither the tunnel through Turkey nor the tunnel through Biokovo nor the construction of the A1 highway has significantly brought life back to that area, but they have opened up hope and in several cases have shown that it can be. And that process isn't simple, it won't last five years, it'll take decades. But today you can come to that area so simple, so fast. One day when a tunnel is built towards Drvenik it will be a zone in which it will actually be in some way and the privilege to have real estate, or to live, definitely. We may not experience it, but those who come behind us certainly will and will ask us if we have continued the logic of generations that have forgotten that end and whose depopulation and desertation of Zabikovlje meant nothing because they have been entrenched, so it was easier for them to live in large cities, and for their grandfather they didn't care. Or we actually turned a new leaf and turned the paradigm around and said we're not going to cut people's roots, we're going to let them live where they came from. Because at least that's what I'm saying on behalf of myself, or at least I can say that I'm saying what the feelings of the Wreathed are, the Wreathless have never been ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120019	The final minutes of this debate belong to the minister of construction and spatial planning of the respected Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120020	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. So, through the debate, which individually, which clubs were discussing in principle three topics. One topic was sustainable development, the other were borders and the third topic was the need to adopt a plan yes or no. Somewhere in the third year of the Architectural Faculty, the subject you get is spatial planning and the teacher said in the first hour that spatial planning is the synchronization of all users in space and that when you do, you have achieved a good job. It's absolutely impossible to achieve it, but let's do it, do a good job. And I am what I am convinced, convinced that we have done a good job with this plan. Sustainable development. Sustainable development is not without man. Where we don't have a man, we don't even have sustainable development. Croatia is a country that has 40% of its territory protected through 8 national parks, 11 nature parks and NATURA 2000. When you take data that has been satellite-recorded 5.6% of Croatia's territory is built under buildings, so also under certain infrastructure. That's where you get the roads and the railroads. When we read them this spatial plan, in this spatial plan, which covers 19330 ha, in this spatial plan 18.11% is a space of strict protection. So, the area that is under strict protection where the basic phenomena of this nature park are being read, and 3% is planned as a construction area, with construction areas being taken over from existing and valid spatial plans. The only thing further planned were the planned zones of the visitor's infrastructure that were equally concerned. So if you have an article 117 in front of you, where it says, forgive Article 116, where it says that the area of the visitation infrastructure of Lower Podgora is planned in the area of the rehabilitated waste dump. So that's where we made sure that the visiting infrastructure zones were only planned where the space was devastated or where it was already done. When we refer to these 3% that are defined as a building area and you take that there's greenery, that the building of the plot is about 0.3% about 0.9% of that entire area could be built under the buildings if we start working now. Which is actually absolutely negligible all over the space. But it gives life space because without humans there is no life in the area of Nature Park Biokovo. The second topic she was on all along was the boundaries. '81. the years have established limits. These limits are defined in detail and it has been said that the area of the Nature Park Biokovo is 19,550 hectares. Then these boundaries were drawn by hand in a spatial plan that was made in '83. On several occasions these borders were drawn and are also drawn in the Split-Dalmatia County Plan. The same designer is the maker of the Split-Dalmatia County Space Plan, the creator of this spatial plan, which is the County Institute of Split-Dalmatia County and is legally his task to give his opinion on all the spatial plans of the settlement of municipalities and cities that are in line with the Split-Dalmatia County's Space Plan. So, on several occasions in the public debate, there were a number of documents showing the borders of Nature Park Biokovo, where they were drawn and shown in different ways. The fact is, for the first time now digital, it's a fact. That's why it's 220 acres of nature park smaller. It was never discussed in a public debate. And look wonders, we come to 2015, after a series of previous discussions by the designer who has already developed all these plans, the designer who has already dealt with this is in a public debate through previous discussions and through public debates and is no longer a problem which is in the plan or not but once becomes a problem of borders. I was wondering why that was a problem. I went there, I made a meeting, and the problem is obviously somewhere else, not the border problem. The problem is, I can partially explain it professionally, from the next aspect. When it comes to the spatial plan of the area of special features or the national park or nature park, then the residents want their plot not to be within the borders of nature park because they read it the following way: the state will take my land, that country will no longer be mine, I will not be able to build anything there, I will be a citizen worse than everything else. That's just not the way it is! If, in front of this esteemed House, the 7th spatial plan of the area of special features is therefore all residents who have their own property, who have a plot that is intended for construction and which is within these, this 7th spatial plan, they can get their own if they want a location or construction permit. I repeat once again here we have a case that when the border goes in the middle of the street those who are in the park of nature if this spatial plan this distinguished House adopts will be able to get its building permit, and the one that is on the other side which is not in the park of nature is not going to be able to win until the urban planning is adopted. I understand that, I understand that fear in people let me get out of the borders of nature park, I won't be able to win, it lasts long and when Parliament will bring it. There's no argument for that. People and our citizens who are located within the Park of Nature Biokovo, located in building areas based on this spatial plan can get, can legalize their property, can get a new license and can get about a thousand shepherding apartments, it can get reconstruction. And that's where we go back to what we're doing. The point of this job is to have spatial planning, to make spatial plans quick, to fit time, to respond to the facts that are in space and to allow sustainable development and to allow people to build there, to put their real estate into operation there. That's exactly the plan in front of you. And the borders, when it started to discuss boundaries, I took part twice in the border debate process. Once there was Krka National Park where you always have conflicts I would say two basic sides, you have conflicted residents who would very much get out of the park because they think it's a difficult environment. I don't think so, I think it's an advantage. I also think that Croatia has a comparative advantage, which is only 5.6% built and that we should aim for a quality built space and space that enables new economic development, not just taking up space for construction but also not knowing why. And on the other hand, you have those who deal with protection and who would like to see as much from the point of view as possible in the nature park so that everything else can be analyzed further. The spacious nature park plan is not a bogeyman. It's a spatial plan like any other. He's talking about our relationship to space, our sensitivity to space, but where there's no humans, there's no further development. Where people go, there's no development. I may just end up being on our Ministry website among other things we have published all the tickets on February 15th, '68. We don't just have part of Međimurje and I think it's Lastovo because we haven't been able to get them from Belgrade. I am very happy to watch these cards because these cards say what was done in Croatia in 50 years. So when you go to see this part then you see individual objects along the coastal line, and you see these villages, so the slopes, which have people. And why are there people there? That's what you can see from the arable surfaces that are there. There was also a debate about Slavonia, and look at all of Slavonia and see what she looked like in '68. And what it looks like today. '68. It's been processed, and today the woods have taken over that processing surface. Go back to Bioco. Biokovo's spatial plan has the possibility of further development, and the debate on the borders of Nature Park Biokovo is very unusual to open in 2015, and the borders have been such since '81. But since '81. They couldn't have been digital, and that's how they are today. And such debates in the future on the limits of dissatisfaction established borders will probably not be in front of this respected home because the absolute work of the IPO information system of spatial arrangement will show all borders in digital form, it will be possible to see them at any time, and if there is a debate then they will be dissatisfied with the established borders and not the way the border is established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120021	Thank you. He had two replicas. First respected Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120022	Dear Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I have listened carefully to your presentations and this about the borders is all within the scope of Croatia as far as I'm concerned. Biokovo will be declared, it's already a national park, so you want to confirm it. But, ma'am, you said you did a good job, you didn't do a good job with this, and you know why? You've never mentioned or explained how you think to protect, mark all those pits where the Partisans threw away thousands of innocent people. There they were marked in these parks of yours partisan roads where Partisans were playing razors and eating chickens and making death sentences for a number of people, not soldiers, just innocent civilians, because this Partizan bio-cow squad didn't fight any fights but served as a terrorist one organization to bring people from nearby places and to throw them into the pits. Please tell me it can't be just a national park without mentioning those pits, it can't be that they don't get marked, we can't let us not know where our dear and deceased are. The father of our former Split-Dalmatia mayor and President Hajduk has been looking for him for 10 years I don't know which pit. Are these pits allowed to be explored, or are we going to be doing chapels or are we allowed to do churches and chapels or are we going to lift crosses over these pits? We can't close our eyes in front of that fact. And I ask you to respect this and in this bill, either adopt or return the law to completion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120023	The replica matches Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120024	Thank you very much. It's a park of nature, not a national park. And the way something is marked, of course, that it's not in this ministry's vault, but in the vault of another ministry. We have taken over the facts and they are in this spatial plan. And just as absolutely possible further research, even as much as this spatial plan says further research needs to be done. And a good job we did for a simple reason, here we mentioned on several occasions this meeting with the mayors and with the mayors, at the meeting there was a gentleman who was sitting on the side and he said if he could ask something, of course he could, he said that he had land in the village of Tomici which he had already mentioned here several times, and he asked if this spatial plan could get me a permit on his plot and can legalize a house that is on a neighboring plot or it won't be possible and I'll be left without land? The answer is clear, his land is his land, he plots his plot and this spatial plan allows him to do so. And that's why we did a good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120025	The second replica of the esteemed Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120026	Dear Minister, we have said several times today, and I will now repeat that as far as the designer of the spatial plan itself is concerned, as well as you as ministers and ministries, we have no serious objections, however, we support it. We referred to something that is in the power of Minister Zmajlovic, the State Institute for Nature Protection and Mr Frankovic. You said that for sustainable development, there was no sustainable development without man and that then the borders were drawn by hand and that the subsequent insight, i.e. by overlapping cards, saw that this was not right and the spatial plan of the Split-Dalmatia County which had the same designer. That's what you said if I'm not mistaken. I was, preparing for this debate, asking the designer of the spatial plan did they point to changes in the borders of the state office? They made it clear to me that they did. So the undisputed fact is that the borders of nature park have been changed, and thus the law has been broken because they cannot be changed without the Croatian Parliament because it is a park of nature. And you're aware of that. I understand that a lot of effort has been made, and also as the head of the municipality I understand that it cannot meet all the observations and demands on the spatial plan and I am aware of that, but I think that people, the units of local self-government that have been giving these remarks they live on the ground, they will benefit less or more from it. And that it may have taken a little more sensitivity for this part that was related to the identification of the border of nature park to be agreed with the units of local self-government and another insight to be made. I don't think it would cost much, and the state wouldn't lose much, and in fact, we'd all be happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120027	The replica matches Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120028	Dear Representative, that a lot of time and energy has been spent on identifying or defining the boundaries of nature parks, but I repeat again, they have been identified in terms of 81 years. The 83rd year has been drawn on maps that were on..., and then on the zonal and which have also experienced some changes there and they are now established in the professional background and as such, we worked on the Spatial Plan of Nature Park Biokovo. Which is not an unknown fact in the area of Nature Park Biokovo for the simple reason that there are still no limits between certain municipalities. So we have a case that two municipalities that now have slow borders have no mutually established boundaries and we had the possibility of next not bringing any spatial plan and saying there's no spatial plan because it's about... where the ministry gives consent, there's no other spatial plan until you've established the border, and once you've established the border, then we'll add consent. So somewhere in 2004 it was, now in 2015 they have not yet defined the border and absolutely professional conclusion for all of us was that these were the borders given to us by the Nature Protection Institute they were behind them by the basis of their Nature Protection Act and to further complete the spatial plan of Nature Park Biokovo because the assessment and assessment that this space deserved to have a spatial plan and elements for further development.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120029	I thank Minister Dark Taritash, thank all those who participated in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120030	Proposal for a decision on a spatial plan of the Nature Park Biokovo. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision and please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I say most votes, 80 votes for, 28 abstentions, 4 votes against a decision on the adoption of a spatial plan of Nature Park Biokovo in the text as proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120031	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law amending the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement of Housing Savings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 909. The motionary is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Igor Radenovic, Deputy Finance Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120032	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, let me believe in my brief and summarised opening statement in two parts of the first system of housing savings in Croatia, and then about the very proposal to amend and supplement this law. The current House Savings Act and the state incentive of housing savings came into effect in '98, was passed in yet unknown parliament's convocation, I don't know which was 3rd, 4th in a row and had one series of changes, a dozen changes throughout all these years until today. It therefore provides for conditions of housing savings and housing credits, conditions, standards and procedures for granting and using state incentive savings to address citizens' housing needs, as well as associated criminal provisions. Each time the promoter in front of the government and club presidents said about similar sentences, exact sentences that housing savings is one of the more favourable forms of savings since housing savings at the end of the minimum loss of savings acquires the right to a more favourable housing loan at a fixed interest rate for the entire duration of the loan. As proposed by the law, housing loans can be approved for the purchase of an apartment or a family house, for the construction of an apartment and a family house, reconstruction, adaptation, repair and equipment of the apartment or house, and reconstruction, the purchase of a building particle without or partly built building, municipal planning of a building particle and payment of a residential loan taken by a credit institution, so a fairly wide diapazon of opportunities for which you can obtain favourable housing credit if you save that in residential savings for a certain time. But that's not all, as they say in those ads, and I say housing savings are the right to take out a loan of housing savings, and it's the right to a state-run incentive saving that increases his savings stake, and that's what's the additional motivator for our citizens to decide the same thing. State incentives are approved by housing savings from the state budget, and based on documented data on collected housing savings in the previous calendar year. The housing savings on your amount of available housing savings in the year in which the DPS is paid maximum of up to five thousand kuna can be... so a percentage of five thousand kuna. All these years it's been maximum in the prescribed amount. The housing savings can be saved in several housing savings, but the state's incentive can only be achieved in one savings unit. Of course, the system is networked and nothing different can happen there, and if the housing savings cancel their housing savings within five years of the start of the housing savings, the state will encourage, along with the corresponding interest, to return to the state budget. Last in this opening part and generally in housing savings, I remind you that five housing savings currently operate in Croatia with different market shares and successes. It is unless this is a commercial about the first housing savings company, Raiffeisen to the housing savings company, Wüstenrot to the housing savings company, PBZ and HPB to the housing savings company. And now let me say in part two what we have changed in this proposal that is before you today. We are practically confirming the already adopted regulation amending the House Savings Act and the state incentive of housing savings, since the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the end of 2014, and was confirmed in this House for a year by the power of the regulation to have legal power, so we had to, on this side, want to refer a legislative proposal. You will remember that even before the summer, we have referred the proposal to two questions, but as this dynamic about the end of the Parliament has accelerated, so that business will be fine, then we have withdrawn the proposal and sent the same proposal in a reading for those who may have been confused about what it was, so the parent committees on this agenda point were practically discussed before the summer break. What is changed by this proposal? Article 21 is amended as follows: The law on housing savings and fostering housing savings, more specifically, introduces a formula based on variable depression or the amount of DPS, which is based on average interest rates on certain citizens' deposits with a corrective factor which represents a adjustment to the longer term or is worth the long-term life savings rate of five years of that of five years. Under the proposal of this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will take these two variables into account by 31 October and determine the amount. DPS percentage for next year. The formula is relatively simple, here are our young ones here, the percentage of DPS is KP+FS where KP is the average interest rate and FS is the stabilization factor of the interest rate. You have detail in the materials, I was thinking of opening it up and reading it, but I feel like there's no need for that. That's why I'd like to finish this preliminary presentation with information that you also know, of course, but it's not bad to repeat it for the public. For 2015, according to this new formula, which therefore lives under a regulation adopted by the Government, we are now reviving it by law, for this year the VPS will be maximum for under exactly 4.9% or maximum 245 kuna for each of those optimal savings, therefore of a maximum of 5 thousand kuna. And the funds for that decision are secured in the state budget. In view of the number of housing parties, therefore housing savings are projected in the budget for this year to be 50 million kuna. In view of the variables that enter into this formula, as I said the average interest rate and the stabilization factor of the interest rate and the way it is accounted for in 2016, we provided the same means, although the assessment from all of this may individually be lower but since we expect a market increase in the housing contracts themselves, we estimate that the funds provided in the budget will be sufficient for next year. Here's the introduction, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120033	Thank you. We have two replicas. First of all, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120034	Thank you very much. Well, well-respected Vice President and Deputy Minister, it may not be a replica, but just another little request for an even more concrete clarification. In 2013 it means that this share is reduced from 15 to 10%, now you've finally said some of the figures that will actually be, which will be the value of that incentive. I'd like to ask you if you've done simulations, concrete simulations that will happen in the relationships of the current users of housing savings in relation to what will be in this formula that an ordinary citizen can't really read, he can't know what's going on there. So here's what I'd like to ask for is a little further clarification, on the comparative data, means some example now, according to the current law, and for example, what it's going to mean by this formula that you're proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120035	The replica corresponds to Deputy Radjenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120036	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I said introductoryly, the housing savings system lived for 15 years in the Republic of Croatia and then we had a debate in this House 10 times, all these changes and were complemented by the adoption in this House of 15% incentivization, so it goes down to 10, I don't know you remember better about all of that. We were one year old when we canceled, so it encourages housing savings, and then I say next year I practically put this formula back. The situation was similar to the banks. What was the problem with Croatian housing savings and housing savings? It was the problem and it was still that a good part of the housing savings, and that's what you're talking about here doesn't end up in the finals, and that's why I've consciously listed what credits can be taken if you're saving in residential savings. Very often, in which housing savings and even the ones founded by some large banks then rerouted to the commercial loans of their banks and even those in Swiss but now I don't expand too much and some housing savings haven't achieved any success. What am I saying? I would like to say that in the good part of the housing savings was used as an additional form of savings that did not meet this purpose without being useful to the economy itself in the end, but that people who simply had extra resources with state incentives achieved extra profits through the interest-free interest rates achieved, and all the other governments at the time, in any case, rated it unfair and the Parliament itself, and we asked the banks to cooperate for a more quality formula. This formula is now in front of us, this formula is in line, it is adopted by a regulation, explained by a regulation in this House, and it remains as it is. So the formula is relatively complicated but the government always communicates and has to say by 31 October what amount it has communicated. For this year it is 245 kuna, I said intro by my assessment, and the basis, the assessment of the Croatian National Bank will be any lower and, in any case, by 31 October, the Government will publish it precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120037	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. The Honorable Slavko Linic will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Left-wings.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120038	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with a colleague, colleague and colleague. One small law that shows what the fourth-year policy of the current government is. Building policy is one of the fundamentals of social policy. And if we're really going to recognize a government's social note then we're going to give an assessment of how she acted in the area of encouragement and housing, and on the other hand, solving the housing problems of citizens who are financially difficult to secure their own apartment like I would say the quality of life in every country. And this document speaks of the State of the Republic of Croatia and its housing policy. This document was passed in '98. The year and the law rests in '98. A year. It is noteworthy enough that it seems to me in the early years the amounts from the state budget were moving over 500 to 600 million in the state budget. And now we see that in the next year it's probably less than 50 million. Therefore, there is no residential construction and the low incentives of residential construction are low. '98. The financial market for financing the needs of citizens started to open for the year, and thus housing construction. And maybe that was the model at the time and we had a purpose because we thought that ownership of the apartment was something that was important in Croatian tradition and we wanted to solve the citizens' property over the apartment and that's why we started with various visions. All that happened later, and these are credit slaves, regardless of whether they are kuna or euro loans, and now we see huge problems with Swiss credits, that this model has not attracted citizens, but they have all gone as soon as possible and we have more than 320,000 citizens who are not able to repay their obligations today. Most of it comes from housing loans. So, if this model was good, it wasn't, because apparently the citizens didn't want to save, they couldn't save, but I would have told the bank's offers speedily went into unreal responsibilities for what they were carrying the bank's guilt because the citizens wanted to get property as soon as possible. So in the Republic of Croatia, we estimated that we could tell citizens that they could be owners of the apartment and then we increased the credit sector, we will not talk about incentives for investment builders in housing, and then, given the enormous demand, we had twice the price of m2 as usual, and now slowly this value is coming down again. So politics, we're going to solve the problem of Croatian citizens with ownership gave us the result. A huge number of poor people, a huge number of unsolved claims from banks to citizens, and we don't even know how we're going to solve their problem. Why, because now debts are far greater than the value of the assets they bought with those loans. We knew all that in 2011. Should have gone through and found another model, yeah. And it is obvious that social policy does not rest on property, social policy does not rest on building apartments for the needs of citizens who cannot afford property. But we're still telling citizens you can be owners and instead of pushing money into housing for the assignment of citizens so that we can live through rent normal, culturally, so that this lease is a social policy of government, no, we continue to push into these programs. Thus, in 2015 with a huge number of debtors, citizens of debtors with an impossible situation because they will not be able to settle these debts, we still haven't changed housing policy as the backbone of every country's social policy. We didn't. Therefore, it is time to really say that we are unable to secure housing, but that housing policy can be solved by building apartments, encourage our construction to build apartments suitable for social housing and to provide rents that citizens will be able to pay for their basic living need. Unfortunately, in 2015, we have not yet sent such messages. In the government, we thought about it, it was the reason that in 2013 it was decided not to abolish the law because there were great resistances but rather not to provide support from the state budget. Afterwards, the government returned, the regulation allowed a re-incentive. In fact, any analysis of housing savings you will see that most of it is savings support, that unfortunately the largest part of that savings does not go into the purchase of land, or rebuild houses, or rebuild houses, or maintain houses and apartments, and at least does not go shopping. So we support the savings. Then we'd have to wonder if there was a need to support the savings, that I needed support. We had a bank competition that raised interest rates to attract savings from citizens, so it was quite an abnormally high price or interest to save citizens because simply banks wanted to withdraw as much savings as possible to have a better activity. Whether it's necessary, so we see that there are no more placements for the citizens or for the economy, that we need to encourage savings. So you're going to get the answer that the question is whether or not 50 million kunas in a budget that records huge deficits and a huge number of user requests that may be more important than what we have here, then we can conclude that the question is whether or not it is meaningful to spend these funds. Unequivocally, the moment the government defines what an encouraging social policy is related to housing and the use of the apartment, a solution could be found today to promote savings, but probably not at this point. Who's the one who should encourage building apartments for the needs of citizens? It is evident that these are local self-government units and that all the philosophy of support must go through the social policy of local self-government units. Can they afford that? Maybe two, three major cities in the Republic of Croatia, others, not because we don't even have a quality distribution of income tax, because this is a very important component to provide dedicated resources for municipalities and cities to have a truly quality social policy and to solve the issue of citizens' housing. Therefore, the law that we only pass because we have a regulation but also a law that says a lot about how weak our social policy is and that we do not have social policy. Because if we did, we'd have a well-defined fundamental social policy issue, and that's the question of housing. This law doesn't solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120039	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120040	Thank you. Yes, you actually systematically presented those thesis that you represented as far as I understood, as I recall and when you were minister. And I have to admit in basic settings, I could never really understand them well enough, and I didn't agree with you when you were a minister, and I don't agree now, because the same thing I do, so I guess by some model of life in those who are very hard to understand that model and that model of life in rent and that idea of deleveraging through real estate resolution or the release of a real estate fund that would free the economy. So I've never known it before, and I remember how you actually advocated that this form of simply these savings is sort of getting rid of it and that it's actually headed in this direction as you've been saying. But I would agree with you that actually this is now just a continuation of the same model that was about housing savings, only now that DPS is reduced by 1250 as much as it used to be, 750 and now on about 200 and some kuna. And what they might actually have been able to do, it's actually in some way connected in fact to that DPS and its payment to the realisation of loans from housing savings which actually is not the case again and which may be a pity, which is actually still this DPS isn't related to the realisation of credit whatever it is. Finally, many of our citizens may not be in Zagreb, but in some places where much cheaper real estate could still solve and solve their housing problems precisely through housing savings if they haven't solved the housing problem, and they have solved some upgrades, reconstruction, furniture purchases, purchases of some other things related to housing through these smaller loans that are actually possible through residential savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120041	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120042	Social policy is driven towards a larger number of citizens, and means it must affect a larger number of citizens. I guess we'll admit that in the Republic of Croatia, workers don't have enough resources to be the owners of apartments from their incomes. They don't even have a good share of pensioners who already have some kind of savings, etc. Therefore, the majority of Croatian citizens cannot be owners. And if we're going to talk about social policy then there's got to be a solution to how to secure housing as a fundamental problem of the welfare of every citizen. And that part can only be solved through rent, I guess we're aware that we're not that rich. That's number one. If we haven't solved it every other form is a waste of money. And secondly, what you're saying, we've seen the lack of logic of abuse, we can even say that, and that means that many DPS have used to increase interest on their savings and have never realised any investment in any kind of maintenance of the apartment or house or the purchase of an apartment or house. And it just meant if we really want to... Although I believe that this is a waste of funds if we have not solved the majority of Croatian citizens their problem of housing, then what is important is to say that these funds were meant to go to those who invest in the apartment rather than to the savings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These were always quarrels and quarrels, for the sum of 256 kunas is not God's understanding of what amount. And if we went on, I apologize. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120043	Second replica, Reverend Goldie Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120044	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Linic, I wouldn't fully agree with you primarily in that thesis when you say there should only be apartments for rent, not for property. We think we should leave it to every individual, citizen, that according to his ability he decides. The other thing is the model, the model that we're talking about, and neither is the model this worked out, nor is it. We have a credit problem today because they were very unfavourable loans, because they were foreign exchange loans, because they were loans that somehow burdened citizens who were more with their incomes when they entered the credit agreements were creditworthy. But in the end, their wars grew, and their wages remained the same. And that's what we have today's problem. Whether in this model that you're defending and talking about, that model should work very hard. But we still have to talk about owners who will rent apartments. At what amounts will these people live in this rental? So if someone doesn't acquire their property and doesn't have their property to stand in, they'll be on the lease, and then they won't be able to pay that rent anymore, and tomorrow they'll be on the street with their family. That's quite right, I appreciate that part of the social component that you're talking about, but you can't give a model a flat rate like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120045	Replication response, Reverend Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120046	Speaking of models, we deal with numbers. The average salary in the Republic of Croatia is just over 5500. When you have a salary average in RH 5500 kuna you are unable to secure at least the amounts for credit wars, not at all. In addition, we need to know when we compare Croatia to Europe that living loans in kunas are below 5%. And you'll always have a unfortunately state-run risk of 2.5 to 3% in that interest. Delegating a citizen to 25 years at 5.5% of interest means that the majority of Croatian citizens will not be able to repay loans. So much for numbers that you can seriously think about. There's another thing, and that's what I said about social policy and especially housing policy and housing being the primary concern of local self-government units. Therefore, if we are to talk about apartments that will be built and rents that should be suitable for paying Croatian citizens, then it is a policy of cities and municipalities. And they can be very serious to keep a square meter and a square meter price in construction but tomorrow and in the social quality rent policy, a quality long-term rental at acceptable prices for average salaries in the Republic of Croatia. It's called social policy. I have to say I don't speak casually, I've been mayor of Rijeka for 10 years and built such apartments. They live with a 10 to 20-year contract and decent prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120047	New replica, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Linic, Mr Djurovic, practically gave me the thoughts I intended to say. It is true that you are all the time and as a minister, so here and now in the debate you represent the same attitude about housing savings and the House Savings Act and state incentives for housing savings. And you state the reasons that you think they're justified. I don't agree with that much. I was also the one when we changed two times this law claimed that the House Savings and State Encouragement Act had won great results on one side. On the other hand, it really enabled the most favourable housing loans in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, the return of annuity to these loans when housing savings are at stake is better than the banks. The banks were just knowing that this loan was more favourable, and they wanted to place funds on higher interest there in 2005 and 2006 complicated in a certain way the procedure which is a little more complicated in this law than in ordinary credit and directed its clients to their loans. That's why at that point he started to drop the intensity of giving housing loans through housing savings, not because they're not the most favourable loans on the one hand. And on the other hand, I think that these loans, if they're unintendedly used, should be used to prevent the legal measures from unintended use of the loan, and not to be the reason for us to give up our housing savings. I'm the one who thinks you can get rid of it. The more this loan does not have to be intended for the purchase of the apartment, it goes towards upgrade, upgrade, equipment of the apartment etc., etc. So a project like this through housing savings that goes towards the citizens has certainly won a success and I wouldn't give up on it, though, it seems to me that the good measure that this law has provided is.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120049	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120050	If we go back to 1998. 600 million kuna or 500 million as much as was in the state budget, it is obvious that a significant number has been used and saved and that it has had its certain results. We're talking about 2015, when we see that there are no more significant investments in the apartment, and especially not through housing savings. That's the facts. Now, someone likes to talk on the basis of feelings about someone based on facts. 50 million is secured in the state budget, is that meaningful, is that good for solving the basic social issue of citizens' housing, and is this encouraging for housing that needs to be built? The answer is no. 50 million kunas someone says isn't much. I think 50-50-50 like this is all unsustainable funds. And I'm trying to say what I think is a better model for solving the basic social problem of Croatian citizens. Also, you don't need surveillance, the worst surveillance is this, it's not going. The answer was offered in 2013 when you invest in the apartment here's your incentive, but a bigger incentive. No, you don't. What does that mean? So it's no use building an apartment or maintaining an apartment, the point is to get money on savings. Therefore, only one change in payments in the use of funds and far greater ones. All this could have been solved if we wanted to because it's not bad either, away from it, it's good, somebody owns it, but it's not a social issue anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120051	The last replica, the esteemed Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120052	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker may only be in part agreeing with your debate, but in most of your debate, I don't think you're right. I've been retired for a long time and I've had an internship so I know what the problems of the pensioners are and it's known to everyone that the pensioners are first of all, and Croatia is famous for wanting to build their own house, and the house has been built throughout the working life. They weren't like today to be brave and raise 100,000 francs and suddenly have an apartment or a house, but they saved it a little bit, so they did something, room by room. And the core of this housing savings, I believe some have been saving and they haven't borrowed a loan and it's perfectly legal under that law, but the essence of this and the essence of this housing is that the three are saving to take one credit. Because every member who saves can't take credit because there's not much money like that. This is an ideal saving, about 5 years is being saved, there are about 30,000 kunas, and in those houses that the pensioners have built, gas heating may change the roof because it is already a turn or a facade that is modern and necessary today. That's why I think this housing savings is good and it's been good for years, it's not good that state incentives are being reduced every year but it's still more cost-effective than credits and engagements in banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120053	Thank you. On behalf of the club of independent representatives, Damir Cain signed up for debate. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected Goran Maric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120054	Thank you very much. The esteemed deputy with co-worker, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, every phenomenon, every law, all has its own face and face, and so on, the House Savings Act and the State Encouragement Act has both its own face and its like, has its own positive and negative sides as well as in practice. It is not disputed that this law has helped many during the year to solve their basic problem, the problem of housing and the rise of housing loans at a more favourable interest rate. But if something needs to be changed, then you need to know what's changing, and first you need to know what's going on. We are, this is 10 amendments to this law and only confirms that 10 we are wandering in search of what we want to achieve because each change was just a change in the reduction in the amount of state incentive funds for housing savings. If it's the same model, and in the beginning there was 25% of state incentive funds and today 4.6% of them say something to themselves. It can't be a good model that's imagined with 25% and at the same time that time is a model that's designed with 4.6% and nothing changes otherwise. So it's not just about the amount of funds being allocated, it's about the problem. If it is essential then the existing situation should be thoroughly analysed, it should be compared and simulated with the objectives set and set a model legally that will result in what is expected. The regulation should not have been passed on such an important law. It can't be a regulation without having any analysis just to reduce the separation of state incentives and we've achieved the result. It was, however, not disputed that the law had to be amended, but it had to be substantially changed and at most in terms of application. It is unacceptable to look at 18 years, I think since 98, 18 years of age, to see that the law allows for the use of state incentives and the one that is not legally envisaged and that there are no sanctions and that no one has broken the law. I don't know how we can look into the eyes of the Croatian public with such a law. Many have used these funds as a savings interest, but a fundamental question arises, has counterpart Linic asked whether this is a social law or not? It should be social, with a lower interest rate for those who have a problem solving housing problems or building up, building, adapting or buying a new apartment to make credit available as favourable as possible. But we don't know until today how much was used for this purpose and how much was used for that other purpose that it was just like interest on savings, some and 25%. There's no such analysis at all, let alone the thought of changing it. As a result of this law, this should be positively improved, resulting in a negative removal. We don't do either. It is said here to explain the assessment of the situation that in order to, this change is aimed at the development of housing savings. The purpose of this law is to generalise housing savings. This should not be a goal at all, it should be a housing savings to achieve favourable housing loans. The goal is favourable housing loans and not just housing savings, so it remains what we haven't solved and it has to be solved, preventing those who, or incentives from paying off the moment someone has agreed on a credit relationship to buy an apartment or to adapt or upgrade. In that case, only to pay off incentives and when preparing for next year, so many loans, so many contracts, is the total amount, then the amount of incentives should be calculated and the incentives given. It is further said that this change is modelled by the practice of some EU countries. Everything we've written so far and everything we've changed nine times so far is modelled by some EU countries and this model. So how can everything be modeled? And many of these countries, whose model is this bill, have a lower rate of interest in housing loans than we do in housing, and then we say it's by the example of those countries. Something doesn't match up. Social policy, yes, and the aim is to implement social policy, but it is not a social policy to increase interest on savings. The interest on saving or stimulating interest on the saving of interest cannot be a social policy. And that's why we've had time to eliminate for the past few years, this isn't the first time I've spoken in this way, and I don't know why it's appropriate for someone to continue using those who aren't meant for the purpose of the law. It is said that this is a change to strengthen confidence in the housing system. Wasn't that a purpose so far? What does it have to do with reducing isolation by strengthening trust in savings, but it will show how much it is prescribed without anyone reading what it says in one bill of law. It is said that the development of the housing system has a positive effect on the launch of the construction industry, so we have developed all the years so we have seen how much the construction industry has fallen. But we just keep copying. There's even this I'm sorry to have to say to these that someone doesn't know in the legislative bodies and those who pass all the bodies of this law, that they don't know what a finished verb is. It is said "the government of the Republic of Croatia will prescribe a percentage of the DPS for the housing savings collected in the following year on a proposal from the ministry by 31 October". The finished verb is collected, can only be saved for the next year. But I have to keep saying this because it's so foreign and it's not consistent in Croatian that it's terrible to read. It's just that when a man reads his anger more carefully, he gets caught. For example, the reasons for the adoption of the law under the urgent procedure of the bill are discussed, and the law is passed and passed. And you know what it says here? That we discuss and make draft laws. Two times in one sentence repeats, "in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are proposed to adopt this draft proposal." According to the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Croatian Parliament cannot discuss the draft proposal at all. And again, he repeats "the goal of making a draft proposal". So there's no point in making a draft proposal, and only two sentences of reasoning and such a man comes to stop reading, and he's not willing to discuss this, that he who reads the basics doesn't know. Building lending, long-term measures, and when something is set in the long term, then it must be unchangeable, some fundamental factors must be unchangeable. Set long-term, and we change 10 times, and we change 10 times every time we cut, we haven't even singled out one year. What's it decided to do for the same model is 25%, we're out 15%, we don't single out at all, or we're out by some formula now, and we're not touching the model at all? It's like there's no model, and it's the model that has one. If we had agreed and reached a solution in a way that when someone is saving in a housing savings facility they would also have the right to a residential loan with a subsidized interest, when the contract is concluded to know how much subsidy they would receive, they must know in advance. How is it possible now to stimulate savings in housing savings when one who saves and who tomorrow would be a potential credit user does not know at all what incentive funds he will have. Will there ever be them that year? Maybe not. So that basic must be set in the long term, and that would be set if 2% of the interest were to subsidise the state budget, the interest total should not be greater than 3.5%, then the order would be known, then it would be known. And imagine, with the law, we subsidize interest on savings, and without law we subsidise interest at the CNB for all employees because they pay the CNB 3% above 3% of the interest rate in all commercial banks all interest rates above 3% of HNB's salaries. There is no law at all about it, without any legal basis. And here, without a legal basis, interest on savings is paid, and then there comes a year when no payment is made to those who are raising the loans of the residential and should, at the most favourable interest rates, enable housing and housing problems to be taken care of. Obviously we have a big problem in this... As possible, in commercial banks in the neighbouring country, we have more favourable interest rates on housing loans than these credit users who are in total in charge of I think 5 billion and 900 million kunas over housing savings, as possible. It's possible because the substance was eaten by those who didn't use housing loans. And we close our eyes on it and we don't solve what's most important. So the aim should be to minimise the interest rate, it should be the aim of the law to minimise the interest rate on housing loans and not to maximise interest on savings, and that can only be helped, only if we can negotiate and pay state incentives only to those who have concluded contracts. And the state will be bound by the law to pay so much and so much for housing savings that they are obliged to deliver a recapitulation and review of all contracts they have and complete savings. A colleague Linic pointed out here, and I find it a little difficult not to charge the credit of the resident credit by looking at the official reports. Comrade Linic, we do not need to be at all concerned but this official report does not correspond to the real state. We haven't once witnessed official reports not responding to a real condition. Well, until a few years ago, we didn't have any uncharging loans at all in commercial banks. You remember here the debate when I warned you it wasn't true. Today, we have 56 billion classified, non-refundable or partially non-paymentable loans approved by commercial banks. And today we have that 99%, so 5 billion and 900 million kuna of approved housing loans, as much as 5 billion 800, and I think 20 million loans are fully charged. I'd like that time... Shows it's not like that, but I'm sure it isn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because many have come into difficulty and will show time as not rarely, unfortunately I was right and because of all the above mentioned club of the Croatian Democratic Community does not support any change in this way, let alone the adoption of such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120055	Zeljko Schamper, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120056	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, fellow Maric, you're going around again what's the point of this saving. You said the goal was housing loans, not just savings. And I'm asking you where those loans would come from and give if there were no funds. Well, I can't be 1,000 members and all 1,000 members of the housing savings company to raise a loan. From what? Well, it's got to be some kind of fund. Three thousand saves and a thousand can take out a loan. So who invested? It wasn't a good thing. The interest was 3%. At the same time, there were between 6% and 7% interest in banks. So that's why these state incentives are to collect a certain number of savings and raise one fund from which it would be credited. And, of course, those loans were far more favourable than they were living in banks where they were fixed interest here than when the interest grew when the bank remembered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120057	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120058	I can't argue like this because I just can't mate this way of thinking. The prerequisite for favourable housing loans is savings, cannot be the objective of saving but a prerequisite for achieving the goal. But the law has been converted to a large extent in order to only stimulate savings so that those who do not raise loans can also raise a large interest rate on savings. Now you want me to tell you something in person? I believed in a lot of this law when it came to '98. I brought it. My kids were one year old, the other wasn't even born. As soon as the other one was born, I paid for it because I wanted to do so, so I believed in it, and I paid both for each other and for myself and for my wife for several years. And when I saw that didn't work, you know what happened? I didn't even know, they paid me interest on my savings. But I'm against it, and I broke up, and I didn't want it anymore because it's not normal, it's not logical, it's against natural for state incentives to pay interest to someone who doesn't want to borrow, and you're justifying it now. I really don't understand you. But there's only one debate written, one replica more to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120059	Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120060	My colleague Maric, I primarily support the part where you spoke about housing loans and interest rates because as much as they had interest, I don't know that in one country in an environment in the European Union, the height was on residential loans. But there's something else that you want to look at in particular, and what you've pointed to is a problem in the reasoning of the law itself where the biller didn't find it appropriate to adjust the text. On several occasions, the text says a draft bill and we have a law of urgency. And the bottom line is the problem that you've been pointing to since the regulation was passed last year, which is identical with the proposed law, which was put into the procedure of the law in normal procedure through 2 readings to go and then not to adopt and not to put into discussion this law itself. And clearly after this summer break, we have now found ourselves in the situation that this proposal has been withdrawn in the regular procedure and has been put in an emergency procedure to practically cover the Government of Croatia's regulation and the motion has not been found appropriate or practical to correct certain errors in the text itself, which is really unserious when it comes to such a serious law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120061	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120062	Thank you very much. Comrade Tušak, I see you've got my intention of discussing well, but also shown and confirmed that it is accessible to a sensitive problem like this. The superficial approach in the bill of amendments, the superficial approach in the writing of the law itself, and that we wander around, we wander around all the time. What's the problem with finally saying once someone who has a savings savings in a housing savings facility according to the years they've been saving and the amount they have will get the government's incentive the moment they contract on the loan. And such savings would have to have a maximum interest rate of 2.5 to 3% and would have to be subsidized to that amount. If the loan is 5.5% over the housing savings bank then the housing savings don't accomplish their job at all, and then it's not a social measure. Any social measure that someone pays a loan at 5.5% interest. It's only natural in Croatia. Well, the profits of all production companies range from 1.5% to 2%. Of which someone will return 5% of the interest rate, from which they pay, from which they are employed, and then allow the incentive funds to go where they should not go. How many millions of kunas in 18 years, and that could be if it was once 500-600 million, it means 6-7-8 billion kuna, how much of it was paid through interest to those who never took a loan. I've confessed to my early years, but I don't accept that. If I'd known, I'd have found out later, if I'd known, I'd have come back. That doesn't belong, that's someone else's. It's meant for someone who's going to raise a housing loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120063	Thank you. We'll hear more from the SDP club and colleague Ivan Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120064	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. At the very beginning, I will say that the SDP club will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the House Savings Act and the state incentive of housing savings. For us at the SDP club, this is a positive example and we believe that the existence of state incentives to housing savings and the House Savings Act itself are justified that it has been proven by a series of indicators back in 1998 when the law itself is in force. In order to develop housing savings in the Republic of Croatia, the proposer introduces this law a variable percentage of state incentives modelled by the practice of some Member States of the European Union which have a long-term positive experience of a variable percentage of housing incentives. Indeed, the application of the House Savings Act and the state incentive of housing savings came into effect on 1 January 1998 in far different circumstances than they did in the last 6 years. He's been changing regulations and conditions all these years. The conditions, standards and procedures for granting and using state incentive funds have been prescribed since 1998 and other provisions of the law itself have been prescribed. Furthermore, it should be said at all what a housing savings is and what it represents in the Republic of Croatia today. The housing savings are not only in our country but also in all countries a special form of dedicated savings with state incentives. It is often present at attractive interest rates. After the end of the housing savings with regular payment, users acquire the right to a more favourable housing loan and, as colleagues have said so far, with the usual fixed interest rate and low repayment rates. In Croatia, there are several housing savings facilities where many citizens of the Republic of Croatia have open housing savings. By the end of 2013, there were words here from nearly 800,000 such contracts with different savings. In the case of housing savings in the Republic of Croatia, it is possible to raise deposits without restrictions and freely dispose of funds increased by interest and state incentives during the period of living savings of 5 years. Already today, in this debate here in the Assembly, questions were raised about how right this is, that is, what is the purpose and purpose of living savings in the Republic of Croatia. According to some tradition that is highlighted here, it is indeed the purpose of providing more favourable savings for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to enable more favourable lending and acquisition of new properties, most often the first real estate. And therefore it is no wonder that it is also possible to freely dispose of the money paid by interest and state incentives because it often happens that in Croatian families people live together in households that make up several generations. Most often in the Republic of Croatia families live in family homes where new housing units for younger family members are created by building or some new housing arrangements. In these cases, it is also enough for the locals to save together through the possibility of a housing savings facility, to put together profits and money and actually help younger members of their family, to create a new Homeland War within the already existing housing units. Then there is no question whether a new debt loan is needed, perhaps this cash money, which has been saved and increased over 5 years for interest and state incentives, may be enough to build up, change the carpentry or something that this family needs to get home. One of the main features of housing products is its availability. This is exactly what we are talking about when we say that housing savings can be negotiated by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but they could and could be done by cities and municipalities. For the family, it is important that minors can also have housing contracts and achieve state incentives. In the full amount of State incentive funds is obtained or realised at 5000 kuna per year. In addition to shopping as I said living space credit for a residential savings bank can also be used for construction, adaptation, equipment of a residential facility. In the Republic of Croatia, the concept of so-called family savings as a special product for the exploitation of maximum state incentives, in which all family members save. Since the introduction of the housing savings itself in '98. Until today's legislative proposal, the amount of state incentives has been determined as a fixed percentage of which has so far been reduced several times. Introducing housing savings from 1 January '98. State incentives were often mentioned here 25% of the amount of available housing savings, which in this case meant that at 5,000 kunas saved in a year, 1250 kunas of additional incentive, state incentives were received, and I am sure we all remember that period together and that we were all opening housing policies together at that time. Of course, by amending the House Savings Act that took place in '98. to this day, several times and reduced the percentage of state incentives from 25% to 15%, and in 2013 from 15% to 10%, 2014 there were no incentives for housing, and from 1 January to 31.12.2014, as I stress, are not paid out of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. This bill in the SDP, i.e. the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia, is considered positive, we consider it a good proposal and see the positive side of what the Croatian Government's proposal here proposes. Indeed, in this variable incentive on housing savings that we can freely say is probably the most significant reform of the system itself from 1998 to today. Positive effects for all stakeholders are evident. There are also various indicators of analysis available to the Republic of Croatia by all interested parties. There is even one analysis from August 2013, an analysis of the housing savings incentive system in Croatia, developed by the Institute of Public Finance, which shows what are the opportunities, what are the advantages and what are the benefits of encouraging savings and state incentives. It is therefore safe to stress that, in any case, it is about creating a stable legislative framework, that it is also developing a system of housing savings, and that in general it should also be fertilised with a positive effect on gross social product and public income. It is clear, however, that there is an increase in the return of funds to the state budget compared to the incentives paid. So it is said from this analysis that on one kuna from the state budget, we return as much as two kunas to the same. The housing savings system is stabilised in the long term and optimised by creating trust in the savings. We're motivated as saving to contribute through stimulating savings, because that's how we create new sources of funds for housing savings. And this particular analysis already mentioned in August 2013 highlights examples of other countries and says, quotes: "How is the existence of savings that do not use credit at the end of housing a necessary prerequisite for the functioning of the system in the state-enhancing housing model can be installed also a flexible component of incentives that would serve to reward savings." So there's no point in housing savings if it means she's essentially losing sense if one credit would come from every housing policy. Here is also the goal of a series of housing savings and, in fact, that housing loans are as favourable as possible, more accessible and certain, and that one of the social components was present. Since the start of work through this housing system, almost 800,000 citizens have gone through, and in 2013 the total amount of state incentives paid was EUR 2 billion. In 2013, out of 800 thousand housing savings, a request for the payment of state incentives was submitted by 370,000, which is indeed a respectable number of savings in the Republic of Croatia that meet their obligations to the housing savings company. And it is clear that it is a product that is in the interest of Croatian citizens, that it is a product that is in line with the needs of the market and that, in any case, it is a product that can provide one stability for obtaining a more favourable loan, primarily a housing loan or credit that will improve housing in the Republic of Croatia. Not necessarily buy new properties but edit existing, upgrade or resolve housing issues. It is therefore very important for us at the SDP club to stress that the development of the housing savings system also has a positive effect on the launch of all other segments, economic segments in the Republic of Croatia, that, at the same time, not only by encouraging savings but also by encouraging consumption, positive shifts are made. We hope that the incentives gained through the decisions of this law will also be possible and linked to the new incentives that apply to construction and construction for energy efficiency. And we believe that the benefit for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will thus be multiple. Therefore, in the SDP club, we support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120065	Thank you very much. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. First order of business, colleague Zlatko Tušak. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of ORAH representative club colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120067	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Deputy Minister has no one from the ministry, a respected colleague and fellow MPs. The law on housing savings and state incentives for housing is a law that concerns a large number of people because I have seen, according to some data, that about 550,000 have those who save in the housing savings and use state incentives. But what I wanted to say at the beginning, and I'm sorry that there are no deputy ministers here, this amendment of the law is addressed to emergency procedures, and the law is the same as the regulation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted last year, and I mean it 17.12. No, I'm sorry, 23.12.2014, and 17.12 was sent, I guess, I don't know exactly. But what I wanted to say was that it was practically a few days ago that he ended up working on the Parliament before the break and independently of that, the government used that power to pass through a regulation to amend this law and after that this law was released in the regular procedure of 2.07. at the 18th session of the Croatian Parliament. After a break, this proposal was withdrawn, and now the emergency procedure was passed by the law. Why am I saying that? I am also talking primarily because of what has been said that there are certain errors in the bill's proposal, but also that part when we talk about incentive funds, because what the predecessors said from the initial 25% of how much incentive funds there were on those funds were after certain times, I think that in 2005, it was reduced to 15% and it was 750 kuna, and in 2013, it decreased to 10% that in the last year it was practically these funds and it wasn't. And clearly, in 2012 about 200 million kunas were paid for those funds, 119 million kuna was paid for 2013, while in 2014 there was nothing. According to this proposal, around 50 million kuna or a maximum of 245 kuna should be paid in the following year for 2015 to the maximum amount of 5000 kuna to which the incentive funds are given. Why am I saying that? Because we have a complete one constant sequence to reduce incentive funds and practically in this way, although in one part analysts who have monitored this part of the incentive funds paid to resolve housing issues have come to a certain conclusion that 2.5 kunas are being paid back to the budget. It is clear through this kind of stimulation that the adaptation of living space, which builds, upgrades or practically solves certain issues. That's why this part when we talk about reducing incentives that have its own in a way and this formula that I'm going to say about later has such a sequence that smaller and smaller funds are given to those who are saving for or improving their housing issue or possibly buying an apartment or building. Formula, I am primarily interested in when we talk about foreign deposits or how it is expressed in the formula an average deposit on the savings of citizens. I ask myself a simple question why foreign deposits, why aren't they kuna deposits? I guess in Croatia there's a currency of kuna. Why foreign exchange? Clearly because foreign currency is smaller. And because there has also been a significant drop in foreign exchange interest and such a sequence will continue, that means smaller funds. We talked primarily all the time when we talk about both Swiss and foreign exchange clauses, etc., but what we have said many times simply in Croatia would have to be directed at least in that part of the law where it does not restrict anything and it does not concern certain questions that we are using the possibility that it should not be related to the foreign exchange clause, so I do not see any reason why in this formula, which practically determines the incentive funds, take a monthly interest rate for new foreign currency deposits that have been allocated over a period of one to two years. And clearly beyond that is added to this and the stabilization factor and then we get to the percentage for the calculation of the incentive funds that according to this formula for this year is 4.9 is the interest rates were 3.07 and the stabilization factor is 1.85. If we try to translate this now to certain interest rates that have fallen then it is clear that for the next year, and that decision, based on this law by 31.10, will have to be made by the government. Of course that part of the percentage will be much less, so there will be no more 245 kunas but will be much less. Why am I saying that? Because in the environment around Croatia and a lot of countries which, and a lot of countries use that part of the incentive funds, they are much bigger than here. We had not and cancelled a year and there was then a question at all whether or not these housing savings would survive is practical whether or not there is no incentive that there will be no interest and that they simply will not be able to survive. For comparison, if we take the incentives to be 65 euros in Slovakia somewhere, in the Czech Republic 100 euros, Hungary 280 euros, Germany also has significantly higher amounts, Germany has a slightly different model but also a much higher amount of incentives. And I simply think that this trend of reducing stimulating funds is not a good way to go especially if we take that somewhere I've tried to calculate that this interest rate is going to fall from 3.07% to 2.4%, that means 0.6% and that gives a clear signal inside that there will be a significantly smaller amount. And that's why I primarily think that this law doesn't go in a direction that should encourage housing savings and that should go through stimulating means and make it possible to either improve housing or to secure housing is one such solution that we give something in some way, but every year less and less. And I think that because of that and this particular solution that's in the formula is quite complicated, I don't think it's good even though the Deputy Minister said that such a similar calculation is in some other countries. I don't think we should base ourselves at least when it comes to our solutions that then we have to take care of them on our terms in Croatia, whether or not certain calculations and they are different in some countries where there are more stable conditions, where interest rates on certain loans are significantly less than with us. And that's why this OraH law won't support, we'll be abstentioned and we won't be against such a law, is it, in particular, that what gets savings is an incentive means something, but that this solution is not good in the law itself, and that it will have to look very quickly for a new solution in the interests of those who are saving and who, in that way, want to improve or improve their conditions, or possibly use funds to buy apartments, houses or other things that concern the housing issue. And clearly, with the quality of solving and encouraging housing issues, it is also a question of construction that has its own perspective in this case and which, if and certain means are adequately and used in terms of resolving the housing issue, encourages this branch of activity to grow and improve. And clearly here are the reasons why we can't vote like this for this law, but we won't be against it either, we'll be restrained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120068	You're a replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120069	Dear Vice-President, you pointed out that your colleague Tušak is one of the biggest shortcomings in this law and the fact that state incentives are constantly shrinking, but with such a reduced state incentive I assure you that housing savings will continue to be more attractive than regular savings in banks. So, just these days when we were discussing loans related to the Swiss franc, all the benefits of housing savings that are primarily reflected in fixed interest, with which loans are granted. So I believe we'll agree that since housing loans are granted precisely on long deadlines of 20, 25, 30 years, they should be approved at a fixed interest rate, not at a variable rate. So, in addition to the fact that so far housing savings due to this fixed interest on loans have confirmed as one with a number of advantages, I believe that the benefits of housing savings will be seen even more in the future when the price of money begins to rise due to the growth of the reference interest rates, above all, to EURIBOR, it is clear that this could or may be if such a situation happens, and it is a certain growth of the payment quota and therefore it is good to have an alternative variant in relation to the credits of the business banks, and I think that housing savings with its housing savings and loans are one of such a good alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120070	Gold shower response on replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120071	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, my colleague Jelash, in any case, I agree with you when it comes to a fixed interest rate, especially if it doesn't have a foreign exchange clause that is rabbit, so that in any case it would be very good when it comes to resolving housing issues. Will this savings remain attractive? Yeah, it's gonna stay because people still have a little bit more age, but I think there's a certain shift in that part. I think that's what my colleague Maric was talking about, is the current potential for incentives after five years people can lift up and don't have to use it at all for this purpose for what it is. I think it is important to reach the goal and aim towards incentives for housing or resolving the housing issue and to give greater opportunity to make these incentives bigger. Then it will benefit both the state and society, and it will benefit individuals, and it will clearly have banks through the form of loans and interest but not in a way to earn and to tear out citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120072	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120073	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Last December 17th, the government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation amending the Law on Housing Savings and State Incentives and Savings. As the regulation is adopted on the basis of legal authority, it shall cease to apply within a period of one year, it shall be confirmed by amending the Housing Savings Act. The Housing Savings Act has been in force since 1 January 1998, which stipulates the conditions of housing savings and housing loans, as well as the conditions, criteria and procedure for granting and using state incentives to address the housing needs of citizens or smaller construction operations in the apartment or house. Until 2005 it was a very popular and profitable savings even though the interest in the banks at the ceremony was twice as high. At the annual stake of five thousand kuna at the rate of 3%, the user received state incentives from 25% or at the beginning of 1,250 kuna, which were reduced in 2005 to 750 kuna and in 2013 to 500 kuna. For the last year 2014, these funds are not paid off, which definitely knocked down the interest in housing savings and nearly shut down housing savings, and perhaps this change still brings it back to life. For all these unpopular moves and the reduction of state incentives, the argument was that it was a speculative savings and that a small number of savings raises housing credit. Once again, like last year, I repeat the essence of living so-called housing. Family savings, which is that three saves, one can get a loan. It is a basic prerequisite that some colleagues do not accept. With this change, we are now introducing a variable percentage, as is said by reputation for the cracks of other EU member states. It is certain that the amount of that percentage and the resources will not be too attractive, but there will be a better variant than the amendment to the Law of last year where users will not receive any kuna of state incentives. The future will show whether this change will lead to a decline or a rise in housing savings. It is also an unfavourable decision not to transfer the funds that may be paid to more than five thousand kunas in one year to the next year. According to the proposal, the government of the Republic of Croatia will prescribe, on a proposal from the ministry by 31 June of the current year, what is the percentage of these housing funds, by collecting in the following calendar year. The new formula of the percentage of state incentives is quite complicated, it is not as simple as it has been known to date, nor transparent for ordinary savings, so it is a job for the Ministry of Finance. It is important that the savings will know in time the percentage or amount of these funds for each or next year. Given that this change is, however, in order to improve the conditions of savings and survival of housing savings and their employees, as well as to obtain funds for users more cost-effective than savings in banks, HSU will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120074	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120075	Thank you. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Honorable MPs and MPs. Not to repeat everything that has been said before and not to return to the historical review as it has been flowing with housing savings, the fact is at this point that it is only the confirmation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation, which has been in force since the end of last year and there is no room for manoeuvre to change anything. Let me remind you and the Deputy Minister and myself of, in fact, to introduce you to a part of my vision of this issue. In fact, the Ministry of Finance, which deals with a lot of things and indeed has a lot of jobs, had both in the term of office of the government and in the mandate of previous governments, met with the topic of housing savings. We were faced with examples of practices from some Central European countries that had a very successful tradition of housing savings, housing-saving cooperatives, credit cooperatives, in general those systems that accumulated quite a large share in actually borrowing the population to address strictly residential problems. When housing savings came and when the House Savings Act was passed at the time, examples from Austria were just mentioned and the system that exists there that would allow those housing companies to come, save and get to their apartment. That really didn't happen. What happened? So several major banking systems operating in the Republic of Croatia formed these housing savings. In some ways, they associate me even more, and in some ways they remain like those backup brands, those main brands that actually fill extra market niches where their banks don't cover. So we have a similar situation in telecommunications where HT has established a bon bon Bon or where VIP has established that tomato, and actually it's an additional brand, one additional market niche with slightly different conditions that takes another part, actually closes another part of the space. So these banks, in fact, the parent banks, over these housing savings still patched up a little bit and closed some niches that they might have left behind so that no more or less would happen to them on the market. What did not happen, and we remember from the beginning that housing savings and housing savings went wrong at the very beginning by advertising savings with a high percentage of real interest. And so it was from the beginning, at first it was that idea and what was advertised. The Ministry of Finance reacted either in different years, especially in the term of this government, later when it was seen that it really made no sense and that it was actually losing it and that it was finally about the indirect inflow of part of the money directly from the state budget to those savings banks and then to the savings of citizens. I mean, almost the same way, it's like saving someone with some interest still paying some extra subsidies, a state-owned one, with a cut in the amount of that fee, or a DPS, which is, as is said, reduced from the initial 1250 to 750, 500, so that today, it's less than 250 kuna. Without trying to solve the structural problem and direct the whole idea towards lending to the population. The crediting of the population is in principle not in the interest of queens, queen banks, the survival of the savings bank is because they cover I say these few percent of the total market and actually close the interests of their systems. We remember when previous Minister Linic started the campaign to completely stop that DPS and then those housing savings came out with different analyses, they paid those, those who made the analyses, about how they make huge profits to the state budget, how the effects are multipled and so on. I think most of us, I personally think it didn't hold too much water. But how usually it's the one who pays you, you usually write it in a way that you defend his position here somewhere. But on the other hand, I also disagreed with the need to put those savings in a position to stop doing business. But back to what I was about to say. In fact, I think in several terms it is a minor problem but relatively complex and the Ministry of Finance is not really, I at least gained such an impression in no mandate actually either somehow made or tried really to enter into the structure of this problem and try to bring market participants into the situation that these housing savings become more serious towards housing lending. That didn't happen. I'm saying it's primarily not an interest in housing savings. It's their interest to do business and close market... But the interest of the Croatian state should be that Croatian citizens save and that with some savings they come into a situation that under more favourable conditions than commercial banks can buy real estate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here I think there must be space, not now in this reading but in the next term to actually consider how to turn these housing savings still a little bit. It's not just a question, it's a question of certainty that a state incentive that should then be more connected to the realisation of the loan. We see that they themselves are in a situation where the confusion has already started, and they have started to borrow from interfinancing that they have tried to actually re-enlarge the amount of money in circulation and in some way justify their existence. Their loans were also more favourable as a rule than the commercial banks' loans especially because they had fixed interest rates for the entire credit repayment period and the interest rates are on average lower than the commercial banks. Some housing savings as much as, if I'm not mistaken, one of them was crediting in kunas. So that story makes sense. There was always a problem, of course, with them from the beginning, which took a lot of money to save, so 40% to get a 60 percent loan. Our people are raising a real estate loan when they're... some apartment, and they're not saving for years to watch what they're going to buy. Therefore, there were the advantages of a commercial bank, but I say these inter-financing loans have in some way opened up the possibility that actually housing savings are competing practically ad hoc or immediately, rather than after a few years with the loan. So I think that this should be supported now, and that someone who should be able to do it might be you in the next term, or someone else, if you're in the bench or we, who is already, are actually thinking about how these housing savings really bring them into a market position so that they can compete more significantly and more in the space of this housing lending, and not that they are today as they are, as a rule, just outposts and actually those institutions that cover one such market niche for their systems, and the state is all still subsidising together. I wouldn't agree with those who said it was something amoral or inadmissible when someone realised the housing savings, took the DPS, didn't realise the loan. It wasn't amoral, it wasn't illegal, it was totally legal and legitimate. However, the institutions advertised it but on the other hand I would agree that it was counterproductive from the positions of the state budget did not make any sense, it did not meet the objectives of... housing savings and that it certainly needed to look for a way for things to try to stay there, that there might be one more, that their market share would be increased, and that there was actually a place for Croatian citizens to have residential credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120076	And we're moving on to an individual debate. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120077	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, I've come to the hearing from two things. The first is that, unfortunately, this government has introduced a practice that was before and almost unrecorded that, at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet, a terrible number of regulations have been passed with the legal force and perhaps in this regulation, it is not a good thing that it first took place in the first session after the meeting of the Parliament and the second thing, which we have not considered in the past 9 months and as a legal proposal. In the context of this, we should say that this law creates commitments for the 2016 budget, not for the 2015 budget. And as for the law itself and the encouraging housing savings, I think we need to distinguish these past 17 years for several periods because listening to the debates without the intention of hurting or saying anything ugly, I think there is unfortunately a terrible amount of misunderstanding as the project has arisen, when the project has practically lost some power and we are now in some third time that simply the Government has to respond to the fact that it is at the moment that Croatia is in place. So '98. the years we all forgot, then the loan was practically unreachable for both Croatian citizens and Croatian companies. The interest rates were 18, 19, 20%. If you want, it was practically the first year after the peaceful reintegration and the last occupied area in the Republic of Croatia, so if you wanted to boost the economy you had to do something and someone suggested the idea of stimulating-living savings and housing savings, and it certainly had an effect in the first years. However, there in 2001, 2002, the POS project started, and the time was already starting, and then we thought that the time was historically low interest rates, although we now see what interest rates are like now, then it is now a historic time of low interest rates. When this whole story about POS and housing savings has grown to unsuspecting levels because I think those years have been paid off somewhere over 600-700 million for the annual incentives from the state budget. Then the budget was 80 million and you have to admit that it was a terrible burden, it's like you're paying off about a billion dollars today, a billion 200 million. So on the one hand you had the financing of apartments that were built through POS, on the other hand you had something that was a terrible burden on the budget and frankly speaking at that point many were investing in housing savings exclusively to get a high interest rate that they couldn't get in any bank. And the biggest problem before the change in the law in 2005 when we cut the incentive measures from 25% to 15% is to force those involved in this housing savings, which receive encouraging interest that they must use the loan in a certain way. But until today, this has not been used, and then it happened in 2011 and 2012, as we like to say that everything before us is no good, all of it has to be abolished, someone tried to abolish, but a key issue that all finance ministers have been dealing with there since 2002, 2003, which is the law on secure savings. Because if there was a sudden interruption in the subsidisation of stimulating housing savings or housing savings, many would find themselves in trouble, and especially when the economic crisis began and when the economic crisis, if any economic branch hit, construction hit. Then it would happen that virtually all the housing savings would fail and all their savings would fall on the DAB's burden, they would practically fall on the burden of the state and the state must damage its citizens. That was up to 50,000 euros at the time. So these are facts that no one's talking about. Perhaps, Mr. Deputy, it might be a good idea to have a series of information here from the Ministry of Finance that you have, then perhaps people would talk differently about it. Why? Because today when we talk about it then we can talk about it both pro and opposite, we can say it's good, we can say it's bad. When someone says that they deposit in the state budget, most of that housing building would happen without housing savings, most of it. Because then there was the expansion of construction, the apartments were being built, they were buying, they were all sharing loans, we were unfortunately discussing many loans last week in this House of Commons. Many on that economic take-off and took a long way over their options, counting on it to be that way. And so now we have a situation with housing savings where in December 2014, the government saw the situation going to some compromise solution, let's patch up the holes so that the housing savings don't fail, so that we don't have to cover, we don't have to pay for the savings roles of Croatian citizens. That's true, and that's a fact, and I don't think we should run from that fact in this High House. Why? Because in all the stages of the past 17 years, these housing savings had their own positive share, and they also had negative things to prevent with other things. However, when you have political pressure and you have financial pressure that something might fail and cost you several times more, then you're usually a man pulling two steps back and looking for some compromise solution, and the compromise solution is this. Because regardless of the rate change, look at your colleagues. Realizing that there are 25% left and that if we were to use this formula, then basically at this point, the cost of the state would be double the cost. Why? Because in the meantime, interest rates fell, so we left everything on the same page. That wouldn't be 650 anymore, 700 million would be about 300 million. But since it's now going to an average interest rate, and on average you have those whose banks at this point are very interesting to finance at the lowest interest rates, and the highest interest rate is no longer a luxury of being able to afford it, so stick it up the ceiling, then you come up with some kind of, some amount that's acceptable to the budget. That's sixty, fifty or sixty million. The question is, in a year or two, when economic expansion takes place in a stronger part, and it cannot go without the recovery of construction, how much that amount will be. And these are the things that we should have talked about today in a sober manner if, in practice, on the last or the last day of my sitting, I'm talking about something that's been going on for the past 17 years. Because I say '98. It was a great idea for years. It was practically the only option for young people to get into a position to get some kind of housing loan at all and get to the apartment under more favourable conditions. Because I'm saying, that's when the interest rate for certain companies was 17, 18%. The Croatian state could not be in charge at the time, these are facts. And maybe we should say more about these facts, because I know that this technical law is what it is. But next year, the government will have to go with one, and I'll end up with a detailed evaluation and an assessment of what to do with housing savings and what direction it's going to go. Because I repeat one project to me, and this is a POS project, we are very much funding from the budget of the unit of local self-government and the state budget. So this isn't just a technical point. I sincerely hope that, in the future of the regulation, it will be reduced to a minimum number and that we will manage to install in the Rules of Procedure that the Government is obliged as soon as the Assembly begins to hold legislative proposals, so that these regulations are translated into law and that certain financial matters and the same about whether parliamentary deputies agree or disagree at the parliamentary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120078	Final presentation, Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120079	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's listening very carefully to your debate, and I thank everyone for the debate, and I can say this introductively that with the larger or smaller parts of the debate, each of you can agree. There were also views on this proposal and against this proposal and abstention for this proposal if I am not mistaken. And as Mr. Schucker said in the end, it's practically a technical proposal, because the proposal already lives, so through government regulations from last year. All of us are saving and all the public is interested in how this incentive counts. That incentive will be paid according to this formula next year. So it pays off a year later. This decision, you had a lapus, would refer to the seventeenth not to the sixteenth year but we understood of course about it. Yes, this point should not be looked at insulated, and when this short technical change is only a single article of the law, residential housing is a much wider concept and only in the light of this law that has been discussed ten times is usually the debate spread. I believe that the second government, the next government, the second Government of Zoran Milanovic, will bring before you a package that will certainly include all those other encouraging measures and from Mrs. Mrak Taritas and from all other resolutions that are interested in the very point. But to go back to the law itself. I have to make a formal apology for my colleague, Maric, who said that on behalf of the HDZ Club, very theatrically about this mistake that had been made to us that the draft had remained. So we said that we had proposed this law in the fourth, fifth month of last year, that it had passed the parliamentary procedure, that it had not reached the plenary session, so there was a mistake that we had left a word of the draft where the bill was supposed to be. And if all the evil with it, here I was sitting up until recently in these benches of yours, there were lots of bigger and type of fellers and mistakes, so we survived it together. The point is, it's not in the text of the law. He has to be corrected if we miss it in some way. That's why I have to apologize on that side, but I don't think it's that bad. There were objections why saving, why just saving, why not investing, if there's speculative savings? Yes, we've had all these discussions for 17 years now. Because the fact is, and I think my colleague Schamper said well that one base has to be created and that not everyone can take credit if they're all raised then you don't have a base and then you just don't have to have that base of housing. They must have both the time and the amount of those who therefore only save, and that's probably one reason, not likely but certainly, which these incentives at the beginning were greater to create a wider base, and then to then encourage them to shrink and push towards optimal ones. It's true that the grate of those who had in critical speeches speculative savings, I don't know now I've been looking for the exact information here but my colleague with the papers went away, but I think 80 or 85% of the savings, maybe even a larger number, are restoring her housing savings. Therefore, the fact is that the programme itself is good and that these interest rates that let's say under quotes "earnings" make it easier for them to pay off. payments in the next cycle of 5 years. So I'm sorry that my colleague Maric stopped saving, and I hope that the others will not save unless they have the need for housing savings, let them save freely and for many years and for their family members because this is still a good product we are assessing. It is true that we also wanted to be more motivated in 2013 when the law was first passed and in 2014 that we were similar to the banks when we asked for a solution for the Swiss, in a way more motivated, and only motivated those who took these loans and took them, not only for the purchase but for all these other steps on adaptation, etc., I listed that in the introduction. And the truth is that housing savings and HUP, HGK and all their associations were against it because they said it was impossible. We want just this, we want incentives don't stop us in our market game, etc., etc. I also pointed out in my opening debate that there were huge differences, and there were critical tones. There are great differences in the business of these five savings throughout the years, but you can see those that actually work better. Do not make me attack some of them, and I defend some of them, but all those who follow can read that the banks had only disguises and filled the market niche, if that is absolutely necessary, as my colleague Djurovic said, who really had the noble purpose of living savings and which the product offered to Croatian citizens with considerable success. Their share, their market share, as nicely said in Croatia, best talks about how successful they were in all of this. Yes, on the one hand there was this extreme view that nothing should be encouraged, and if it must be encouraged, only those who have loans should be encouraged. On the other hand, the view was that housing savings are the best thing in the world and that they have a huge multiplier factor on the economy, 2.5 is mentioned, there are some studies with 4 etc. Of course, if it were a bit of a strained thesis, I wouldn't say it again, Mr. Djurovic, here's the second time I've mentioned it, too. The one who pays for the study has a small impact on what it will look like in the end, so on the other hand probably there are certain arguments for and against. But it is true that the model lives and we have called it in some European countries, but that it is indeed diverse. It is diverse in Germany and Austria, where it has lived for decades, is diverse in some Eastern European countries. They don't have all the country's housing model and he just has to find his way. Someone criticized us and why solutions from Europe? Yeah, some good solutions we see we've passed on so the formula that good solution goes slowly to its end. Some of the worse ones we've seen couldn't be incorporated into that law. But in the end line, yes, we are looking for a path that will adapt the needs of our real situation on our market. I'm going back to the first sentence again, and there's not just one law that can solve what's a housing policy, social policy, that's what my colleague Linic left to say at the beginning. Croatia is indeed in a specific situation both from the socialist heritage and from a large number of property owned by citizens and from the inability of citizens to accumulate their capital differently in socialist times than to build it into concretes, etc. And today we have a lot of unused properties, so then we have a lot of resistance and the only country that doesn't have a real estate tax but not to open that topic. What I was going to say is that we have our specifics, and that's why we have to kind of build a specific model. So we decided on this middle model, a model that gives this formula a certain stability, which therefore follows the trends of interest on the market and which, as counterpart Jelash said, is now perhaps somewhat lower fortunate for our citizens, for our country in terms of borrowing in this step when interest increases, when... It will grow a little, and that incentive will grow, but it is simply the most just to say so because interest is not administratively determined but it really follows market trends. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on that side also allows in some way and a competition and that these housing savings actually in the competition between themselves and in the race with commercial banks but not as hidden players, that's what we're going to try to do with your help and not encourage them. to prevent the housing savings from being hidden by the players of their large banks and to be only on the market to fill some holes and to do some things. We'd like to say, really, a housing savings model in that efficient model of my own, on the model of those who are better at life and have as many entities that can be useful and can be good on that side. So this model, I come to the end of this final word, underlines the sustainability of the housing savings system, takes into account the experience of the one that we have for a year around this variable system but also the experience of some European countries and builds it up I now say and legally into Croatian regulations. The motive remains that citizens are motivated by longer-term savings, and saving is a lot of good, five years. And as a rule, those payments and they're five years old and they're being renewed, I've been talking about it. That housing savings, and it remains certainly here, that has the advantage that a fixed interest rate is for loans. So planning is what it is for all the years to come. And the truth is that housing savings that then encourages all the legal purchase of real estate and adaptation and everything else that allows, of course, to have a positive impact if it helps develop and the construction industry, and small entrepreneurship and not least to curb the grey economy. And that's why it's especially important to us when we talk about these adaptations. That's why we used to introduce incentives in early 2000, so the same thing from the left government introduced fiscalization, but not to start much again means in this country to set up an even market game in a way that you can suppress the gray economy. It's not anti-enterprise behavior, it's suppressing the gray economy, suppressing illegal competition, and it's helping and helping and it needs help and what is standard on the European market at least on its greatest part is that if you have an equal match that you can then develop your excellence. And finally, not least, the formula is a complicated, hard-reading formula, I even gave up the introduction to explain to you what this KP and FS mean, but in the end, the government that brings it on the basis of data from the Croatian National Bank of course then converts it into actual figures so it is 245 kuna for this year, so that you save so that if they don't understand what the formula looks like, as for example I don't know how the television signal is transmitted but I know with a thicker know what the HD image is, which is a simple image. This is how our citizens will understand, too, those who decide to encourage housing savings for the next year. 245 kuna for this year at an optimal amount of 5000 kuna or 4.9%, for the next year as I said in the introduction that no charm will probably be there somewhere, perhaps a few kunas or ten kunas lower given the trends in the market. But anyway, we'll know that... so that's why I'm saying it. In any case, we will make it known to the Croatian public in this simpler form, so that it will know exactly how much this optimal incentive is. Here's hoping I didn't take too long, almost 12 minutes. You still have the law. Thank you very much to all who have contributed and to all of you who will support this proposal for amending and supplementing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120080	But you haven't finished having a replica. My colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120081	Thank you, Vice President. Well Deputy Minister I would disagree with you in one piece when you said that it was purely technical this part of the amendment to the law. I'll tell you why first. In the end, you tried in one piece and explained and it concerns this formula, and according to this formula data should already be fully known, you should come to this session today with certain data and here tell us what incentives will be paid in 2017 and will be valid in 2016. Then maybe we could talk differently about the law itself. That's why I don't think it's technical, especially because the government has to make a decision by 31lipads and that means in almost a month we'll know exactly how much incentive the funds will be regardless of what the formula for the calculation is. So here's my point. The law is not technical, it would only be technical for that period when it comes to this year and when we know the information about the adoption of the law, but the application of this law will be for incentive funds to be paid to it in 2017. And we didn't hear that data here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120082	The reply to the replica of Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120083	Thank you very much. Well, just for the sake of clarity. Yeah, I said twice I don't have that information, and I just don't have it, and I don't have the authority to calculate it, but twice I've said it off the record, and so have you, Mr. Tušak, who read this formula, you see that it's going to be about that form. Of course, as I said, we depend on the data issued by the Croatian National Bank and that the government will publish its decision. Well, maybe it's not appropriate for a deputy minister who's some of his calculations. At the end when we get those calculations, we'll publish them. I'm, like I said, unofficially saying that it's going to be here somewhere, so it's the main subject and the benefits of this law that interest be, that pardons be there somewhere, that they're real, that they're keeping some market position that's going to happen then. It is clear that interest in these six has not changed particularly during the past year, and it is clear that this figure will be closer, very close to that published in 2016. So incentives for 2014 which will be paid in 2015, and this is only about the 2016 law for incentives to be paid in 2017. Just so we know from that side of the payments I say in that year then only this one will be paid in 2017 and I hope that the liquidity of the budget, sometimes even late for more than a year or at least in part, now it goes a little faster, hopefully it will be paid in the first half of 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120084	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120085	Final proposal for a law amending the law on housing savings and the state incentive of housing savings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 909. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law and please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 23 votes against P.Z. law. No. 909 in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120086	We move to: - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the Croatian Export financing project with guarantee, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.901. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. And Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic will explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120087	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I hope this time I'll avoid objecting to technically explain this law because I don't see any other way but to explain it that way. It is therefore a law on the confirmation of a superguarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the IBRD related to the Croatian Export Financing Project with Guarantee. So it's a process that lasts two years and a month. In cooperation with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, HBOR examined the possibility of realising the commercial debt of the HBOR with the partial guarantee of the IBRD and the Board of Directors of the World Bank’s Executive Directors approved such a partial credit guarantee for up to 200 million euros even in 2013. Based on this, HBOR has collected and analysed several offers, rated the most favourable offer, the City Bank offer from London, and made a decision last March 2014 that accepts the bank mentioned with a partial guarantee from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. On 3 October 2014, the Supervisory Board authorised the Management Board for further operations and, to that end, the 7th student contract signed last year, I speak between HBOR and Citibank. This year, in 2015, HBOR signed a contract, so I apologize, this was just the signed documentation on the mandate. In those international agreements, it goes quite slowly, especially this way when the international bank asks you for more state-guarantee. So the contract was signed on the 28th of May, and the guarantee contract before you on the 1st of June of this year and we ask for it to be confirmed by this law. This agreement provides the IBRD with a partial guarantee of a credit agreement between the HBOR and the Citybank, a project contract signed between the IBRD and the HBOR shall be governed by the conditions under which the HBOR will place funds to business banks and end-users as well as obligations that the HBOR must pass on to the same. The project contract found that credit funds can be used for private-owned enterprises that generate export revenues with a maximum amount of credit to the individual end-user of 10 million euros, while the interest rate for end-users must be established on a market basis. So 50 million euros, 7 years is that loan. Taking into account all the additional costs and the reference interest rate on the day of the production of this promotion and the interest total cost of HBOR's debt would be 3.22% per year. We believe that this will also help the HBOR manage to place this significant amount of loan 50 million at the end. But I'm saying that under these conditions set up by the IBRD and the World Bank, it will be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120088	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120089	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a law at the end of the term of office that has never been discussed in this form by the Croatian Parliament. This is the first time the Croatian Parliament has made a decision on superguarantee. So we here in a certain way give the right to those who push HBOR into the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. Honestly, I'm missing one piece of information here, and that's knowing at what rate for programming, so I'm saying loans and loans as planned and the program gets HBOR from European institutional banks, so I'm kind of having a weird story here. HBOR is in debt with Citibank, a grace period although it is called slightly different here in this law, for three years, and the World Bank is actually the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is the financial part of the World Bank gave a guarantee for a part of the fourth year, for the fifth, sixth and seventh year for the principal, and the guarantee for interest was given by HBOR. So that's briefly said what this contract predicts. That's why I'm saying I don't understand why the Superguarantee contract when this is a classic RH guarantee on the World Bank's risk. So by nothing different there, the only difference is that HBOR got two guarantees. He received a guarantee against the creditor according to Citibank he received from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to secure itself for a guarantee, there was not enough credit rating for HBOR, but rather a guarantee from the Republic of Croatia. And since it is worth 50m euros, loans from HBOR from institutional banks are much higher, the interest rate is lower. Honestly speaking to me is not clear for two reasons why it went to this loan, regardless of which he is technically the way he suggests two things, one is that HBOR is dependent on the state and another thing rating agencies who like to play with countries like Croatia so they bring down a little, little credit rating so that someone can place more expensive funds giving us practical rights that HBOR has the same credit rating as the Republic of Croatia. So, if I don't owe more since I've only come to the debate, for the first time the Croatian Parliament has passed the Superguarantee Act, it's never happened before. I don't understand why in this way because I think HBOR is, given its position on its credibility, on the percentage of risk placements, on exposure to some companies, therefore, according to all those banking measures if any bank can get credit without any problems under market conditions. It may have seemed convenient to someone at this point because it was a guarantee from the World Bank, but if we didn't get a slightly lower interest rate because the World Bank was involved inside, we don't know why we had to take them as an intermediary if the City Bank wouldn't give HBOR credit at that rate, then the state could give the guarantee and we could solve this problem, and we couldn't go to this combination of superguarantee, etc. I say, sir, I don't remember anything like this being signed between the Republic of Croatia and any bank. But I'm saying, it's practically all signed, all agreed, we're making a decision about it, but the pure truth is to know some things. Because I'm still saying HBOR works well. Because when you look at us, we've reduced 500 million, 500 million more and some other million to cut the core capital decision that was supposed to be paid out of the state budget this year in HBOR and here we're talking about a 50 million-euro loan. So that's 370 and some million more, that's 200 million less than how much to be paid into HBOR's core capital. But I'm saying, sometimes you have to read these materials, so you're really asking yourself why some things are done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120090	Final presentation of Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120091	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's the question that Mr. Shucker asked more or less publicly, and I asked my colleagues when I got this item of the agenda that was practically prepared for the government. I was lucky that Minister Lalovec was away, I think he was here in the Parliament, so I had her in the government, so here's the... here so I'll just say it again, say it for the first time here and repeat what they told me, but I'm surprised, Mr. Speaker, that they didn't tell you on the board of directors, to you as a longtime member of the HBOR Supervisory Board that they didn't talk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, you weren't at that session, so there was some record. But now here's the record for me to say that this is therefore the first such EBRD transaction with a quasi-state entity, that is, in this case, the HBOR and such a task represents an innovative approach to market responsibilities, since it contains an 80 EBRD guarantee of 80% of the total debt of debtors. The very structure of the task, which is why I didn't want to bother you with it, I'm telling you this... A number of conference talks and meetings with banks, etc. have been carried out during the negotiation of the conditions of responsibilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since it's liquidity, why didn't we pull these two years? Since HBOR's liquidity was very high 50 million is not so... There was no need for new mergers, so we're two years behind schedule, as I said, waiting with HBOR's post. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in order for the state not to be burdened by the extra costs exactly what Mr. Shucker was saying. In addition, in the beginning of the HBOR's mandate, the cost of debt is reduced on several occasions because banks and the desire to get the job of the organisers has been reducing their margins and falling market reference rates. Thus, during that period, the effective cost of HBOR's debts decreased by more than 1% per year. So what are the positive sides? Therefore, the realisation of this transaction enabled HBOR to be present on the capital market and maintain relations with investors, diversification, which is any good source of funding, or a reduction in the concentration of HBOR funding sources. The conclusion of this transaction should strengthen the HBOR in the international capital market, and since this is the first EBRD transaction with a quasi-state entity, it could also become a viewing transaction or a finely spoken Croatian benchmark for the responsibilities of similar HBOR institutions, which would have a positive impact, therefore, on experts from the HBOR and the Ministry of Finance in the reputation of the HBOR and the Republic of Croatia, and paved the way for other state entities to therefore open more favourable responsibilities in the future. And these are the reasons, there are a few more that I don't strangle you too much, which is why this contract is here in front of you, which is why with a delay of 2 years and which is why we ask that the Parliament agree on this super-guarantee contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120092	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120093	Mr. Deputy Minister, unlike you, I, in any of my public appearances and anywhere and there were witnesses of your colleagues from the club in the German Bundestag when we were trying to explain that HBOR does not belong to the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. And my debate went that way. And your ominous remark about it, then you could have told your colleague Zgrebec that we were on the board of directors together, I don't see the point. But I'm just telling you again, if a country gives a guarantee, then those who want to trip your legs will be eager to say it belongs there. I will publicly say neither the Croatian highways nor the HBOR according to the calculations used by the ESA methodology do not belong to what they are pushing. Why? Because Croatian highways currently have over 50%... arrival. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And HBOR is a bank that functions in the same way as the German KFV and if the Germans are not included in the public debt then the Croatian HBOR cannot. And if we're going to give a guarantee for something that could have happened in a different way, if you're already taking me by the tongue then I'll tell you by the end then we give the right to those who are pushing HBOR into the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. Because if it wasn't, then the state doesn't have to give him a guarantee. So I was speaking in that context without the intention of calling anyone in one way or another. Why? Because here, very often, we have a political tendency to argue over the level of public debt. But also no matter what political option we belong to, we can't let some things push us where they don't do it at the same time. If the other members of the European Union are their developmental, investment banks which are... in the state are not an integral part of their public debt then it cannot even be HBOR in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So my debate went into this context because I said it already and while I was a minister and I've been speaking all these years as an opposition parliamentary representative for the reason I think it's in the interest of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120094	Reply to the replica Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120095	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I don't know why you've come to realize that my remark is a misdemeanor, it's just been a little unclear to me since I know how long you've been at the Minister of Finance's post and I know you've been acting responsiblely on the HBOR's Supervisory Board, so that your data has been unknown to you. But I'm often criticized because I'm actually too much to praise here from these benches so I always say that you're a good advocate and that you understand matter and that you're industrious, so then I don't know why you're here, that you're crazy, and good for you, she ran away just as well as I may have accidentally escaped. I always try to find the best. This is what I agree with you about HBOR and I say it in my public appearances, but this is not the point where it's being decided. You know well, we can speak here so I will repeat that I also think: (a) that Croatia must otherwise have treatment like all other countries, (b) that it is national interest and desire and the importance that the HBOR should not be in any case subject to public debt and statistical coverage, but unfortunately we will not decide you or I, at least we will not decide in these positions as we are but in much more complex talks, negotiations through EUROSTAT and through the relationship of the European Commission, etc. Yeah, so there's no confusion that one political option when we've already entered... would be to pump public debt and get HBOR in here, and the other no, that's not so, we definitely agree on that. But that it should be better and more efficient and more efficient and with HBOR itself, and we have said that, too, we must manage that, and that the HBOR must fulfill its development function to encourage the Croatian economy. We'll probably agree on that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120096	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120097	Final proposal for a law confirming the Superguarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development relating to the financing project of Croatian exports with guarantee, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 901. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 85 votes by and one vote with abstention and 26 votes against the law P.Z. No. 901st in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120098	We will discuss - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 913 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session, and Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radenovic will also explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120099	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you for your word. Let me also tell you a few sentences in the introduction of a proposal for this law, so the Law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, which is primarily here in front of you, in order to further comply the Croatian Regulatory Framework for the Capital Market with the acquis of the European Union and European standards, in accordance with the directives, in this case 50 from 2013. You know that the directives in this area are very common, you know that it's a very complicated matter, if some law has 600 or 700 articles, then you know that it's quite complicated. Here, I hope that I won't be criticized for that, but it's still about slightly minor changes with an excuse to come in this way by emergency procedure. I'm not happy either, but since the deadline for harmonisation is 26.11. this year, then we decided to send this law to you in an emergency procedure. What were the reasons for the adoption of the directive, i.e. the purpose and objectives that were intended to be achieved by implementation in national legislation? Primary simplification of liabilities i.e. the disbursement of issuers whose securities are placed on a regulated market, i.e. on markets, and in order to make regulated markets more attractive to small and medium-sized issuers collecting funds in the European Union, but with the same level of protection of investors. It means that the market gets as close as possible to SMEs as we often associate these two groups of entrepreneurs. The second basic mission of the directive itself, unless it is pretentious to say so, was to improve the effectiveness of the regime of transparency of reporting of issuers, and whose securities are included in such a regulated stock market, in particular in the part of the publication of corporate ownership, the publication of changes in voting rights. The third group is therefore strengthening the power to sanction and publish decisions on the measures and sanctions imposed by this law, which are therefore also being incorporated into the Croatian Capital Market Act. Something more concrete about the changes themselves. So far, there has been a commitment to the financial reporting of stock issuers at the quarterly level, the obligation remains, remains for all four quarters, but the deadline has been extended, and this is where it is taking steps towards small and medium-sized future publishers, that the period for the 4th quarter is moving from 45 days to 2 months so far, because it has proved more acceptable for issuers so small and medium-sized. The period of availability shall remain for 5 years, so-called quarterly reports, but shall be moved by the 4th quarter. As regards voting rights which is a second major amendment to this law, the definition of financial instruments to be taken into account in the calculation of voting rights belonging to a particular natural person or legal entity extends to all instruments having a similar economic effect as the ownership of shares or the right to acquire shares and is included in the calculation of voting rights on the issuer belonging to a natural or legal person and in order for investors to be familiar with the structure of corporate ownership. Therefore, the contribution of transparency of the reporting itself on voting rights. The third group of changes, as I said, strengthen the power to sanction and publish decisions, thus giving the agency the right and obligation to publish decisions to suspend voting rights. Therefore, the powers of sanctioning, administrative measures and sanctions are strengthened in the event of infringements in order to prevent possible infringements of the rules. The circumstances to be taken into account shall be prescribed, taking into account the decision to be taken. The shortest lines separate those who therefore trade in regulated markets, but then smaller than the most serious violations... not to tell you too much about these bureaucratic things. I said about the publication of the agency itself which is given and the right, in fact, the obligation to publish its solutions and the last, perhaps not least important to the provisions of this law, I hope that we are doing it properly, criminal provisions i.e. Infringements comply with the Code of Breaking which is in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so I hope that we will not make any mistakes if they do not comply with the new law. But I think it's going to vote the same day, and it's going to come in the same day, and then it won't be about that, I hope there's no problem. We've simply been anticipating the provisions of a code of violation that's also in the process. Finally, the proposed measures and additions of this Capital Market Act will affect the simplification of individual securities issuers' obligations on the regulated market with a view to facilitating primarily small and medium-sized issuers' collection of the necessary financial resources, i.e. for their financing and through capital markets. High-security insurance, so despite this larger number of participants at least equal protection for all investors. Improving transparency in corporate ownership and, as I said, strengthening sanctioning and only in order to strengthen transparency and the security of investor protection and all participants in the capital market. Here's the introduction, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120100	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120101	Thank you, esteemed vice president and esteemed deputy minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This legislative proposal represents, as we heard from the Deputy Ministers, compliance with the provisions of the European Directive 50 from 2013, with the fact that this harmonisation, or harmonisation, must be implemented by 26 November of this year and that is, in fact, the primary reason for the urgency of the adoption of this law. The law's intensities are to regulate the two areas of the capital market. The first area is the financial reporting of securities issuers included in trading on a regulated market, i.e. on the stock exchange. And the second is the area of administrative measures and sanctions. When it comes to financial reporting, the following changes are most important. For the issuers of shares based in the Republic of Croatia, there remains a continuing obligation to produce and publish a quarterly report for the first, second and third quarter within a month of the three-month period for which the report is produced. The deadline for drawing up and publishing the quarterly report for the fourth quarter shall be extended from the current 45 days to 2 months, i.e. 60 days, and the deadline for drawing up and publishing the half-yearly report shall be extended to the current 2 months to 3 months. These extensions are actually welcome, because they will reduce the pressure on stock issuers. When it comes to the availability of a report to the public for quarterly reports, the deadline remains unchanged, so for 5 years as the half-year and annual report extends from the existing 5 to the 10 years. This is also welcome to change because it will facilitate the inclusion of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the capital market, i.e. make it easier for them to obtain capital. All of this I was talking about were demands relating to the issue of shares based in the Republic of Croatia. However, all of those requirements, all of these requirements that I have spoken about in an appropriate way, apply to the issuers of shares based outside the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, those quarterly reports or, instead, statements by the management shall be published in accordance with the national rules of the country in which they are established. Further changes in the draft law concern strengthening the reporting obligation on changes in voting rights, with the additional arrangements being made for the existing suspension of voting rights in this proposal. Therefore, the measure of suspending voting rights imposes and implements HANFA as the competent regulator of the capital market and in cases of serious infringements of the provisions relating to the notification of changes in voting rights. Let's just say such a difficult case would be not reporting to HANFA on crossing the prescribed threshold of voting rights because of the fact that he's trying to cover up the identity of real property. The proposal for a law complements infringement provisions aimed at ensuring compliance with all the prescribed obligations, i.e. punishing illicit behaviour. In addition, HANFA undertakes to publicly publish on its websites any sanctions imposed or other measures against individual securities issuers, i.e. shares. In the exercise of supervisory powers, HANFA undertakes to cooperate with the competent authorities of other EU Member States, all with the aim of ensuring the conditions for taking sanctions and measures to achieve the effect of deterring the illegal conduct of the issuer of securities. HANFA shall keep an official register of regulated information related to the functioning of the European electronic access point together with a harmonised electronic reporting format to include in the network of national storage mechanisms and the publication of the prescribed information. In conclusion, I would like to say what is actually meant to be achieved by the proposed legal provisions. Therefore, the purpose of amending this law is to protect the integrity of the Croatian capital market, so this is the primary task, but also to ensure transparency of the business of the issuer of securities which is very interesting and important to potential investors in Croatia. Therefore, all information relating to securities issuers and their guarantees must be clear, must be understood in order to make investment risk as low as possible, because this is precisely the main cause of the narrowed investment volume in Croatia. The SDP club supports this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120102	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120103	Thank you. I was intrigued by yours on the identity of the real owners, so if you can help me out who are the real owners of the Evening List, the Morning List, the New TV and RTL if you might know. I don't know, so I'd like to find out from you if you know or if you can get relevant information about it, since we have such a transparent system, a system of ownership in the Republic of Croatia and I'm talking about the biggest media in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120104	A colleague, Ivan Shuker, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120105	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, I hope the two of us will now agree that this is a technical law that regulates, above all, the relationship between issuers and investors. How one makes life easier with longer deadlines for submitting certain reports easier, on the one hand, makes it more transparent for those who want to invest money in these securities to have a clearer and better picture and a longer-term picture. What is very important, and this is additionally regulated is the possibility to suspend voting rights, which is if certain transactions amending voting rights are reported at the right time and in a transparent manner, which changes the decision-making process. So, I only regret that the Croatian capital market is such that unfortunately these provisions will be very weak and very little applied. What is the biggest tragedy honestly saying I don't see what the next company in Croatia would be listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange to be more significant trading. However, there may be an opportunity to see in the past some times when Croatian companies were listed on the Stock Exchange in London and when their shares were sold on the Stock Exchange in London, so when investors from around the world had the opportunity to buy these shares, then we look slightly different to those times than we normally see. I'm telling you the truth, I hope to see during my life that this one company was listed on the New York Stock Exchange, but one company was close, but unfortunately it went wrong. Both you and your colleagues and colleagues have one question, Croatia is definitely the Zagreb Stock Exchange today, so some will find themselves hit and they will not like this in view of the number of trading too little and unfortunately this trade in Croatia has died but in some years when it was trading small Croatia had even two markets, it had a varazdin and Zagreb. And I remember how much effort it took to get those stock exchanges together because it just didn't make sense to be two. But they obviously served their purpose in some time. So, let me finish and stop stalling because this is a classic alignment with EU directives that must also operate in the Croatian capital market. And what's most important is what Hanfa has to act on. And now only in the end to end this question that fellow Djurovic has asked in his replica, one of the key questions for the state is whether he has the instruments to learn in time about who bought it or who sold how many shares? Because when we talk about a variety of social benefits, some rights, etc. Today there is a possibility that the acquisition of capital is far beyond what it used to be. And that is why, among other things, the OIB was introduced so that any transaction concerning securities that was established a register at the Ministry of Finance which was not established would be automatically recorded and some things could be seen. But unfortunately, some companies still don't quote on the stock market because probably those who are real owners don't fit to be seen who these owners are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120106	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120107	Well, thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Honorable MPs and MPs. I would like to agree with the predecessors that these amendments and the addition of the Capital Market Act, which are actually under the procedure, have no major doubts about them and that they are acceptable. So they're more or less technical. What is really worth talking about here is worth talking about the Croatian capital market and the state in which it is located because it is part of the Croatian economy in some phases and precisely the Croatian capital market was one decent generator of the process. We especially remember those years before the start of the recession that took place on the Croatian capital market. Today CROBEX is around 1700, it was at several hundred percentage points even lower in previous years. It's stagnating at 1700. According to the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the total traffic in the first half of this year was 1.7 billion kuna on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. So that's over 220 or 230 million euros. Transport even in the first half of this year, so where we record GDP growth, traffic is 20% lower than it was in the first half of last year's total turnover on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. All shares after falling sharply a few years ago stand on these very low values and very little and almost nothing happens and in fact the question arises, as fellow Shuker has asked, what will happen to the Zagreb Stock Exchange in the years to come? And those lists on the London Stock Exchange, I mean two companies that were listed, that was then, but that's not gonna happen anymore. I don't expect it so soon. So, I think that what is actually happening in the Croatian capital market which is completely dead, and we are talking about a significant growth in the Croatian industry and the Croatian economy and the capital market is dead and the growth of deposits is actually talking about certain structural problems that the Croatian economy and Croatian capital have, where I think that the Croatian state should try to find ways indirectly to involve itself in this and that this capital market in some way revives. For some of the values of certain Croatian companies that have been growing for years, therefore companies have registered growth and their shares stand for many years on equal or even lower values than they had several years ago. It's almost a strange process that happens with shares of some companies. I don't know in which way, but I think there's a certain space to think about what to actually do because you can't have an economy growth, you can't have GDP growth, and the securities market actually dies as it happens now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120108	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120109	So, fellow Djurovic, a state-owned company has the nominal value of shares as much and so much, after the sale of the public value of the shares has jumped off, ho, however, it is very interesting when the recapitalisation was carried out that it was carried out at the nominal value of what was in the books even though the one who recapitalised paid for the value by which this transaction had been made before. But that is why I say that unfortunately in Croatia there will be no significant listings on the stock market in the coming period, and until someone offers their securities and in such a way in the most transparent and best way to get the money, then the ownership structure is changed, until we can talk about some significant economic boom in the Republic of Croatia. Because private capital or stronger state investment, and it is evident that stronger state investment does not have only private capital can boost something more significantly, but since you do not have a practical one company that can be listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, issue a few dozen million euros and thus get fresh capital that will invest in something, it best says that all these macroeconomic indicators unfortunately rest on the environment and not on real financial growth and money pumping in the Croatian economy by those who have money. Because the healthiest work of the economy and the best growth of the economy when it's private capital. And then the state has no risk. Is if the state invests in something, you're in charge, and when that project fails, then the state loses twice. But if it's a private investor, it's his risk. And the state can possibly have some kind of controversial risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120110	Drazen Djurovic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120111	To agree with you, I was going to say that in a situation where investors on the stock market are very discouraged, actually by blowing up that huge balloon that was before the recession. Permanent changes in income tax, profit tax, the whole tax environment will not actually encourage them to start again in a slightly larger number again in the stock market. I think most of the shares there are still a lot of Croatian companies that are not bad, which are relatively good but for which no one is showing any interest and who are simply standing at the bottom. In this part of creating a more stable environment in which no new changes will be announced every few months, new interest taxes, new taxes on this, new imposes on it. I think it might also happen that people who have money are actually starting to get a little more involved in the work of that stock market. This is how we see that something from the government, and what from the opposition that tends to be the government, is constantly coming to announce that something new is going to change, and that some new conditions will be exaggerated without even talking about the real estate tax that still, announcements that have actually caused serious damage in the capital market.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120112	Lastly, on behalf of Proposer Igor Radenovic, Deputy Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120113	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a thank you to everyone regardless of the objection during the last discussion. I thank all clubs will also support this law, but the good part of the law proposed by this ministry has passed through this House and I think we have managed to overcome those sometimes political debates even though it is actually an important diapazon of topics covered by this ministry but we have managed to get to these, in the good part of the debate to even unanimous but also very often to almost unanimous conclusions which I think is good, even with this law. I agree with all those who have said that the capital market is important and, in some way, the driver and the Croatian economy, like banks, here I am constantly in this crisis about banks, I guess it's some PTSD syndrome of this Swiss, etc. and banks are also needed without banks and efficient banks and a stable banking system there is no good economic system, and so are the capital markets. But there is also the rounding and the global crisis that has led to certain shifts. The Zagreb Stock Exchange has united with the Varazdin and more... But the Zagreb Stock Exchange bought the Ljubljana Stock Exchange these days. The fact that it was, is that the Ljubljana Stock Exchange is a small stock exchange, that it's dead, that if I'm cheating on my colleague Schuker, it's not public, I think it's about 11 million, from the Vienna Stock Exchange that owned the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. According to this, the Zagreb Stock Exchange is expanding regionally, and it is one of the strongest in the Southeast European market. Now, why is the Southeast European market so weak, why is it far beyond those markets that we would like it to be a whole other topic. In any case, on the common European market and this law and the implementation of this law will probably help to position the Zagreb Stock Exchange in a better position. And I hope that we, we are a slightly smaller shareholder in that stock market, do not decide that we will help it to live on that side and to encourage the Croatian economy with what we all want together. Here's since this is the last law from the portfolio of the Ministry of Finance and I, as your former colleague, abuse this pay phone to thank you all for your good cooperation in this mandate that, here if I'm wrong, it wasn't intentional, i.e. What we in Zagreb say is something to be resented. And here we heard it on the other side, if it wasn't on the microphone, we remembered. Thank you so much, and I hope we all see each other together in another term and in any case in our lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120114	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120115	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 913. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law and please vote. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 107 for, 2 abstentions and 2 votes against P.Z.E. law passed. No. 913 in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120116	- Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 905; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the session. Do the rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Col. Slavko Linić and Damir Cain are not present, so their clubs lose the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120117	Thank you, esteemed vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. So here we had no introduction, this proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on memberships in tourist communities is only about amendments relating to the reduction of membership fees paid to tourist communities by 15%. Starting with the National Reform Programme and in accordance with the Decisions on the reduction of parafiscal burdens, the economy plans to disburse a little more than 32 million kuna in 2016 alone. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports all economic redundancies and all the redundancies of our citizens. However, it would be good for both economies and citizens to keep this pre-election time because it goes very quickly, the post-election comes, so we have a time when we forget about discharges and businessmen and citizens and then we raise the VAT to a dizzy 25%. Reduction of tourist membership sounds very good and much better than it really will be. It would have been good, however, if it hadn't been for such a superficial approach to the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. In particular, we should know where these 32 million kunas have been spent so far, which are expenditures that we will no longer have or will not be able to have, from which projects we will give up the tourist community. As funds are shared from membership fees in a way that the tourist community of the city or municipality gets 65% or in those most difficult cases 85%, the county tourist community 10%, the Croatian Tourist Board is clear that most of these funds will not get exactly the tourist community of the city or municipalities that are the biggest drivers and bearers of the tourist development of the region. As of 2008, tourist membership fees have been charged, and this income is increasing every year. In the Republic of Croatia, 296 tourist communities were founded in addition to the Croatian Tourist Board, 21 at the level of Zagreb County and City, 114 at the city level, 135 at the municipality level, 15 at the site level, 10 tourist communities of the area and one island tourist community of the island of Krk. Tourist membership fees in the financial structure each of them has a different meaning. There are those tourist communities that get as much as 96% of total income from membership fees. That's for example. Zagreb or those tourist communities which have only 14% of the same income, e.g. Istrian. It's a lot easier for all of us along the coast because our income is much higher than our home tax. These changes will make it much harder and almost impossible for continental tourist communities to work. The question is whether the reduction of revenues from membership will require a reduction in the number and visits to the promotional fairs. Perhaps that amount will mean reducing the number of employees so we will have new cancellations and an even greater number of unemployed, perhaps it will no longer be possible to organise a certain event that brings a guest in that period or one that finds himself and attracts him to come back to that home and recommends us to some others. It would be much more important to see the efficiency of spending money than tourist membership. Furthermore, tourist communities do not receive data from the tax administration in the manner prescribed by law and do not keep records of the number of members of the tourist community, requests for membership fees, or of the measures taken to collect membership fees. Tourist communities have no data during the year on the total number of debtors in charge and collection. The existing system of monitoring and charging tourist membership fee is not effective. Well, it'd be good to work on that part. Because the tourist communities get, for example, in 2015, the list of duties of tourist memberships for 2013, even the State Audit Office proposed that tourist communities request the Tax Administration to submit records of the billing and to collect membership fees in accordance with the provisions of the law. Tourist communities at local level and where there are modest financial resources for their functioning need and can be the bearers of tourism development, but with any new changes, especially those proposed recently proposed by the ministry, have regained new responsibilities and new obligations. How will it be possible for all these tasks to be carried out with less resources? And there is again decentralisation of income-reduction commitments. And it should not be forgotten until now, but rather the conditions of working in tourist communities when it is difficult to be both accountants and lawyers and translators and bearer of promotional material, as well as cleaner of the space of the tourist community. Croatian tourism today is the cornerstone of today's economic current and is the main holder of the country's currently extremely difficult financial stability, and is also one of the most significant resources of future economic development. Therefore, the existing situation needs to be improved, insufficiently used resources should be identified, created in a tourist product and presented quality in the markets. You need to encourage creativity, innovation, connect blue and green, network your interests, develop your partnership. We should not forget that 92% of our Croatian territory is rural. That is why continental tourist communities deserve special care, and these changes will be the most affected. The HDZ Club supports a number of newspapers that are being delivered and disbursed the economy, but it should now be said exactly who will and in what way will settle this lack of income in tourist memberships or which so far will not be able to do their tasks or what would be the most realistic regulation that will no longer be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120118	Tonka Ivčević, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120119	Dear Vice President. Fellow Members of Branka Juričev-Matinchev, you said that these amendments to the law are being passed as one of the means of pre-election campaigns and that we are reducing tourist membership for this reason. I would remind you that since the beginning of my term of office, this government has abolished or reduced 58 parafiscal duties, most of which in the first year of its term of office. You were also concerned about the work and business of tourist communities in part of Croatia that remain without part of the income. In this case, I would remind you that a report on consultation with the interested public was carried out from 8.6. to 26.6.05. and that in this case no tourist community except here I am correcting myself, the Kvarner Tourist Board did not comment on the amendments and additions of this law, which means that they themselves do not feel that this will endanger their business.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120120	Branka Juričev-Martin's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120121	Thank you very much. Well, here I wish we had sworn to the economy and the citizens in the first year of your term. We know in this week and last week that we had all the laws from Swiss to I don't know who and now we have this membership fee, and in the first year we know that we increased VAT from 23% to 25% that didn't go one percent. When it comes to the interested public, it is also very good that in the 7th month it went with proposing three new laws and gave up because the big pomp was and the terrain was very negatively responding to all three laws. This is just a half of one change.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120122	On behalf of SDP representative Tonka Ivčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120123	Honored vice presidents, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Now, we have a representative of the tourism ministry, so I welcome him on this occasion. The SDP Club will certainly support the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, since it is a reduction of another parafiscal burden, and all in accordance with the decision on the reduction of parafiscal duties in 2015, which the Government took at its session in April 2015. A list of parafiscal burdens with the established value of the 2005 reduction is listed in the Annex, and the list also lists the membership of tourist communities which decreases by 15%. This amendment of the law has just been done. In this way, the economy will unload for approximately 32.3 million kuna in 2006. In June there was also a consultation with the interested public and only two comments came from which one was accepted, which is to allow payment of tourist membership fee in quarterly periods. This tells us that the public welcomes this measure, and that the tourist communities whose membership income is basic have nothing to do with it and that it will ultimately not endanger their business. Let me remind you of what the government has done in the area of abolishing and reducing parafiscal burdens since the start of the mandate. In 2013, a sub-group was established for the analysis and review of the register of non-taxable incomes whose basic task was to establish and update the register of non-taxable incomes. Information support for the register was established in October 2014. Since the beginning of 2013 to mid-2015, the Government has abolished or reduced non-taxable payments of a total net amount of 449.7 million kuna per year, which is the effect of reducing or abolishing 58 non-taxable duties. In 2015, one of the government's priority areas of economic policy was the reduction of precisely these non-taxed duties and the National Reform Programme set targets for the minimum reduction of parafiscal burdens in 2015 and 2016 by 0.1% of GDP, and in April of this year the Government decided to reduce parafiscal burdens in 2015 with reduction targets in 2016 and to set up a Committee to monitor implementation for the reduction of parafiscal burdens. The Register of non-taxable duties burdening the business of entrepreneurs has also been established and options have been considered to reduce or abolish them in a way that does not prejudice the fundamental functioning of the central state, units of local and regional self-government and other users of these revenues. Data have been collected for as many as 161 different non-tax administrations and the number in the register is not yet final. The register does not include charges which only burden citizens and also do not include charges prescribed by the General Tax Law and the Law on Contributions. The total amount of public revenues in 2014 was as much as €8,413 billion, of which 6,413 is only the 20 largest non-taxable payments. The biggest non-taxable payments paid by entrepreneurs are among other things the membership of the tourist communities that we are looking at on this occasion of these amendments to the Law we want to reduce by 15%. That is why the SDP club certainly supports these amendments to the law because this will mean as we have finally said, discharging the economy. In the next period, the commission must define recommendations, calculate the rationalisation effect for at least 20 of these maximum non-taxable duties burdening entrepreneurs, and for at least 330 million kunas per year. I hope this government will succeed and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120124	Branka Juričev-Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120125	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Ivcevic, you are proud to say that only two remarks were made public on this draft bill. Do you think it is appropriate for the Ministry of Tourism to publish a new law relating to tourist communities, memberships and tourism by the end of the tourist season, which is up to 26.6. when we know that the tourist offices have to deal with guests, not new regulations. And as I said, it's very difficult to work in the offices of the tourist community when it's the same person and translator and carrier of propaganda material and that employee who gives information, and at the same time follow regulations. I think that's enough evidence as to how many people might have come forward in view of the term of publication.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120126	Tonka Ivčević, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120127	Here is counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev, these amendments to the law refer to only 4 articles and that representatives of people working in tourist communities had no objection to reading two pages of the amendment and addition of the Law on Tourist Memberships. However, I must also agree with you that it is not appropriate that the entire package of tourism laws has been placed by the Ministry of Tourism during that very period, however, here the tourist community has nevertheless engaged, made their remarks and the Ministry of Tourism has made one wise decision here to withdraw these laws in one way from the procedure, to give them one more good consideration in order to offer us good and quality proposals just based on the observations of the interested public. So here I welcome that the Ministry of Tourism recognized it and took steps in this direction. I must also welcome and commend the Ministry of Tourism that it has not given up on the whole package, that these amendments and additions to the Tourist Memberships Act have today come into the parliamentary procedure, that we will surely accept them and that the economy will eventually be released by 31.3 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120128	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120129	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the promoters, respected MPs and MPs. It is certain that there are, in fact, several different aspects in this subject that are present and that they are partly super-spontaneous, and that they are not mutually exclusive. So one thing is to reduce parafiscal burdens as a particular policy, and another is the functioning of tourist communities in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to reducing parafiscal burdens and pressure on entrepreneurs, I have always been and remained to reduce this pressure in all forms, not only to entrepreneurs but also to citizens, which unfortunately did not happen in the term of this government. The second aspect is the functioning of tourist communities. So the tourist communities operating in the areas of the coast, Istria, Dalmatia, Kvarner and the tourist communities share each other from the continent, except that they are in the area of the same country share entirely different topics, dilemmas and financial problems. And the very fact at all that they were categorized in this way and then actually divided has completely led them into an impossible position. In the town of Požega where I live, which has 30 thousand inhabitants, the annual income from the residence tax is 30 thousand people. In the city of the same size in Dalmatia income is approximately 30 million kuna. Of course, the tourist community has no big problem with such the same small town that it earns, and it will easily compensate for the growth or reduction of membership fees in the tourist community. And this one, which makes 30 thousand kunas out of the residence tax, actually a small one, and its total income comes down to a type of 100 thousand kuna or 80 thousand kuna, from which the events are to be held throughout the year, will be very difficult to compensate for this reduction in income that will be received. On the other hand, whether it's itself at all this structure, it's itself, all those who are bonds paying it, is it fair, is it fair, does it make any sense in many cases, probably and probably not, and in some other ways it would probably even be arranged in any way like it doesn't make any sense what the carpenters or the same people who are engaged in catering are paying remuneration for the KEFŠ quarterly regardless of what... They keep counting and paying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know what they're not paying for. Either the tax on the company because it exists, or the tax on the seat because the seat exists. Of course he has to if there's a company to be company headquarters. The company can't exist in the air. But as soon as he's got his salary and his taxes. So what I'm saying is, a 15% reduction in this parafiscal charge will definitely hit all the tourist communities in the continent, and especially the tourist community in Slavonia, where local self-government, where I don't repeat everything again, more or less everything is known about what the situation is, and then there are still those changes in income taxes that have reduced revenues at millions of amounts, so in amounts that measure in 5 to 10% of the original revenue budget, and now this comes, that comes. I mean, the state is here if it wanted to reduce the parafiscal burdens then it had to assume the obligation to compensate for the fall of the parafiscal burden, i.e. the loss that tourist communities would have specifically continental ones. On the other hand, I don't know if anyone here is clear because it remains unclear that not all can be placed in the exact same plane and divided by the number of inhabitants. You just can't do that. It is not the same way to approach the issue of tourism on the Adriatic and continental tourism and just divide it by categories, given where there are as many as there are. So we divide by income, so we divide by the fiscal capacity of each unit of local self-government if nothing but the number of inhabitants. So when we categorize to the fiscal capacity of that unit and determine some coefficients then we'll get a much fairer ratio. So if we want to try to even it out as a state. In this way, in this way we actually not only in Požega, but also in Djakova, as well as in Belišt, as well as in the White monastery, so everywhere, the events are organized and implemented with a budget of one, two, three, five thousand kuna. These are almost poor, poor events. Let us therefore try to see Croatia a little more just and try to think about how relations in Croatian society can be regulated in a fairer way. Of course they won't have a problem with the municipality in Dalmatia or cities with the reduction of this income. He didn't give them any significant share anyway, and when it fell by 15%, there wasn't any. But the state should have been here in some way, although it's very difficult since the model is already defined to find a way to help simply continental tourist communities on the continent. When it comes to why someone failed to comment, numerous remarks and complaints from all over a series of municipalities and cities in Slavonia are, but unfortunately, these people and relatively many of them are not doing their job. And they don't think it's their job to keep track of what's being published and to react to the changes and to supplement the law because that's really the problem. I'm sorry about that. And then they complain, they think they're not legislators, that they're not even invited to participate in what's completely wrong, but that's how they complain about why it happened. And when a public debate is published, then you look into the sky. Of course, there were the most objections about these residence fees, and that's where the Dalmatians came in, these poor people are silent, and in the war they're silent, and they're not going to do it now. Therefore, it proposes to the legislator that if this is already a matter of thinking that fiscal pressure is actually determined as soon as possible in relation to fiscal capacity in both the Ministry of Agriculture and elsewhere that decentralisation is being considered and not that income decentralisation is being considered rather than decentralisation and obligations are being categorised by the number of inhabitants, although their fiscal capacities are completely different. This doesn't make any sense, it just leads to further disintegration of Croatia and further growth of inequality that is growing in different parts of the Republic of Croatia. The tourism ministry should also take care of it. In this term, the tourism ministry did not particularly show up, we will see how it will be with the next ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120130	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120131	Well, here's my colleague Đurovic, I've simply raised my line for reasons because there's always always one and the same problem of getting into something like this and seeing the whole state. The problems and specificities of certain areas are not considered. That's the case we had with taking down the mountain-mountan status and sort of an indexation where we changed the law again so that when we saw the mistake and realized everything we were saying, it would somehow come back, and it came back wrong again. The same way it is happening here right now is not exactly a problem in large tourist communities, in large cities, municipalities, tourist areas that have sufficient resources to maintain this cold drive just as a tourist office. The original variant of this law was also the removal of part of the funds and direction of centralisation in the Croatian tourist community, which is an even worse solution than this solution they offered us. So we're going into something and we're not looking at each one of our own specifics. Of course Slavonia is specific in itself, that some kind of mountain wheel is specific to itself, Dalmatia, the coast and that each area should be viewed in a different way. This way we cut something 15% off, and then you're on the ground scratching further. But the fact is that all of these successes in this year's tourist season, with beautiful weather and all that together, have just been done by the people on the ground, so in cities, municipalities, in these small tourist communities that have been fully prepared and all the events and other events done practically themselves without any great help and transport here from Zagreb. That's why I answered the line, because it's pointless to talk like this. We're taking everyone off 15%, and then you're taking someone's 15% off, which is a lot, but a little bit. I always say what Zagreb has removed 2 million kunas where it is not such a big problem, as in some small tourist community I don't know somewhere in Slavonia or in Gorski Kotar, it takes down 200000 kuna or 100000 kuna of its original income because in that case it is practically in trouble and is then dependent on the budget of the units of local self-government in which it is located. So, at this point in time, at the end of the term of office, by passing some law or under the cover of removing any parafiscal burdens and encouraging the economy, I think it's immaterial.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120132	Thank you. Answer, fellow Djurovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120133	Yeah, well, I totally agree with you. If they wanted to help entrepreneurs more, they would have been helped to reduce their electricity prices or that not every crafter had to pay for industrial electricity and water than they would have for 15% a portion of the revenue actually generated by local self-government. And I'm saying, this linear positioning of tourist communities, continental and those located on the Adriatic, I mean, it really doesn't make any sense. It always goes and must go to the damage of continental tourism and to the damage of green Croatia. So let's go look for some other ways to put it a little bit together, not always go to harm. So how are you going to put in a plane I don't know a Umag or Vrsar I don't know with a Pleternica or a Kuteva, and they're somewhere in the population? So this one makes tens of millions of kunas out of the residence tax a year, and it makes several thousand kunas a year from the residence tax, I think. And then what we talk about and share with them all the coefficients of equal proportion and good, we have done the work. In this way, Croatia only further separates into richer and poorer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120134	Next replica, Maria Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120135	Thank you, Vice President. Representative Djurovic, this is not some classic replica, but I would just like to make a contribution to the good part of your presentation. Of course I agree because I also come from that area that you're just a little bit easter. However, the bill stipulates that, as you have said since 2016, all the bonds of payment of the tourist membership are reduced by 15% in all categories and in all classes, and that this is a disbursement somewhere by 33 million kuna. Of course, this should not be questionable, but we are asking a question and where is the continental tourism of those small municipalities, small towns and small tourist communities. Because in one part of here, it is said that this measure is definitely a decommissioning of a whole series of basic entities, but it also says a warning to all those who are dependent on membership. So they have to find the modes by which they will compensate for this which will no longer be incomed. How many of them will be able to compensate, especially those that I have highlighted in small places, small tourist communities. It says they recommend applying to EU funds. However, small places one that would eventually intrigue tourists will certainly not be able to do so for large tourist centres Down on the Adriatic. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] I'm sure it'll be an opportunity, but a little one never. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120136	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120137	Yeah, well, I agree with you. It is clear that they cannot apply for their salaries from EU funds, and therefore they have neither for wages nor for regular work. Local self-government units have very low fiscal capacity and what they will apply to, about what. I mean, that's it. So we saw even that division in the NUTS region went to the harm of Slavonia when Croatia was divided into only two NUTS 2 regions. It just wasn't and there's not enough hearing in total for this continental tourism, it's not a new story, it keeps repeating itself. If anything else here as soon as you see a picture of the fiscal capacity units of local self-government... that there are these tourist communities, especially those A and B groups, then the picture would be quite clear, in fact, what disproportionate proportions there are here and how many budgets these tourist communities are between I say again some municipalities in Slavonia and municipalities with the same population in Dalmatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the other hand, it'll help. But it remains the same way again, a slightly smaller amount to all those who have to calculate it. So there's not going to be much change in them and there's going to be a lot of damage actually in those environments that should be developed. But this has already happened during the government's mandate that they did not pay enough attention to what would happen to municipalities and cities, that they were only focused on the state budget and on those objectives defined at the state level.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120138	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120139	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Assistant Welcome to the Croatian Parliament. Our colleagues and colleagues are ahead of us with a brief bill, which is about amendments to the existing legislation that regulates membership fees in tourist communities. Yes, it's true that one linear reduction of 15% in all categories and the total amount in correlation with those 8 billion parafiscal burdens is not God knows what, slightly less than 33 million kuna is an estimated amount. And here in this case, as you can see, a lot of debaters don't come from whoever pays it, but from who they give it to. And the logic of talking about a parafiscal charge is who pays for it. Namely, what are tourist membership fees? Tourist membership is given by law. Who? Not only those who are engaged in tourism and hospitality and thus burden public infrastructure indirectly but also those who have entered their activities in the register as tourism, hospitality and all those who are engaged in complementary activities. And they have nothing to do with tourism and hospitality. Because among them are many companies that have made the registration just because they might be involved in it someday. And they pay that tourist membership fee. In my town, the biggest payment obligation for a tourist membership is the auto house. Until recently, I don't know what it's like now because the seat's changed, the other company's biggest payer was a commercial company. This is a very important question for them. Yes, and the question opens parallel to how much they lose, how much they get, does anyone get, or how much they lose local communities? But do you realize that this opened an extremely important topic, which is the sustainability of the existing system of local self-government units? And this is an ipso facto story about the sustainability of the tourist communities system. So do we really believe that every place that has a nominal tourist community really has a tourist product? So let's finally look in the mirror and see what the cost structure of small tourist communities is. Let's take the continent, start with the key data that 96% of total tourism traffic generates counties along the Primorje in Croatia. So, coastal counties. 4% of total tourism traffic in the entire country is waste on all other continental of which half makes the City of Zagreb. So everyone else, just 2%. Do you really think tourism organizes and develops a tourist community? If you think so, then you have a completely wrong approach to the idea of tourism development at all. It is not the task of the tourist community to create a tourist product but to promote it. It is possible that all those who have the potential to create a tourist product give quality instructions on what the market is looking for, what can be branded, how to communicate with the customer, or the guest with the tourist. It is not the task of the tourist community to create a new tourist product. So if you want, it's not the task of the tourist community or creating tourist events. If you look at the structure of the tourist events behind which the system of tourist communities stands, then you will find the anniversary of voluntary fire companies, city reviews of folklore and other parties of the closed type. The city survey of folklore is nothing more than a competition event organised to assess local cultural and artistic societies among other things and to place them on the county survey. They're taking place in a closed circle because that's what those who have come to those reviews see. Tourist communities regularly co-finance the costs of such events. It's not an open-ended event. The tourist event is the one that relies on the tourist product, tourist attraction and which brings guests. Are we going to realize that the small community cannot be a tourist destination but is part of a tourist destination. That she can't be strong for a brand and that she has to correspond with a wider brand. No one will ever come from the United States topleternica because there's a tourist community out there, no one will ever come anywhere because there's a hotel somewhere. There are 5 hotels in the world that are a tourist attraction that makes it a destination. All others are exclusively tourist infrastructure, what attracts guests is inviolability and attraction. The creators of the tourist product, therefore, are not tourist communities they are assistants, assistants, advisors, consultants, and above all promoters that is their task. The biggest loser individually under this law is the City of Zagreb Tourist Board because it has the biggest income from these funds and is 15% the largest individual. I think it's even seven million kunas, nine. So almost 1/3 of all these funds. And the City of Zagreb Tourist Board has recently co-ordinated the efforts of all tourist actors in the city made the biggest shift and the best quality steps in promoting the capital and connected those who created new tourist products. It's the task of the tourist community. And so we go back to that key story, which is the sustainability of the system. We will have to face the fact that the existing system is not functional and that it has misallocated roles. It is good that the Ministry of Tourism has given up going this summer and this fall in the reorganisation of the tourism community system, but it is not good that it did not do so last or before last year to discuss the whole matter in time and to implement it as soon as possible. No one can ever ban the establishment of a tourist and information office or centre from any local self-government unit, even as much as possible from European funds. A quality story can pass, but the tourist community is something else and from there it actually moves on the concept of DMO and DMS actually a new scheme that we will have to talk about sooner or later. Does it make sense that one island has four tourist communities or one? Does it make sense that the area where less than 5,000 inhabitants live has two tourist communities? And it may take four tourist information centres, but it doesn't need two tourist communities. So we will probably get into a situation already in the next term to well promote how we have arranged this system, whether it has been spent, when it was established he had his own why but time has shown that the trends and tourism development of Croatia are simply looking for a new framework and is looking for a more serious approach to promotion. And that we must leave the model by which the tourist community in one part of the cases is a parallel system through which local self-government leaders share money. It would be very convenient to make an analysis, take, say, an ad hoc hundred tourist communities and make an analysis of who all donated money for what kind of activity and who all comes forward and who gets all the money. Do you really think that the 100th anniversary of a voluntary fire company should be financed by the means of the tourist community? So there should be local self-government if there are funds, but the tourist community is not because it is not a tourist attraction. Opening and creating a museum of firefighting that is the second pair of sleeves, it is a tourist attraction which, for example, relies on 125 or 150 years of someone's fire tradition to do so. So we're going to have to start thinking differently and we're going to have to finally realize that there are other sources and not just parafiscal burdens from which we can finance system activities. It would be interesting to see how many of the county's tourist communities are, first of all, so, they're capacitated or tourist communities of large cities, how many have designed projects that went towards EU funds? I think we'd be very surprised and that story is a few years old, so it didn't start on 1 July 2013. Pre-accession funds were also open to a good part of the activity. When you see what all the new member states have invested in, in the last 10 years as regards the development of tourist information infrastructure, see what Slovenia has done? In this regard, Slovenia used funds to open youth information centres in which hostels and a complete tourist information service were provided under one roof and therefore it received big money. Are we the only ones open? Did any of the county's tourist communities reach out to projects of this kind? It's not. Furthermore, we must be aware that the role of the creators of tourist attractions is, in fact, turned to agencies in the future. They are the ones who tell tourists what is a product that passes on the market and how to package what we have in raw form to become a tourist attraction. Not the tourist community. These are professional systems removed from a state that will not be pressed by the will of local self-government or their leaders or any particular interests but by the will of the market. Whether I want it or not, tourism only works where there are markets. Where he's gone, where he doesn't listen to the needs of the market, he has it in his tracks, and it's not entirely significant. I will repeat, therefore, fully prepared for the replicas that have been reported that the HNS club of liberal Democrats will support this bill, but calls on all tourism actors especially in the tourism community system to consider alternative funding opportunities and to realize that travel membership funds are not the future for financing any activity and that they will continue to decrease in those times. And let me finally just take this opportunity to inform you as chairman of the Committee on Tourism what you got on the bench, that the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously supported the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120140	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120141	My colleague Beus, you've said so much that I'm not really two minutes away, and it might be 20 too little to deny everything you've said. What hit me the most and even may have offended me, but trust me, hundreds of tourist community employees and hundreds of local self-government unit leaders because you said they donated some kind of money to some kind of their own way or... You set up at the beginning of your speech who pays the tourist membership fee, and none of it does. Who pays the communal fee, the communal contribution, so you might ask yourself what's in it for us? And who's building the road, and who's keeping the road where someone's coming? So are the tourist communities. My colleague Đurović and I mentioned problems, and then you touched the Pleternica. My city which was among the 10 most developed according to... was actually in the Republic of Croatia 65 million kuna is not a tourist town, but has a tourist community. And the total income from all the ones you've been saying is about 250, 260 thousand kuna. And the work of the tourist community basically he only maintains a cold drive,... tourist agencies. Where does it come from, or who organizes what you said to volunteer fire departments, folklore reviews or something like that? It can be a fire company, it can be a municipality, a city, but once again a municipality or a city or a fire department must have this one man who will organize it and who should somehow have a salary for himself. You said that tourist communities don't create products, that manifestations aren't products. I don't know what these caterers would have, how many guests they'd have had if there were no events, if there weren't no concerts without posters, invitations and everything else coming. I think you insult people, especially the leaders of local self-government units when you say they share funds with their hands and hats.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120142	Thank you. My colleague Beus' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120143	Dear colleague Klaric, I speak firsthand and from my own experience, so I have not offended anyone because I spoke among other things with the experience of the president of my city's tourist community who has no note of any hotel. He's got a lot of overnights. What I found as president of the tourist community in what all the funds were invested in, from books that have no connection with tourism to fire parties, so if you want political gatherings, it's scandalous. And I can argue firsthand that there are more of these cases. I'm not saying they're all like that, but if you're asking me one of the worst solutions we've ever made in the Tourist Board System Act is that the head of the local self-government unit is the president of the tourist council. In fact, we have fully grown in love with local politics and the tourist community where decisions are made in tourist communities that are extremely incompetent that offend the common sense of tourist workers and professionals. You can think of yourself as mayor whatever you want, but you know less about tourism than those who live in tourism. The current system has completely marginalised the profession and introduced the big door to politics and I hope that the new proposal will cancel it. I'm sorry we didn't discuss it last year and bring it in, but this situation is unsustainable. It is known that the presidents of tourist councils, which are mayors, the mayors have a key word in deciding who will be the head of tourist offices, so the directors of tourist regulations. Therefore, they are the ones who also create the financial policy of tourist communities. Whether we want it or not, we're going to have to admit it sooner or later, and that's what's got this whole system stalled, stoned and turned it into some kind of extended arms of local politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120144	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120145	I mean, you pushed me into a situation I didn't want to be in, which is to defend the political opponents at the Pleternica who, as far as I know in the tourist community, hired a volunteer who works without pay for several hours, just to cut the cost for that one man who works in the tourist office. There are other examples like that. Of course, there are examples where really some small municipalities that do not have a product and do not have the capacity to employ one or two or small towns and where it is not a tourist product, nor a tourist need, but it is. The different interactions that are present everywhere with us, unfortunately this time has also contributed to the unfortunate loss of jobs, and then many in the policy from the community to the level of public enterprises think when there are no production jobs to become creators of new jobs, so we are witnessing this. Unfortunately, this happened everywhere from the last municipality to HEP or some agencies that were founded. What also sounded to me in what you were saying, that's when you took a look at folklore. Well, I don't think it's right that none of us should be, there are different people and let people live the way they think it's good and look forward to what makes them happy. None of us can be the measure of things by ourselves. So I have some criteria and I like something more, something less, and there's a big folklore event for some village. It's a big event if you want a 100-year-old fire department. So bring 100 Koreans and you'll see if it'll be a very interesting tourist event for them, but no one brings them.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120146	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Beus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120147	My colleague Đurović, in the first part you confirmed practically everything I said. So the law defines how much the tourist community can spend on cold drive and pay. Those who do not have the money, of course, cannot hire anyone, so there is a question of the sustainability of such a system at all. So if there's no income, how can you hire someone? Only if someone subsidized it. That someone has to be someone who's in the best interest of it. If there are strong tourist actors they will finance his salary. And as for these folklore reviews, so I wouldn't want to sin on my soul, but it seems to me that only two in Croatia have the capacity of top tourist events, such as the Vinkova autumns and the Djakovci alliances. Everything else we have to admit has a regional or local character. Yes, the folklore review is very important in any place, it talks about tradition, about originality, about its own roots, but it has nothing to do with tourism. And it's not the task of the tourist community to organize a party for the local population, it's not tourism. So when the Velika Gorica tourist community organizes something that will attract guests from Zagreb, then it is tourism, but if it entertains Goricane then it is not, so 5,000 gathered. It has nothing to do with tourism, it's a question of the quality of the city's social life and many others are responsible, not only for the tourist communities, but it's not their role to entertain people in their own place, but to create communication channels, that what already exists in that place if there are any elements that will be attractive to others so that through these communication channels it brings guests aside. I agree, if the folklore survey is in any place attractive to the Koreans then, be sure, they'll recognize the travel agency and make a profit on it, but as long as it's not like that, we can just beat her like our own local, good, nice, but it has nothing to do with tourism. Let's not put everything into tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120148	Thank you. Branka Juričev-Martin's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120149	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Richembergh, you've really been through a lot, a lot of things you've said, there are some things I'd agree with, and I'd like to correct you or supplement you. When it comes to membership, you said the city of Zagreb would lose the most. No, it will certainly be the biggest loss of Zagreb County because it has a total membership fee of as much as 96%, so Zagreb County has 96% of its revenues from membership fees. Furthermore, you mentioned that the car house in your city is the one of which your city's tourist community is most incomed and that it will gain the most in this case. I would add something that is best in this law, namely, it is known that members of the assembly are elected and have the right to participate in the decisions of the tourist community depending on how much of this is specifically a home and income. So there will be fewer tourist membership fees, fewer powers or fewer congregation members in that tourist community, which is very good. Indeed, because some of the other activities that do not have so much to do with hospitality and tourism pay large tourist membership fees that are above the amount of tourist tax so that the renter, not to say the smaller hotel house is less represented in the assembly and later on in the tourist board. Another cartoon, I'd go back to those fire parties of yours or folk dinners. When it comes to the fire show, when 300 firefighters arrive in one town for 3 days and the fireman is a guest and he will pay for the accommodation and pay for the tourist tax. That's why I wouldn't exactly rule out the tourist community and some kind of participation or co-financing when it comes to such manifestations that bring more people to a particular place at a certain point.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120151	It's a folk night or a fishing night that's in June or July.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120152	Answer, Comrade Beus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120153	Comrade Martinchev, I'll start with this last one. Of course, when you organize anything as a public event in the tourist resort where guests stay, it serves their entertainment. Of course, the fire department that's rounding up 300 firefighters from all over the country is a manifestation that needs to be supported just for this because they're going to be there for two or three days, but not local, not celebrating 50 years of some DVD. So that's the difference, let's understand the differences. As far as Zagreb County is concerned, I know people who work in the Zagreb County Tourist Board and I don't have one word of objection. But you know who I have an objection to? To Zagreb County, to the mayor. So Zagreb County, which has a God-given position, has the blessing of the nearest internal market in Croatia, which is Zagreb, has never taken its tourist capacities seriously. So how is it possible that you have one Samobor, Plesivica, Jascanic the whole area, how is it possible that you have a green winegorje and that it is not turned into a tourist brand? Well, that just means that local politics doesn't care about that at all. Well, it can't be done by people sitting in the Zagreb County Tourist Board who is a note of refugee in the City of Zagreb as well as all the institutions of Zagreb County. It's the only one who doesn't have a seat on his territory. It's in exile. So how will they take care of their own county when they're on the territory of another county? Imagine if all your services were transferred to Split, they'd get young. So when Zagreb County decides what are the priorities of its development, that it does not want the dirty industry but wants green organic production and wants the development of tourism, then there will be a completely reverse situation that will have higher incomes than the tourist tax and less income than the tourist membership fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120154	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120155	Thank you very much. So usually when something is established then it is defined and how it will be financed and what it will do, as well as the tourist communities. And it's always been he who pays him a lot, the one who receives him is small. However, the key question is whether the one who was founded is doing his job? I'll give you an example, but first I'll make a little introduction. So, what is the real purpose of the tourist communities you saw here from the debate of colleagues that everyone has a different approach, but all of this can be reduced to one common denominator, so we saw that the videos are funded, the slogans are funded, the various events are funded and all that is to make Croatia appear in the most beautiful light and attract guests. Thus, the Tourist Board shall call among other things a tender for certain means of propagating Croatian and Croatian tourism and shall set some criteria. I'm trusting me as well as the former minister and vice president of the government and the mayor and what I wasn't and the representative thought these criteria were the basic thing to get some funding. But a month and a half ago these crazy thoughts fell into the water. I realized that depending on who's at the head of some institution that's the basic criterion. Because look, beach volleyball in Istria is such a significant tourist event without wanting to insult fellow athletes that I can get a million kunas without a problem. The biggest sports event is held in Zagreb this year in Croatia, and together with 4 other countries the biggest sports event this year in Europe is the European basketball championship or EUROBASSKET, as we popularly called it, as its official name is. With the help of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I want to say it honestly, and in the end, I also described it in my opening letter, the brochure that was printed and received by all the participants, gave some 14, 15 million for registration. And if it hadn't been for that, Croatia and Zagreb probably wouldn't have been organized by the European Championship. Among other things, the Croatian Basketball Federation also competed for the Croatian Tourist Board's funding. And they were promised that the program would pass, because you're not going to go through with a live program of at least 70,000 people, and a few million people are going to watch it on TV, and that's what I'm going to say about it later was another event that might have been more significant than all that together. So, the Croatian basketball alliance did it all. But something happened in the meantime, another man came to the head of the Croatian basketball alliance. And suddenly this became the reason that the European basketball championship is no longer a event that is touristly interesting to the Republic of Croatia. And we don't write it because no one dares sign it, but the oral channels give us that we won't get that money. Under the circumstances, I became president of the Croatian Basketball Union, although I must thank some government ministers who have given full support and thought it was a manifestation that deserves it. Meanwhile, we were able to agree with the president of FIBA that the central opening of EUROBASKET was neither in France nor in Berlin, nor in Riga, but that it would be in Zagreb at Jelačić Place, a great term, half-9 p.m., direct television transmission. That goes to the website of FIBA, among other things. So he'll see a lot of it. Now look, the Croatian Tourist Board estimates that this is not a event that has a tourist interest. It's on the trail of what my fellow citizen and colleague Beus was saying. So, something to visit 70,000 people, we knew since the game in our group next to Slovenia, that 5 Slovenian games would be attended by at least 20 thousand people, that Slovenian television, unlike Croatian, would broadcast all the games. Croatia carried only Croatian basketball team matches, that there will be 1,000 Dutch people, that several hundred Greeks will come, that 1000, two Macedonians will come, and all this is not enough for the Croatian tourist community and tourism minister Mr. Lorencin, who boasts of the many tourist results, that the tourist community will be not sponsor but partner, the FIBA partner organised by EUROBASKET in Zagreb. I repeat, partner. One is a sponsor, and the other is a partner, because when you're a partner, then you have the right to have your advertising spinning around the field. So much for how funds are spent. I must say, I was pleased to see both fellow representatives and ministers and the Prime Minister of Croatia and Slovenia and the president of the state coming to the games. After all, it is a significant sports event. But I was deeply affected when the money didn't come to the Croatian basketball alliance just because I was president. It came to man to write a resignation at that time, not because some had invented conflict of interest because the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest clearly states, but purely because of this human moment. Because when I was a minister, I never handled things like that when things were of general interest. Unfortunately, our basketball team didn't score. It could also have happened that the team had entered among the four best, that the team had entered the finals and had secured a performance at the Olympic Games. So now tell me that the Tourist Board as a partner of that championship and that team would not have a great commercial worth 10 times the amount of 2 million kuna. E colleagues and colleagues that is Croatian truth, the Croatian truth about which money is given for local events. I say I apologize to my colleagues and fellow athletes who play volleyball on the sand, but if beach volleyball in Istria can get a million kunas, then EUROBASKET in Zagreb where players from all over Croatia play national selection I say, which was watched by nearly 80,000 live people and a few million like this can't get the money then you can paint it on 1001 cases in Croatia. Because it can't be said that in Zagreb he didn't feel the spirit of basketball. So the one who should have made sure that the spirit of basketball in Zagreb felt is the one who promotes tourism in Zagreb. So, we tried to put this spirit of basketball in the hall, through sport, through that sports spirit, and some others should have taken care of it, some others should have interested some tourists in the City of Zagreb to come to the sports hall and be even more at these games. After all, the French showed it at the final tournament. There no one asks why someone in the stadium who at one time turns into a sports hall has invested so many and so many hundreds of millions of euros. But they know that they had EUROBASKET, that next year they have seven European football championships and that it is a first-class economic tourist event for them. Which, unfortunately, was not in Croatia. Because if the tourist community had said it was a tourist event that was valid then some businessmen would have found it appropriate to be sponsors of the Croatian basketball team because they would have seen first of all business interests. So, I didn't say all this together that I was complaining, but about how the money of Croatian businessmen and Croatian citizens was scattered without criteria. Because I and all those who have cottages pay a neat stay tax and communal fees and all the other fees and we never complain about it. But I think for those who passed the glory of the Croatian state when it was founded, on behalf of the late Drazen, who asked the UN to recognise the Croatian state, the Croatian Tourist Board should not have done this. You simply had no right to do so, no one gave you the right, neither did your constituents who elected you and who voted for you because they also cheered for the basketball team and that's their team. And I must repeat the shame may be the Minister of Tourism, shame may be the director of the tourist community for that move they made. They insulted not only Croatian basketball players but all Croatian athletes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120156	Thank you, two replicas. Tomislav Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120157	We just heard a professional discussion about the needlessness of small tourist communities about local leaders who must be throwing away money and everything else we heard about the quality of the Zagreb Tourist Board and the Croatian Tourist Board. You have presented one fact that is repeated only unfortunately related in this section regarding tourism. We have fresh examples, a colleague of Martinchev on the day of the competition and published at the Ministry of Economy brought complete documentation and said she was late, and that day the competition was announced. I had this case that the Energy Efficiency Fund refused to grant funds under the exception that the facility for which the funds were sought had not provided evidence that the facility was existing, and for it we provided a useful '83 permit, a project documentation and a building permit with a reconstruction and a cadastrian plan showing that the facility was drawn. So this part of Mr. Beus Richembergh is telling me and replicating Mr. Shucker so he won't hear what I'm saying to him, so he won't know how to answer me. So in that part, I fully understand what happened to you. So, the criteria exist but the criteria are not exactly the ones we have been thinking about and talking about that something useful for Croatia, that it is something of a promotion of Croatia, that it will be seen by 100 million people, but the criterion is something quite different and it is not proud of our tourist community. And when I speak in my replicas, and about this proposed law and the reduction of funds, I return to that part of the story that generally at the level of the whole state without real indicators or criteria in different areas, and therefore I support this debate by Mr Đurovic, it goes to cut something 15%, and then it is applicable to all. And those who don't even have what he mentioned at the Pleternica where that part of the job is done by a volunteer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120158	Thank you. Answer, fellow Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120159	My colleague Klaric I said the Croatian basketball alliance did not ask us to give us money, but competed in a certain competition from the tourist community where they were told to satisfy absolutely all conditions. However, at the moment I became president of the Croatian basketball alliance, this event suddenly does not meet the conditions. And I said that, I told the minister, he didn't want to answer the phone, that the first parliamentary debate when it was that I was going to speak publicly about it, and I publicly told the press conference. These are things that can't happen. Neither is it primarily a private matter of me or anyone else, nor is Croatia a basketball, handball, football or any other team a private sport. The fans of these national selections are members of all political parties and all those who pay the tourist membership fee. But when we talk about criteria and categories, then you don't need to be surprised that someone says that some local event isn't the one that needs to get the money. However, for the sake of the Croatian public, and I have not been able to say this in my debate, the tourist community has 650 million kuna. That famous slogan half the world laughed at, half the world said it was a plagiarism of something cost about $11,12 million. And this is what the Croatian basketball team should get and that the Croatian Tourist Board will be a partner of FIBA and the organization of EUROBASKET is 2 million and 100 thousand kuna. So six times less than that famous slogan that, if nothing else, made the nation laugh. Unfortunately, though, we have made the nation saddened by the result, but we could have also made it possible to have a little more sports luck and to make the nation laugh and cheer up.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120160	Thank you. Young Marelić replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Shuker, it is not a problem to collect membership fees and these things, it is a problem for us islands and coasts in most cases when the collection of nautical tourism in the marinas, in the ports and because it is being charged now and for 6,7 years now, respectively, is charged at the port of loading and not at the port of residence. So it's ours, I'm just saying... Korčula, it lost about 250,000 kuna a year on that basis alone. But it would always be accepted and I think that perhaps the ministry will safely bring it in to solve it, improve the situation now, but I think that it should separate local leaders from the directors to be presidents of tourist communities because it is their burden and they take these jobs more or less seriously because someone else does it and there is still a lot of money going around. And another important programme for tourism development. Because there's a big problem, and the problem would be, I would ask the tourism ministry in... time to give us a report on how our tourist communities have worked around Europe and the world, how these directors have worked and which of them has been of particular benefit and that. Did they work more for their companies or more for the tourist community of the Republic of Croatia? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120162	Thank you. My colleague Shuker's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120163	My colleague, I agree with you completely that they are headed by the tourist community, chosen by those who pay membership fees, and then probably would not have happened if they did not give money to the basketball team. Because if we've met the conditions then suddenly we don't meet the conditions, you can think when someone 15 days before the sporting event tells you you won't get 2 million kunas, and your budget for that Eurobusquet is about 10, 12 million kuna. And now someone tells you you're not going to get $2 million, and before that, they tell you that you're going to get it, and you're not going to get it because it's not a manifestation that needs to get the money, it's because someone has come to the head of that organization that's not exactly politically-like. If it were what you say, and what I fully agree with you that in these tourist communities and units of local self-government and state it is those who pay to choose it but that they have to do business by some rules, they cannot deviate from what it is and what the unit of local self-government programme is, then there would be no such problem. But I remember some times when a lot of people were running around to take pictures with some athletes, and then when something negative comes up, they don't once admit that they've never seen each other and they're probably at home, they're running around, taking pictures of books, but it's very interesting that they attacked you when one picture came from Facebook, and then the other day they came back, but the ones who took pictures and took pictures with some of them were really attacked.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120164	Thank you. Next to discuss Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Simplified and observed any reduction in burdens is welcome. It means reducing membership fees, how to call it rather than calling it a positive act, but only if we're looking at the whole program very simplistically. I think this is an opportunity to say something in general about the Croatian tourist community and about the memberships of the Croatian Tourist Board. In order for us to have at all one picture of the system working, we often like to say here in the Assembly and read in the reasons of the law how it was decided in the developed countries of the EU, as it is actually prescribed from a more developed state. Since nothing about the Law on the Tourist Community is prescribed by any state of such a thing. I'd like to know whose experiences we have in tourist communities, I'd like to know from someone to compare whether in Austria the system works that way when we like to often mention these neighbouring developed countries and why this is a domestic universal art that hasn't been experiencing any more serious change for years, and actually it's time to say that this is an artificial creation and it's time to say that this creation, this hybrid institution needs to be based and remonted. Because to whom does she serve and what does she serve? Those who finance it serve them the least. Members pay membership fees and these members don't manage anything at all. It's a lot inverted, you'd even dare to say nakaradically. What is the purpose of the existence of the Croatian Tourist Board? We have a Croatian tourist community, we have a county, we have a city, we have a municipality and we have a tourist community in every village and everyone pays, every economic operator is obliged to pay. And you make a nice table with four categories in one direction, with three categories in the other direction, and you get one of those calculators that needs to be paid. Can someone show me this membership fee structure in any EU country of the Croatian Tourist Board? And now, of course, it's nice when we reduce it all, it's good to reduce it, it's finally someone's tax-delivery economy, but the whole economy is funded by the Croatian tourist community and its even self-will sometimes, and the most self-will of the Croatian tourist community. Is it logical not to raise the question that the Minister is the President of the Council of the Croatian Tourist Board, that he is the head of the unit of local self-government, automation and the law of the President of the Tourist Council? They're paying for the second one, and the Minister of the Council. So what are they paying for? Do they benefit from what they pay? So I'm going to allow even very superficially, some economic operators have indirect benefits, e.g. During the tourist season, trade has an indirect benefit. But what's the benefit of a wood processor from him paying the membership fee to the tourist community, and the Croatian Tourist Board, without anyone's question, and those who pay open representations around the world, and these are the most paid tenants, with the most expensive offices, with the most expensive rent, spend other people's money. So the question is whether forming congregations logically and is the formation of councils and presidents of tourist councils logically? I don't think it's because it's not influenced by those who pay. At the same time, from the residence tax there are also large revenues but the biggest impact is on those who are the most late or do not pay the residence tax at all. Hotel companies owe the most to tourist communities, and they benefit most from the tourist community and have the greatest influence on the tourist community, and individual renters don't owe almost anything, never to the tourist communities, have no benefit from the tourist community and pay regularly. What's the logic here? There is no logic in the Croatian tourist community. So I use this opportunity to say that it is necessary in this direction to change it under urgent, systematic change. It doesn't even make sense that the Tax Administration is collecting membership fees for the Croatian Tourist Board. Is that logical? Let the IRS deal with the charge of their claims, not others'. The wrong criterion is in almost every segment of the Croatian tourist community. And when it comes to the tourist tax as much as the tourist community is organised, generally at national level, how is it possible that some tourist communities do not charge the tourist tax in cash or have opportunities, or want, and some tourist communities charge? Imagine the tourist community to the tourist community, a kilometer away, one prima, and the other suggests that the one who signed up to pay the tourist tax neatly, but cannot pay it in cash but must sometimes go 20km in the car, pay the bank a fee, spend more than the tourist tax. And that the Croatian Tourist Board does not organise that all tourist communities act equally because it does not always stay tourist in the same city, it changes. He's just getting used to something he can't do next year. I can't really understand that the tourist community that is prescribed to pay her a residence tax doesn't want that payment, and whoever doesn't pay cash she doesn't want to pay, she makes people have to go 20km into the bank, wait in rows for two hours to pay the payment, and there's no one in the tourist community all day, no one. It's an organization. There is no institution in Croatia that is as thoughtful with its own idea as the Croatian Tourist Board. What is all the funding, in which all the money is spent, and in fact this is not the purpose and purpose of the existence of the Croatian Tourist Board. And this is an opportunity to ask ourselves what the Ministry of Tourism is doing, and what is the Croatian Tourist Board doing? One of these two is unnecessary, and as they do, both of them are unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120166	Thank you. We have two replicas. Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120167	In your debate, you have essentially touched on the key problem that is related to the functioning of the tourist community and the complete system of tourist communities in the area of the Republic of Croatia. I must admit that when it was passed to me, I must admit that when it was passed, it wasn't very nice to have to become president of the tourist community in my city, and I don't believe that any leader of the local self-government unit was very pleased, but here's the law that forced us to do so. And that was one of the solutions like this now. There's something going to be solved just to solve it, so now we're going to use the populist down the 15% because that way we're going to make it easier for the economy, so it's going to pay 15% less. And in that part already some kind of system that works one way or another is already a certain disturbance on the ground itself. And the key question is exactly what you said in the end. We have the Ministry of Tourism and we have a Croatian tourist community and a whole series of districts, per unit of local self-government. And now the question is, if it is organized at the level of cities, municipalities, county, if we have the Ministry of Tourism why the Croatian Tourist Board? Is it even hers for the sake of her existence to kill and do what she wants to do? From previous discussions, we heard some variations of their work. Now, if we're changing something in the law and you said to ask the question whether or not you need such a law. Is this the behavior that we've been doing here in the House lately, by emergency law-making, we're going to go to one point of that law, which is what we're reducing 15% to, this is where we give, to the retired, I don't know 300 kunas of Christmas at the end of the manades? We give this law something else, and then we get a few votes, we haven't really solved anything, we've already... [[Thank you, colleague.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120168	Thank you very much. Answer, colleague Maric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120169	Thank you very much. Mr. Klaric, I am pleased that you agree that neither is logical nor is it good that you are also the mayor of the tourist council, the tourist community. We have cases that the tourist community, said local units have, higher budget than the local unit itself. How is it possible for you to perform each other's duties in quality? It's just not good. You pointed out well that the Ministry of Tourism and the Croatian Tourist Board overlap with each other and in fact that they do not know the borders or the demarcation or the financing, or the obligations or duties. It's two parallel institutions that don't complement themselves, but that rule out each other in fact. When it comes to reducing these fees, membership fees, so it may sound nice, here we are cutting membership fees but membership fees are not to be paid in this way at all. Why is Croatia not a desirable investment country? So at every step of the investor or the one who deals with the activity of economic, economic activity or someone who wants to act in the economic field, he is facing a payment of some membership fee with which he has no contact or can affect it, nor is he interested in being a member of anything, so as not to pay a membership fee. What benefit does an entrepreneur benefit from? But when he gets here and then he has to pay for power and he doesn't even start building, he's got to pay the communal fee somewhere, like, he's got to build a substation, finance it, and it's not his station. So who's going to have to pay membership here, membership there and the tourist community who doesn't even know the meaning of their existence? And he can't even, your tourist community can't even report a private renter's bed, he can't even advertise [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120170	Next replica Mladen Marelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120171	Comrade Maric, you've got me mixed up a little bit. But mayors, mayors and commissioners are not desirable because it is not the purpose of their domain of work. ... other jobs than tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the tourism ministry is what deals with tourism and thinks it is also correct to be in the tourist community. As far as dissolving the economy we're talking about, we don't have an economy, now we have one motion for a discharge, and now we're against it. It speaks of the work of tourist communities, that it is a very good work of tourist communities and I think useful in the field if we have good administrative councils, if we have a good director of the tourist community and which is purposely to organise what it is formed for. And those of us who live on islands, we do tourism, family deals with it, I think it's pretty positive and useful... And we're talking about paying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You may not know and today it is a tourist tax, they pay with Virmani both in post office and in shops and in banks and are paid somewhere in tourist offices. But there's a payment going on anywhere that can make a payment. Let's not make a name, but we have to go to a bank 20 kilometers. I think today is allowed to pay in multiple ways and in every store you have more or less payment orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120172	Thank you, colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120173	Thank you very much. I didn't fully understand it because it was a bad voice, but I'm going to try and understand what I've been able to understand. You're interested, you think it's good that you as mayor be the president of the municipal,... Council? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then I apologize. That's how I understood. [[Intruder: No.]] I don't think so, because if you don't finance the tourist community, then the right to appoint your director. Okay, I'm saying, that's what I heard, so if I don't like it more that you said the opposite. So whoever doesn't finance he appoints a director. And what's the logic here? As for the payment of the residence tax, you may have neglected one fact that there is a lot of places on the Adriatic where there is neither near 30km nor mail, nor a bank, nor a store where it can be paid. ... There isn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And how is it possible to say in one place you can pay a residence tax in cash and in another place you can't right next to it. That's not a good solution. That's what I'm talking about. Especially where I fly I can't pay my residence tax in cash. And I have to go you know how many miles. So you know. As far as fees and payments are concerned, on a second basis. How is it not possible that we are not today, that we charge only on the Adriatic and do not charge in Zagreb? If the Zagrebanin has in one part, I will now tell you, if the Zagrebanin has an apartment at sea he is obliged to register when he comes down and pay the tourist tax. But if you have an apartment in Zagreb, no one pays a stay tax when he comes here. By what logic? Well tourist is also here, if I am a tourist in my Adriatic, then you are a tourist here in Zagreb. You don't pay your stay tax, I pay for it. Who do I pay for it? I think it makes sense that I don't pay for it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120174	Thank you. I would now like to ask Deputy Minister of Tourism Douglas Korac for final address. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120175	Thank you very much. Vice President, esteemed parliamentary deputies. This draft draft law amending the Law on Memberships to Tourist Communities was made in accordance with the National Reform Programme, i.e. the Government's decision to reduce the parafiscal burdens in 2015 and the reduction targets in 2016 and the list of these parafiscal duties is also a reduction of membership fees paid to tourist communities and is proposed to reduce it linearly by 15%, and the assessment is that these revenues will be reduced by about 32.3 million kuna to tourist communities, i.e. the burden of the economy. The important assumption I wish to point out is that the proposed amendments to the laws expect that its changes will create a better business environment and will reduce the administrative burden and these are business costs, and the tourist communities will continue to carry out their work in a good way, or the reduction of their original incomes will not significantly affect the quality of their work but will further encourage them to rationalise their business, which is also the fact that the tourism communities in the public debate of the proposal for this law did not have any objections to the proposal to reduce their original incomes so that we can practically say that they have made such a proposal of the law. The tourism ministry is thus also trying to influence the association of tourist communities in some major parts and we also support it with the programme Croatia 365 and through the establishment of PPS clubs where we have 22 established such PPS clubs in previous years, and this year their number is almost double, today we have 40. So these are PPS clubs or clubs before and after the season that try to promote in one more quality 6 targeted tourism products that we listed in the strategy, which are culture, enogastronomy, health tourism, cyclotourism active holiday and business tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120176	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120177	Final draft law amending the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 905. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 102 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 5 votes against the law P.Z. No. 905 in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120178	We continue with - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Breakdown, second reading, P.Z. No. 814 I thank the Deputy Minister and Assistant. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. With us is Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt. Introductory deputies? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and respected MPs. As has been said, the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code was discussed by the Parliament in its first reading at the session on 8 May of this year. The amendments proposed concern the conduct of independent regulatory agencies authorised to regulate relations and supervise in various areas, from financial services, communication services, energy sector, transport, etc. In this area, we are taking over or transposing the regulations of the European Union, certain directives and regulations, and these rules set the upper limit of the maximum fine far above our applicable laws, or our Criminal Code. So, for example. The Transparency Directive of October 2003 provides that a fine for a legal person can reach a amount of 10m euros, for a natural person a fine may amount to 2m euros. Therefore, we allow these proposed amendments and amendments to the Criminal Law to the specific laws to be adopted on certain infringements to provide for fines in amounts and in such a way as to be suggested by the Directives and regulations of the European Union. Here, it should be pointed out that the Criminal Law is a fundamental, basic regulation governing institutes and proceedings in criminal trial or infringing decision, and the fact that a specific misdemeanor is described in specific regulations. Therefore, the way the provisions of the Directive are transposed and the regulation is not direct, so a proper legal framework is created to transpose the European Union rules by special law. We have, in accordance with our judicial system, determined that these administrative measures and sanctions, which is the term from the European Union's gains, are further pronounced by the courts because the power of sanctioning is the rightful judicial authority and we, as the Republic of Croatia and several other European Union countries, have established criminal courts which are competent to impose such administrative sanctions. We did not specify that we give the sanctioning authority directly to independent regulatory agencies, that they themselves impose administrative sanctions in a special procedure because it is not entirely in agreement with the Constitution and the principle of the government's trinity. In addition to adapting the range of penalties, we are also obliged to allow authorised prosecutors to publicly publish decisions on infringements on their websites in the manner required by the directives and regulations and we have made this possible by this proposal. The relevant regulations of the European Union require that timely information be made public on the website of the competent authorities to publish information on the administrative measures or sanctions imposed, therefore, on those penalties under the infringement procedure, even before they are authorised and that information on the identity of natural or legal persons responsible for the infringement of the relevant rules is published. And so we have made it possible, in this regard, to adapt the acquis to the European Union. We have also created proposed amendments to the conditions which allow certain procedures or specific facts to prescribe and impose protective measures for a period of time, as required by EU directives and provisions, hence a long or permanent ban on certain duties or activities for infringements under the jurisdiction of regulatory agencies. The current Infringement Act restricts the regulation and procuring of such a safeguard to a maximum length of 2 years with respect to the principles of proportionality, and the relevant regulations of the European Union allow and require the possibility to prescribe and impose such a measure or sanctions for a longer period of time, up to certain conditions of permanent ban on the exercise of activity. Let's say that's the Financial Instrument Market Directive. The second group includes amendments and additions to the Criminal Code which we have imposed the legal presummation of the defendant's refusal to grant a plea against a criminal order and a mandatory criminal order if he pays the fine before the appeal is filed. This amendment is proposed to increase the overall efficiency of the criminal justice system. For the same reason, we have proposed normative supplements that would allow an authorised person, i.e. an authorised prosecutor, to the perpetrator of the offence at the scene of the offence. Therefore, to make it easier, easier, and at a less cost and resources and time for the benefit of both offenders and authorized persons to prosecute such a case. The third group of amendments includes the changes we have made for the purposes of nomotenic improvement and, in particular, the harmonisation of certain legal institutes and procedures with the Criminal Law in order to coherently lay down the part relating to criminal and criminal law. Compared to the first and second readings, we have some differences. So in the final draft of the law, we added a provision in Article 13 which introduces, for legal persons with public authority who have the status of independent regulatory agencies, the exclusive jurisdiction of one court, the Criminal Court in Zagreb. The goal is that as in other segments, through rationalization we started to implement as much specialise as possible certain courts for certain procedures and then to be more efficient in that part. In the catalogue of safeguard measures, we have also added a ban on visiting a specific place or area resulting in new additional provisions in Articles 6 and 9. This is because the practice of Criminal Courts has shown the need and necessity of applying such a measure to certain perpetrators, and this measure has not been prescribed by specific law. We also introduced new provisions in Articles 19 and 20 relating to the costs of the infringement procedure and to the costs incurred by the destruction of the case. Those costs, of course, were determined to be borne by the defendant. In Article 22, we added a new provision detailing the protection of defence rights in the first trial and in the case of arrests. In Articles 28 and 30, the provisions in paragraphs 6 and 5 have been added, in order to specify that the legal presummation in question of the right to object and to give up the object submitted does not apply to those defendants who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia. Let me just take a brief look at those remarks that we did not accept. These are the remarks of the Croatian Labour Club and are two. As regards paragraph 4, in Article 37, this is Article 5 of the final proposal under which the court may impose a minor sentence than prescribed if the authorised prosecutor and the defendant agree on it. The proposed Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers was justified by fears that the regulatory agency could negotiate with certain offenders or in some other way arbitrarily dispose with this right, and that the sentence would then be excessively reduced. The proposal was not accepted precisely because we retained our judicial structure that I was talking about giving sanctions to the court. That is how Article 109e is prescribed. These are the additions of Article 14. Therefore, the court will decide and consider the agreement in the form of a statement by the authorised prosecutor and shall present the offender and will not respect him if it is to the detriment of the defendant, if it is illegal or if it does not achieve the purpose of the penalty, which would be too low a penalty. In relation to the second proposal, to enable, on the basis of the infringement itself, the imposition of a measure of a long-term or permanent prohibition of the exercise of activity and the public publication of a decision on the offence. Instead of doing so in special laws, because it takes time to explain that the amendment of the special law cannot be avoided and cannot be overrun as proposed, because in our system of violations specific laws describe the violations, and then they are the most difficult and prescribed then and the extent of the punishment for these same offences. Various conditions for publication, i.e. for the exception of the publication of the judgment, are also a matter of specific laws and, for reasons of legal certainty and no-technical rules, this regulation will remain for special laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120180	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120181	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the second reading of the Criminal Law which the club, at the beginning of the proposal of the Criminal Law, will immediately say that the SDP Club will support these changes. Let's remind ourselves, so this is another reading. And as we have seen almost all the laws that came from this vault, I will not underestimate any law, because every law that is passed is important. But the one that comes from the Justice Department is so important that it applies almost as a rule to all citizens. And there was a democratic debate there, and I will immediately say that the differences between the first reading and the second reading are, to this extent, the motioner has respected the debate, and he has also respected those that were of quality and that came from the opposition, specifically from the HDZ, which concerns the issues of regulatory agencies. I think it was a constructive remark. What is outlined through this proposal is that judicial reform is not being initiated but no one can stop it anymore. Finally, the judiciary stabilized, and you personally made a huge contribution, and the government as a whole. Today we had a chance to hear it. I think it was enough and touching on the Justice Committee itself where such a unanimous assessment was, not only what the debates were and I think it is an example of how the debates in the Croatian Parliament must be conducted in particular in its bodies. So, by the power of the arguments, not the high decibels. Looks like we're still going that way. So, what are the consequences of the Criminal Code? We see it gradually through all the laws but here perhaps the most obvious because it is the misdemeanor courts that are quick courts, and everything is done to improve their efficiency, speed and quality. For example, we used to have a charge from criminal judges to 12% of the fines imposed. Today it goes over 50%, close to 60%. We've had a situation, unfortunately we still have that possibility but it's over, it's almost no more a citizen's use, it's so-called. a computer prison. So the citizen won't pay. We've had very rich people, benevolent citizens mocking the system. They're telling me that they'll never come anyway, they're staunchly threatening, until everyone's charged, and I won't pay for it, so let him call me to jail. And when I get there, there's a lot of traffic in prisons. So that is how they wanted to avoid or avoid paying the fine, and even to that extent, if the bodies had called on them to order them, they would have opted for a co-op prison. It's gone today. So this bill also tells us how much the government and through this ministry has introduced order through this portfolio. So it's a bigger charge, and citizens all drivers and people are very sensitive to those penalties, so they understand their responsibility, act more disciplined, and there are fewer violations. So what we can say about here now is what is already the consequence of the changes so far. And as is now done with these changes, here's the already respected deputy mostly said everything. I just want to say on behalf of the club to highlight a few important moments, which is that citizens have taken the measure very well. It's kind of an incentive measure. So, who quickly gives the old Roman principle... So whoever gives quickly doubles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if you pay the fine right now, you'll pay 50%, you've paid it in full. So here we have sometimes heard little doubt that it will encourage citizens. On the contrary, however. If it wasn't in the state's interest to use it, to encourage them to commit crimes, so that they would charge those penalties and thus charge the budget. On the contrary. Because every offense, especially in the traffic it has and always has for the result of damage to other people's property or some other accident of greater value that can even correspondence and with a criminal act is always a great damage to the community. Therefore, prevention, the measure disciplined citizens, increased their responsibility, which is very significant. We are talking about the responsibility of the institutions, and we must also talk about the responsibility of the citizens here. In such a way that whoever enlists them, who removes their responsibility means not to recognize them primarily for the citizens. And this is the bill and the one that has been changed before, and especially these are going in that direction. As the deputy said, they could sort of settle into three categories. The first concerns those European issues. I'm going to point out that there are few countries that have organized misdemeanor courts. It's mostly what the police do with them, very few opportunities to provide judicial protection. But we've had a lot of problems before with misdemeanor courts, as well as with the judiciary as a whole. Today they're they I'd say here are the feathers of the judiciary at their speed and efficiency. Even many judges are here, given that this great task has been fulfilled that there are no delays or that they have been reduced to the least possible extent that they can move to other courts and in view of the matter of which they deal with and the wide diapazone which all laws regulate and which provide for criminal penalties can therefore be very experienced and used and find their job in the trial of municipal courts or even more levels in view of the conditions achieved. I would also like to say what this bill makes, and what is also very important, and that is the efficiency of the course of action. So far, we have had this opportunity, which we have seen so far, to remove and such an obstacle that a citizen, a citizen, had the possibility that he was found guilty of a crime, is mostly due to traffic violations to pay a fine that was 50% reduced on his spot, but he has the possibility that even though he paid to object to such a solution. Today, the fact itself, so these changes, which is completely illogical because only paying is a confession and that's how it should be interpreted. After all, we simplify the procedure, so we give the opportunity to a man who really doesn't feel guilty that he is then regularly using a regular procedure or that there is a chance that 50% of paying the full amount of the criminal penalty. The other thing is that we adapt to modern technologies. This is said several times here, perhaps just as an example of Commercial Courts, and Criminal Courts are an example of paper and paper modes of business, communication with citizens, payment of penalties, insight into documents that have arrived, in letters that come thus to communicate, so to be realized in this way. And that's something this law allows. It is also very important to make public those decisions, especially made by regulatory agencies, to see what kind of business a business entity is, so either he's doing business as a natural or legal person, so how much business it is that I say so badly ruined and to see his partners dealing with who they're dealing with. The other thing is that this bill is in line with the Penal Code that we have also measured. And as you know, the only one might have to leave and see, that's what I was talking about when I first spoke about the Law on Crimes, so given the decision of the Constitutional Court of Justice of that famous Maresti case, so I don't go where the European court considers that neither criminal nor criminal trial, our legal ancestor once allowed that even though the criminal proceedings were conducted that he was always easier than the criminal proceedings and could be conducted in parallel or after that. However, it is necessary to prevent the conduct of criminal proceedings from being conducted because the criminal proceedings are generally faster, so someone, as a rule of law, should, as a rule, be less likely to prosecute the criminal proceedings than in criminal proceedings, or by criminal law, and should also be taken into account to prevent abuses on the one hand, and on the other hand to fully respect the decision of the Constitutional Court which was disclosed through the Maresti case. Here by supporting this law I can thank you once again that it has been a pleasure, I think many will say, work with you that you have not talked about or on which side the proposals come from, and that is one of the reasons why the proposals that came into the beginning have become more quality at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120182	Thank you, too. No more interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120183	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, second reading, P.Z. No. 814. The debate on the final text of the law is over. I am voting on the final text of the law and please vote. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I stress that the adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs in accordance with Article 152. Rules of Procedure. I find that most votes, 108 votes in favour, no abstentions, 5 votes against the law of P.Z. No. 814 in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120184	I continue with: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.BR.911. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Introduce Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120185	Thank you very much. The proposed proposal to amend and supplement the Commercial Society Act creates legal preconditions for reducing the costs of the liquidation of a limited liability society which will be fully implemented and with the amendments to the rules which are behind this on the agenda and which are governed by public and court fees and court registers. So, the purpose of these changes is to enable and facilitate timely exit from the market because we have made certain efforts to enable faster registration and existence of operators on the market, and on the other hand, the existence of more of those inactive entities actually chokes the market. The reason why certain objections prevented the proposal for the termination of the company or the liquidation was the claims that the procedure was too expensive. Therefore, we encourage the members of the company not to avoid making decisions on the termination of business because their liquidation procedure is too expensive, and in addition to clearing up the area of economic activity, the burden on the system is reduced because the liquidation can be under official duty, can also be carried out through bankruptcy proceedings, and in both cases the judicial or other state apparatus is activated through that measure which would require that the member of the company submits an application for liquidation. We currently have about 145 entry entities registered in the court register and these are all companies and cooperatives and institutions and traders of individuals, about 115 thousand are limited liability companies and simple limited liability companies have 19 thousand. So 93% are limited-responsibility companies. Stock companies have more than a thousand. This proposal first and foremost facilitates timely exit from the market or encourages members of society not to avoid making decisions on the termination of business because they are being overpriced by the liquidation process. This, of course, reduces the load on the entire system. An important and important newspaper that will then be dragged through these next laws that are up to it is the publication of an ad. So we're proposing to abandon the obligation to publish an ad in NN. This is being replaced by the publication on the website of the court register because the current technology and system that we have established enables us to do so. Equal speed or even higher speed and transparent manner of publication is on the court register and of course it is significantly cheaper and faster. Now entrepreneurs are waiting 3 or 4 months for an announcement in the NN, and the court register would be received and executed immediately. Some 45 thousand advertisements concerning the court register are published annually in the NN. Over 2.5 thousand ads refer to liquidation procedures, thousands of ads refer to other notifications that entrepreneurs are obliged to publish under the Commercial Society Act, calls for main congregations, notices of underlying capital and the like. The price of advertising in NN is not small, and according to the proposal, it would now be zero kunas for publication on the court register, if published under official duty. If the notices of the company itself are made public then they would introduce a fee of only 100 kuna. In addition to these changes, we have proposed certain procedural changes, so we allow one public note document to contain everything regarding liquidation, instead of three calls to creditors, one announcement is proposed. We have about 700 liquidation procedures a year in respect of which about 2.5 thousand ads are published, as I said, the cost of publishing an ad for one liquidation amounts to a thousand 600 kuna, and we suggest that they are now 100 kuna compared to this fee that I have said. We shortened the duration of the period in which creditors can apply for claims, and only in simple limited liability societies does it shorten from 6 months to 2 months, for a limited liability society we left a deadline of 6 months, but we reduced the calls. Now there are no more three calls but only one. We also shortened the mandatory storage period for creditors in public storage, according to current regulations, that period was mandatory for 6 months, and now it is 4 months for companies with limited liability and for simple societies. For simple ones, the period after which liquidators can share that property with society is also shortened. The period is reduced from one year to 6 months so that the total in the liquidation of simple societies the whole procedure is reduced to 250 days maximum. We have yet to make some changes in the law concerning conflicts of interest, so we have improved and strengthened existing provisions to prevent a possible conflict of interest. For members of the administration for whom, according to the previous assessment of business in the Republic of Croatia, there is a lack of adequate structure, and we have been assessed as a state that does not have sufficient clear provisions to prevent conflicts of interest in this regard, we have complemented those provisions as well. Here's the short one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120186	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of independent leftists Slavko Linic, he is gone, losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120187	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There is a small, brief amendment to the Law on Commercial Society, and as it has become practice, we again have an amendment to the law by emergency procedure. First of all, the reason for the applicant to justify an emergency procedure is the only reason the HDZ Club disagrees because it simply does not comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which should then introduce in its proposal a provision which would discuss minor changes and whether or not... amendments to the law so that it can go into an emergency procedure so that everything and everything is not explained by important economic reasons. In particular, changes and additions to the 2012 Commercial Society Act have been avoided by the establishment of companies in other Member States where there is a requirement for a lower payment of core capital which would then work in the area of the Republic of Croatia. and an alternative has been provided and it is possible to establish a limited liability society in a simplified manner and with a lower share capital. This addition of the Law on Commercial Companies to the Croatian legal system introduced the version of a limited liability company called a simple limited liability company, which, apart from reducing the migration of Croatian entrepreneurs, facilitated the entry into a business venture and prevented unregistered activity. A simple limited liability company shall be a limited liability company and shall be subject to the provisions applicable in general to a limited liability company, except where, explicitly and by law, something else is provided for in an appropriate manner. The lowest capital amount is 10 kuna and must be paid in full in cash and the minimum nominal amount of the business share may be one kuna. However, in addition to making it necessary to facilitate entry into the world of entrepreneurship and to respond to the needs of business in the EU afterwards, it was necessary to facilitate the way out of the market. The cost of liquidating the company according to the rules currently in force is about 7 thousand kuna, while the proposed amendment would significantly reduce. In addition, the proposed amendments seek to encourage members of the company not to avoid making decisions on the termination of operations because their liquidation process is too expensive to reduce the burden on the whole system. In fact, by launching the liquidation decision, the members of a company that will no longer or can no longer carry out economic activity through a company that previously established actually releases judicial capacity because of their obligation to delete a company do not transfer to the State, i.e. a State institution which, otherwise provided for in the prescribed law, removes the debtor from the market after the bankruptcy or erasure of the court register under official duty. I propose amending the simplified winding-up procedure of the company of capital because instead of prior to publication... The credentials are prescribed by one publication, the period during which creditors can apply the request is reduced from 6 months to 2 months and the period of storage of the credentials in the public warehouse is reduced from 6 months to 2 months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the period after which the liquidators can share the stockholders' assets for a year has been reduced to six months. Furthermore, the proposed law leaves the obligation to publish in the National Journal replacing the publication on the website of the court register as an equally fast and transparent manner of publication which is significantly cheaper. Finally, the provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies which improve and strengthen existing provisions to prevent possible conflicts of interest of members of the administration for which there has been a lack of an adequate assessment in the Republic of Croatia so far, and the Republic of Croatia has been assessed as a state that does not have sufficient clear provisions on preventing conflicts of interest. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Commercial Society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120188	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120189	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So the SDP club supports the amendment and addition of the Company Act. We find that it is as focused as this whole set of laws that goes with it aimed at facilitating one segment of action by entrepreneurs and reducing their costs. When we had the amendments and additions of this law in 2012 we introduced them into the Croatian legal system and a simple society with limited responsibility. This company is essentially a limited-responsibility classical society but it has been adapted and modified in a way that is even more suitable for the rapid achievement of an entrepreneurial enterprise. This is significantly improved I would say so many mentioned entrepreneurial climates as well as the number of several tens of thousands of open simple societies with limited responsibility. In practice, however, the need to also close, to get out of an entrepreneurial venture, has also been further facilitated in procedures and costs. It's quite legitimate, I'd say, that a certain enterprise goes into a particular enterprise for a short time. And so when the undertaking ends up being then and the tool with which it was done, let's say the limited-responsibility society to shut down. Also in all countries with rich entrepreneurial practices and culture is also, and it is normal that when someone enters a particular political venture that sometimes is a failure and then, of course, it is in the interest of both him and society to quickly close a failed story and then eventually enriched and otherwise try this experience in some other economic venture. This is essentially the purpose of setting up capital companies to enable individuals to invest in a particular business venture and thus to be subject to a limited risk. Because otherwise, few would have decided to start their own business if in any case you had to answer with all your assets for the risk and failure of a particular business. Therefore, both for the entrepreneurship climate and for the promotion of entrepreneurship, it is important, therefore, not only to achieve rapid and efficient and relatively cheap entry into the business venture but also to get out of this venture. We think at the SDP club that these changes and additions are done. Therefore, there is a significant reduction in the cost of liquidation for a simple limited liability society, but this also seems to be the classic form of that society. The process is accelerated and makes it more efficient. In the first row, therefore, by shortening the deadlines which we welcome, but also by replacing the obligation to publish in the National Journal of Registration, the register is replaced by the publication on the website on which the court register is located, as well as the obligation to publish the information and communications of the society that we find savings and time and money. So I think we can talk about significant business savings for companies and speed up procedures. In such a way, they would say that transparency is being improved because the Internet search will now be very fast and very easy to get all the posts for a particular company, which was now almost impossible in practice. We in the SDP Club particularly highlight and commend the promoter for consistently not only supporting and practically introducing the principle of e-Government in various segments of judicial administration and judicial proceedings. I've already had the opportunity to point out that this is the right way, and here's a really thank you for that, and I think it's also a guideline for the future. When we talk about this transparency and this and the connection, I would say the legality of the business of companies, we find an important point, therefore, of the new proposed Article 248 of the ZTD, where, therefore, where the issue of participation, decision-making or the conclusion of legal work by the members of the administration is further regulated, so where the issue of conflict of interest has been regulated and, I would say, prevents the creation of that possibility at all. The amendments, therefore finally, which are contained in this law and these other laws reduce administrative ones, I would say requirements for economic operators, make business easier and cheaper and contribute significantly to the improvement of the entrepreneurial climate and then the competitiveness of entrepreneurs. Therefore, the SDP club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120190	Thank you. No more interested. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120191	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Companies, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 911. The debate on the text of the law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set for the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 199 of that Rules of Procedure, I am voting on a proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote on the proposal. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 83 votes in favour, no abstentions, 21 votes against the accepted proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Government's representative, Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt, to introduce us to the amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120192	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs. In Article 1, we add the number of National Journals 125/11. In this National Journal, the Penal Code has been published, but we are obliged to state it because this Penal Code has prescribed the termination of certain provisions of the Company Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120193	I am opening a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think there's any interest in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote on the amendment, I apologize. I'm a little tired already, I admit it. So we vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 104 votes in favour, 3 votes abstentions and 3 votes against the adopted amendment of the government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 108 votes in favour, no abstentions and 2 votes against Law P.Z. No. 911, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120194	We continue with - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 914 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of Proposer Sandra Artuković Kunšt, Deputy Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120195	Thank you very much. Therefore, the Law on the Court Register is a fundamental regulation governing the establishment, establishment and management of a court register and the procedure in the register matters. The proposed amendments and amendments are complemented by the consequences and follow-up of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Commercial Companies which are left out of the obligation to publish in the National Journal. Instead of publishing in the National Journal, all publications relating to companies and other entities will be published on the website of the court register as an equally fast and transparent manner of publication which is significantly cheaper. We should distinguish publications on the website of the court register that are related to the entry into the main book of the court register from publications that are not related to the entry in the main book, and must be published by law, such as the call for the main assembly of the society for these others, so for publications that are not related to the entry in the main book of the court register. The proposed law proposes the obligation to pay a court fee in the amount of 100 kuna, and of course there is no cost of publication in the National Journal. We have obliged the promoter to provide information and communications whose publication requires delivery on paper, but also in electronic form, on a medium similar to that for data transmission in order to facilitate this whole process. A special registration entity shall also become a bankruptcy mass to be entered in the register where it is prescribed by bankruptcy law and shall, of course, be prescribed in order to comply with that law. An additional possibility is introduced to make publicly available information on registered natural persons, so data on management members, deputy management members, presidents and members of the Supervisory Boards, or executive directors, presidents and members of the boards on procurators and other members of the company We see no reason why these data should not be available. They will be made available through the OIB and this is also one of the provisions that strengthens transparency, and consequently can prevent conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120196	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120197	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers are co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The basic rule of law governing the establishment, establishment and management of the court register came into force on 5 January 1995 and so far we have had a large number of amendments and additions to the law and two amendments to the Law on the Court Register. The last amendment to this law was not so long ago 2014. Therefore, after so many amendments and additions to the HDZ law, the opinion is that the applicant should approach the creation of a whole new law that would certainly be a better solution for its application than its completion every little. However, I will return only to the law for a short time, as we know, the register is a public book whose registration creates certain legal effects for registration entities, but also for third parties. The need for repeated intervention in this law and its application in an emergency procedure is a necessary need to comply with the Law on Commercial Society as a basic regulation of the registration law governing the establishment, establishment and management of a court register and the procedure in the registering matters. Therefore, the proposed amendments are left with the obligation to publish in the National Journal replacing the publication on the website of the court register as a quick and transparent manner of publication, which is also a significantly cheaper procedure. Finally, it is important to stress that the implementation of this law requires an amount of 250,000 kuna, which is planned in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year for the development and maintenance of the judicial information system, according to the proposal. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120198	On behalf of SDP representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120199	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So this law is essentially based on the previous point and we can essentially repeat everything that was then said. I think it is necessary to welcome the intensification that the principle of... administrations is introduced here as regards the court register, so that it can be published in electronic form instead of in the National Journal, that it can be handed over by electronic means and that certain costs can be settled in this way. It is also necessary to welcome the increased achievement of transparency in the area governed by the court register, so that the data currently entered here on natural persons will be available which has been extremely difficult so far to find such information and very nice... so that everyone will be able to do business with a particular person in the court register to see who previously founded companies and in what way he was enrolled in the court register which is therefore an extremely good tool, perhaps even in preventing fraud because we will be able to see a person, we will be able to see in which companies he or she was a member of the administration or in which she was involved in some way in the work of the company, which is registered in the court register and will be very valuable in planning future business or in the conclusion of certain legal matters. Therefore, we also welcome in the SDP this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120200	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120201	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 914. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 111 votes for, nothing abstentions and nothing against the passed Law of P.Z. No. 914 in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120202	We will now reunite the following two points: - Final amendment of the Law amending the Law establishing the European Society of Socatas Europe (SE) and the European Economic Interest Association (EGIU), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 916; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and Justice. You received the reports at the session. - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Introduction of the European Cooperative, Sobotas Cooperativa Europaea (SCE), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 918; Also the Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. And this proposal was discussed by the Committee on Law and Justice. You received the reports at the session. And Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst will explain the proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120203	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So these two amendments to these two laws on the trail are previously explained, abandoned publication obligations in the National Journal. It is about the forms of association that we have taken over from the acquis, so both the European Society and the European Economic Interest Association and the European Cooperative are the societies in which the changes should be made public instead of now in the National Journal will appear on the website of a court register which is sufficiently and fast and transparent and is significantly cheaper. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120204	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120205	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. You are facing two draft laws in an emergency procedure that are primarily technical. In fact, the proposed laws are in line with the amendments and additions of the Company Act. The proposed amendment therefore leaves the obligation to publish in the National Journal and is made public through websites, court registers as a faster and more transparent manner of publication. In the end, I'd like to mention to my colleague, Ingrid, who quickly gives, twice as much, the HDZ Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120206	And on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120207	So we will quickly give support to this proposal by amending and supplementing both laws because again, this is also implementing the principle of eGovernment. It is therefore also foreseeable that the publications provided for in the National Journal are replaced by publications in the Register Court which, of course, is again significantly accelerated, cheaped and makes the registration procedure more effective in the court register and facilitates business for entrepreneurs who have chosen one of these two forms of their business. So here we support these two bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120208	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on both laws on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120209	The final draft law amending the Law on the Introduction of the European Society of Socatas Europe (SE) and the European Economic Interest Association (EGIU), the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 916 The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 107 votes for, nothing abstentions and nothing against the passed Law P.Z. No. 916 in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120218	Finally, we will discuss in a united way: - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 915; - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Public Taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 912; The Proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. Both proposals were discussed by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. And once again, he will explain to us the proposals of the Deputy Minister of Justice, Ms Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120219	Thank you very much. In view of the proposed amendments and additions to the Company Act, which aim to reduce the costs of liquidation of companies with limited liability and which costs are high under the applicable rules, we consider it necessary to reduce the costs of liquidation and to ensure and implement the addition of the Law on Court Taxes in this regard, because court fees also affect the costs of liquidation. The fee for the registration of simple society data changes with limited liability is reduced and is proposed to amount to 30 kuna. We've touched charges here on a motion to postpone the operation. So far, it is the obligation of the applicant to postpone the application to pay the fee immediately. We are aware that sometimes the request for a postponement will also be submitted for reasons of obtaining time or for the procedure to stretch a little bit. But the delay in the execution can, of course, be justified. If it is justified then, the obligation to pay the fee will not be and if the motion to postpone the judgment has been rejected, then there is an obligation to pay the fee. It is proposed that the court fee also be paid in cash for those amounts which are less than 100 kuna, so far we have had the situation that such small fees must be paid with notes which should indeed be abandoned. Therefore, fewer taxes are paid with cash and can make payments both on the account and on the Internet and on the simplest way. Since we left the publication in the National Journal and replaced it with the publication on the web site, we also prescribed the obligation to pay a fee for such a 100 kuna publication for which the submission is delivered to the Register’s company’s data and communications to publish on the website. This reduces these costs multiplely. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, since we have a united discussion and for the Law on Public Taxes, I missed it. As a matter of fact, we have implemented and proposed amendments to the Law on Public Taxes with the aim of reducing the costs of liquidation of a limited liability society, it is proposed that a simple society with limited liability not only be freed from the proposal for a public registration fee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120220	Thank you, too. Again, I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120221	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since HDZ will support this law, I don't think I need to repeat all this that's already been said so that we support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120222	Thank you very much. And on behalf of SDP representative club colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120223	Thank you, well-respected Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Really good things aren't hard to support, and here I can just say a reduction in the number of cases, a reduction in court fees. Indeed, when the Law on Public Taxes was amended, we had one big mess. Therefore, not only does the liquidation of the company and thus helps to reduce the cost of the liquidation, in which the reduction of the public charges will contribute significantly to this. Believe it or not, the liquidation and cost of liquidating a society that, as a living corpse, was in some way creating a mess allows for us to take care of the situation. In court fees, they were always to mention when the SDP came to power they were significantly reduced. So we were remembering in the middle another late '90s just for insult and slander at the time 1500 kuna was a fee. That's when we cut them by 50%. Unfortunately, in the meantime, there has been an increase but here is now a significant reduction in these fees and in some ways these parafiscal duties are being reduced. It is perfectly clear that people, and not only efficiency and simplifies the procedure, that people in court halls when they had to pay a fee less than 100 kuna through those notes were running to bookstores, to the kiosks to find it. Here it is now possible for those amounts that are less than 100 kunas to be paid in the almost money that contributes to believe or not in this way the speed of the proceedings and enables people to participate more easily in court proceedings. But also what's most important is that right now, especially now, the distinguished pronoun has pointed out that it is possible to publish and publish data and communications that have so far been mandatory in the National Journal and on the website. Believe it or not, tens of millions of kunas will be saved in this way by our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120224	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill's proposals on Friday. Our colleagues and colleagues will continue tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. again after the agreement to present certain views of the clubs that request it, and at 9.30 we will begin by discussing the final proposal of the Law establishing the University of Slavonski Brod. Thank you very much and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120225	Final draft law supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 915 The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 81 votes for, 1 vote abstention and 27 votes against the motion to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like the Deputy Minister of Justice, Sandra Artuković Kunšt, to introduce us to Amendment No. 1 Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120226	Thank you very much. We propose to combine Articles 4 and 5 as both apply to the addition of the provisions on payment of court fees, so this is a no-technical reason. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120227	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 1 Government of the Republic of Croatia. I estimate there's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 1 Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 102 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 3 votes against the accepted amendment No. 1 Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 2, esteemed Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120228	Thank you very much. As a consequence, we propose to delete Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-09-22-0.u120229	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I don't think there's any interest in the debate. I am finalising the debate on Amendment No. 2. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 104 votes in favour, no abstentions and 3 votes against the accepted amendment No. 2 Governments of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 105 for, no abstentions and 2 votes against the adopted and passed Law P.Z. No. 915 in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Dear colleagues of the MPs and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament have been the usual start recently of the plenary session of the Croatian Assembly for the needs of representatives clubs and their need to address the public about the current situations of certain issues. Is it this morning? There is. The esteemed representative of my colleague Mirela Holy.
