ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97553	Ladies and gentlemen, respected MPs and representatives of the purpose and importance of submitting the Report on European Council meetings in accordance with the Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government in European Affairs shall consist of informing the Council of the main preoccupations and directions of European policy at its highest level, i.e. at the level of Heads of State and Government of the 28 EU member states. The Parliament has one of the central roles in formulating our European policy, and it is necessary in this way to be referred to strategic conclusions that are crucial for the adoption and implementation of concrete European policies. The purpose and importance of this report are, of course, to meet Croatian citizens with a general political and economic situation in the Union and with key measures and processes that run at the highest political level. This is particularly important in light of the knowledge that a large part of our citizens, our public, still does not know enough to what extent our full membership in the Union is affecting us in Croatia, i.e. what advantages and development opportunities this membership provides. These advantages and opportunities are not just bright perspectives and something that needs to come, it's reality. That is why, at the outset, I will only briefly present precise and recent information on how much Croatia has benefited from European funds so far, stressing that the benefits and opportunities provided by membership are in no way exhausted on money from funds. In the pre-accession and structural funds of the EU for the financial period 2007-2013, a billion and 270m euros were available to Croatia. To this day, it is agreed to receive 970m euros, which is the usability of 75% of the contracts. Of that, 717m euros have been agreed in my government's current mandate. Out of the total 970m euros agreed so far, 487m euros have been paid, of which 360 have been paid over the past three years. The total estimated value of individual projects agreed or agreed under operational programmes for the period 2007-2013 is around 350m euros. These are projects against the water supply and disposal system in Osijek, Poreč, Čakovac and Vukovar, construction of the Ciovo Bridge, development of Dubrovnik Airport, etc. In the last year and a half, projects have been selected to allocate nearly 150m euros of grants. Otherwise in 2014 Croatia paid 460m euros in the Union budget, and through various programmes and funds we were paid 548m euros. In the financial period 2014-2020, the current period, a total of 10 billion and 675 million euros are available to Croatia. That's about two-thirds of our state budget or one-fifth of our one-year GDP. In December last year, the European Commission adopted our operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion. We were among the first, it was the last meeting of the outgoing committee. This puts us at our disposal 6 billion and 880 million euros for investment in growth and economic development. In December of last year, the commission also adopted our operational programme of effective human potential. We have at our disposal a billion and 580m euros from the European Social Fund and the Youth Employment Initiative. This money is mainly intended to encourage employment, especially young people. We can withdraw 2 billion euros from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, and we expect to start doing this as soon as possible. And from the Maritime and Fisheries Fund 250 million euros. I am deeply convinced that we have managed to develop and train an administrative apparatus to make full use of the European money that has been allocated to us. Competitions have already been opened for some of the major projects within the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion for the period 2014-2020. It is about the construction of the second track and reconstruction of the railway Dugo Selo-Križevci, the construction and equipment of the Regional Centre for the Development of Entrepreneurial Competences of the Southeast European Countries in Zagreb, the construction of the Student House in Rijeka, the development of water-communal infrastructure in Novi Gradiška and Županja. By the end of September this year, tenders for the implementation of 15 other infrastructure projects with a total value of close to 700m euros will be launched. Ladies and gentlemen, I must point out in the introduction that the report on the meetings of the European Council must not actually be and cannot be some kind of stenogram with the meeting of 28 EU leaders. That would be irresponsible and irresponsible and unauthorized. But I call on you to believe that at European Council summits, I have been very active, regular and reasonable in the interests of our country and our citizens, and that Croatia has actively participated in creating views and measures in all major issues, especially those that concern us most, facing and facing the EU. During 2014, 4 regular and 2 extraordinary meetings of the European Council were held. Regular and two-day meetings took place in March, June, October and December last year, while extraordinary sessions dedicated exclusively to the crisis in Ukraine took place in July and August. There is also an informal dinner of members of the European Council in May. During last year, to say the same, although you know it, there has been a change at the head of the European Council. Herman Van Rompuy was replaced by former Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk and the change took place at the post of President of the European Commission. On behalf of the Commission, the new President Jean-Claude Juncker, former President and Multi-annual Prime Minister of Luxembourg, is now sitting at European Council summits instead of Barroso. Three complex thematic blocks completely dominated last year's meetings of the European Council. The first predominance is economic stagnation, followed by high unemployment and fiscal macroeconomic consolidation of the Union countries. The second block is the Ukrainian and security crisis caused by the Russian annexation of Crimea. The ongoing issue is energy security and efficiency, and climate policies. It is quite clear that these topics will mark the meetings of the European Council and in the year before us, or in which we have already entered. As regards economic issues and the European Semester, i.e. stronger governance and coordination of economic and fiscal policy within the EU, the focus is on measures to achieve economic growth and greater competitiveness and to create new jobs and attract investment more intensively. This area, which primarily refers to structural reforms inseparably from the other two mechanisms foreseen by the European Semester with a view to establishing a stable and competitive national economy and then a stable and competitive European economy. These are fiscal consolidation, i.e. a reduction in the budget deficit below 3%, preventing macroeconomic imbalances, which means bringing public debt below 60% of GDP. As I said, the European Council paid the most attention and time to finding solutions that should lead to GDP growth, a more competitive economy and employment. Such an approach is quite logical because the establishment of sustainable and stable public finances in the long term is not possible without continued economic progress, without positive momentum in creating new values and without creating or creating new jobs, as well as without re-industrisation based on modernisation, new technologies and high standards of environmental protection in which Europe is ahead and far from the world. The budget spending cuts are necessary and possible as well as the retention of debt to cover the budget deficit. But it's a pretty wasteful job unless GDP increases are achieved and new jobs are created. Everyone finally realized that fiscal responsibility is necessary, but that this simply is not a prerequisite for creating new jobs and for economic growth. I wouldn't want these words to give me the impression that reducing the budget deficit and public debt is some sort of second-rate task and our less important job, not at all. After all, my government succeeded in saving and rationalising the budget deficit in last year of 12 billion and 800 million kuna, which is a little less than 3 billion kuna better than the plan and we know that there is still room for further discharge of public spending beyond the fear that in any way the functioning of the state or material and other rights of our people associated with the state budget will be compromised. I mean pensions, salaries, social benefits, rights of Croatian defenders and war victims. I also think of the relatively high level of health care that costs free education, making efforts to make these two systems financially sustainable. Ensuring fiscal sustainability and macroeconomic stability is a job that we will do within a very reasonable period of time, and when I say to a reasonable person, I mean that I will not allow the capture of a bureaucratic projected deadline to jeopardise the positive effects of the structural reform of the Croatian economy that has been going on for the past three years, with the effects that are increasingly clearly seen and felt. What exactly do I mean by structural reform, an expression that many often use emptied from any content? I mean the turn of our economy from overreliance on the bloated construction sector, resulting in huge and partly unfavourable government and personal debt. I mean a shift towards a national economy which is firmly rested on production and this production with export ambition and innovative approach, a stronger industry and even more vital small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, on an encouraging investment framework without legal and administrative barriers, on full use of European money to finance our public investment and private business ventures. Under structural reform, I also mean a regulated and orderly state, tax discipline, a more efficient state administration and public service that must be fully in the function of economic development and a richer and safer life for our citizens. In this respect, in addition to the information and full transparency of the state administration, we have lawfully improved or simplified the promotion of investment and improvement of the investment environment including the Strategic Investment Projects Act. This complete structural turn that continues and will last for some time could not happen overnight and without consequences. We still haven't come out of recession because the heavy weights of the construction sector and the fall in personal consumption, but it's very close to the moment when we start to record positive GDP growth rates, and that will assure you, are long-term stable and continuous growth, not a balloon that had to blow up overnight with thousands and thousands of people who haven't recovered and who still can't spend. To remind you, Croatia's GDP fell from 2009 to 2011 cumulatively by about 10%, from 2012 to 2014, so in my government's mandate, GDP fell by a further 3.6% of it in 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, some important data is in favor of my rational optimism. Our exports increased by around 9% in the first 10 months of last year, with exports to EU countries increased by 11% and CEFTA countries, despite everything, by 12.7%. We expect that a positive impact on the further growth of Croatian exports will have the decision of the European Central Bank to buy euro area countries' bonds for more than a thousand billion euros over the next year and a half at minimum transfer rates, etc. Quantitative relief. Tourism, our most stable economic sector in the past year, has grown in all parameters according to the first data, and it is certain that we will reach the pre-crisis in 2008 for tourism. At the end of December last year, the number of unemployed in the employment office records was 316 thousand 763. Compared to December 2013, it's less by 12.5% or almost 47 thousand of our people. Personal consumption has shown a slight recovery in the past year but this remains the most critical and difficult part of recovery. We believe that the tax-class correction that has increased salaries by several hundred thousand people since January will speed up personal spending. We believe that this will also contribute to the write-off of debts to a maximum of 35,000 kuna, a write-off that will finally draw about 60 thousand of our people from the financial blockade. So-called A new beginning. Industrial production in November at year level has increased by 2.8% and estimates say it will rise in '14. compared to '13. be about 1%. This is solid progress, of course, in the European frameworks. As regards strengthening the European Council's industrial competitiveness, the fact that, with high unemployment, labour supply does not meet the needs of employers. The areas in which this deficit, the lack of reference, are science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Therefore, Member States are invited to invest additionally in those areas and to create and educate workers with the skills needed on the labour market. It is our permanent commitment to allow anyone who wants to be educated to do so in harmony with their own talents and tendencies. But young people and their parents in selecting high school and study should bear in mind that the purpose of education is, among other things, to ensure their own existence. It is therefore important to include real economy considerations in the creation of policies affecting the labour market above all. The European Council of Meetings in the second half of last year looked closely at the fact that the European Union lags behind investments for China and the United States and that the continuation of such a trend could result in a weaker competitiveness of the European economy on the global market. In addition to insisting on further structural reforms and fiscally decided to provide support for growth investments through the establishment of a specific investment fund under the auspices of the European Union. The fund, worth about 300 billion dollars, will co-finance important and large projects in the member states. My President of the Commission presented an investment plan to the European Council in December last year in the company of Central Bank President Marija Draghi and European Investment Bank President Werner Hoyer. Co-financed projects are foreseen to be in the fields of strategic infrastructure, education, research and innovation of renewable energy, energy efficiency, small and medium-sized enterprises. There won't be a national quota. The projects will be assessed through an independent expert committee and the final decision is foreseen by the European Investment Bank Committee. We all agreed that it is of paramount importance that the project selection respects transparency, that quality projects are chosen to attract private investors from around the world and that the choice is not based on any political decision. The legislative framework for the functioning of this fund will be completed by June 2015 with the European Investment Bank starting to co-finance selected projects with its own resources soon. Croatia has handed over more than 70 projects to the commission, among which the most large of course are infrastructure, energy such as the construction of LNG-terminals on the island of Krk, the third block of the Termo Power Plant Plomin and more large hydropower systems. With considerable certainty, I can say that LNG-terminal in Krk is recognised as a high-level project of importance for European energy security, or for the lower vulnerability of one part of the European Union when it comes to supplying key energy. These projects, including the Ionian-Adriatic gas pipeline project, will provide Croatia with even greater and cheaper energy for citizens and industry, which is an additional incentive to industrial growth and employment. The European Council's recommendations require the completion of the process of creating stronger integration within the energy market, continuing to develop internal energy infrastructure and making further efforts to liberalise the market in order to achieve a level of energy efficiency that can lead to the reduction of energy prices across the European Union. We have launched research that is a prerequisite for the possible discovery and exploitation of oil and gas in the Adriatic and in the Croatian mainland. A tender for research in the Adriatic has been launched by serious and renowned world companies. In this particular respect, the highest environmental standards will be taken into account, as we live on it, from tourism. We have launched energy efficiency projects worth a billion and 500 million kunas with 160 million kunas of extra budget funds, we are providing citizens with a 50-80% subsidisation of the energy reconstruction of family homes. Climate policy is closely linked to the topic of energy, i.e. energy efficiency and gradual transformation to renewable sources. It was concluded that by 2030, the binding objective of reducing the Union-wide emissions of harmful gases was at least 40% compared to 1990, which is a huge target. Then the binding target at Union level is at least 27% of the share of renewable energy sources where Croatia has a lot of hydroenergy sources, but now. In addition, the indicative objective at Union level is to improve energy efficiency by at least 27%. The topic of energy is also related to the creation of a common European policy towards the Ukrainian crisis. According to the Russian Federation, which has anecdoted part of Ukrainian territory and, according to all relevant information, strongly supports the Russian rebels in eastern Ukraine. Regardless of the close economic link between the Member States and Russia, the European Council has decided to impose economic sanctions. These sanctions concern, above all, the Russian financial and energy sector. The European Council's position that the rapid deterioration of the Russian economy can't be a reason to abolish sanctions. The reason for abolishing sanctions can only be a radical change in Russia's political behaviour, i.e. the Russian respect for the signed agreements and Ukrainian sovereignty. But it must insist on dialogue because sanctions against Russia also harm the European economy, including the Croatian economy that is most important to us. In June of last year, the Union signed Association Agreements with Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, including a comprehensive free trade agreement, with political parts signed in March with Ukraine. However, it is clear that the enlargement of the Union has not been in the focus of European policy for some time and it is clear that the situation will not change much more soon. But Croatia is among those members who insist that the enlargement policy is not forgotten in the long run. We believe that the Union must step more actively towards the countries of our neighbourhood, above all BiH, and Serbia, Montenegro, Albania, Macedonia and Kosovo. This step, insisting on the adoption of high standards, is the geopolitical necessity and the most effective means of calming all types of interstate, interethnic and social tensions. The European Council of the highest political level said that the Union and the United States must make every effort to conclude negotiations on partnership, transatlantic trade and investment in English TTIP by the end of this year. This sent a clear message on the importance of these negotiations for growth and employment, as well as on the promotion of investment. What exactly are the negotiations here? That's very important for us, too. It is negotiated to remove customs and other barriers to trade, to invest between the Union and the United States. According to one relevant study, the Union's economy would benefit from the agreement at 119 billion euros annually, while the US benefit would be 95 billion. Although it is clear that there are potential dangers for the European economy and culture in this type of contract, I am convinced that the advantages and gains will be incomparably greater. It would be good otherwise if more often, perhaps not more detailed in our public opinion, but more often talk about the TTIP because the prospect of reaching an agreement will have an impact on our life, which I believe will be a positive impact. The terrorist attack on French satirical newspaper Charlie Ebdo will surely lead to a much larger engagement of the entire Union on internal security issues and preventing the actions of Islamic terrorists. Security measures and protocols will certainly be tightened, but for the successful fight against terrorism, it is more crucial that what is not seen with the naked eye. This is full cooperation and commitment to security, intelligence and judicial mechanisms that must be constantly technologically and information modernised and imported. In this our services are of one of the better quality. That's what I want to stress and underline. A more active approach is necessary to prevent the radicalisation of young people and to recruit them among terrorists, as well as to monitor those returning to Europe from Syria and Iraq. Croatia has a visible and responsible role in this respect, primarily because of its position and the fact that our borders are also the external borders of the European Union and that we will apply to the earliest possible date for membership in the Schengen regime in the middle of this year and then the evaluation begins. I also talked about it these days in the European Office of the Agency for those Affairs in Tallinn. Croatia can be proud of the reputations enjoyed by the Ministry of Interior and our security services among its colleagues in the Union and the world. It would be wrong, however, if the European response to the Islamic threat would be stopped only in the anti-terrorist war, enhanced security measures and increased vigilance and equipment at the external borders. European societies in which Muslims live and settle must find a way between unconditional integration and full ghettoisation of the Muslim community. Croatia is also, perhaps not as exposed as some countries, a model. Our model is a good model. Perhaps the right principle would be mutually persuasion in which we would know and understand and support one another, first of all in that important free understanding and showing our own identity and way of life, which is rarely one.... What Europe cannot give up in this relationship and I personally will never give up is freedom of opinion and freedom of speech, probably the highest value of modern civilization. Ladies and gentlemen, to recap, the Union's priority objectives are to strengthen the economy from more jobs, good jobs and more fiscal responsibilities. Two seemingly contradictory, but still harmonizes the goals. Then the establishment of societies that can economically strengthen and effectively protect all their citizens, a secure future in terms of energy and climate change, a progressive area of fundamental human freedoms and justice that enjoys citizens' trust and effective joint action in the world. As for the Government, the Croatian Government, which I am headed by, we will continue to form on the principles of social solidarity and justice, regardless of all resistances. We've shown that these days, and in the case of loans in Swiss francs, we're not gonna stop there, of course. We are also preparing new measures that will make life easier for people, tens of thousands of people, and more than that that in the most vital and productive part of their lives, burdened and immersed by loans cannot spend anything. Their situation is so-called. a double threat, and a fall in the price of real estate they bought and invested in their lives and the growth of war. This other one is neither in America nor in Spain, and we have to act actively, finally in a way to save the banks because we've kept them all these years. They didn't come into a situation like the Irish or Spanish banks, but also to finally free people after these tax changes that thousands of kunas can spend. Without it, there is no real recovery, and that is our key problem. The possibility of people who have middle incomes, middle-years, spending away from giving everything available to pay off credit, that's suicide. I'm not accusing anyone of that, but this government is going to do it less than 90 days. We will insist on fighting social exclusion and inequality leading to extremism and violence. We will insist on protecting the weakest and most fulfilling and pleasant lives of people living from their work. Just that, work. Advocating these values and practicing these values, active practice will be our contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97554	Thank you, Your Honor, Prime Minister. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Club of Representatives Linić, Vukšić and Hodzic, and on behalf of the club, the respected representative Branko Vukšić. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97555	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, respected colleagues and colleagues. If at least part of what the Prime Minister was saying in the report here when he spoke to us, the report in writing and my comment would be quite different, but I'm going to talk about what's in the report and what I think should have been written in the report, and there isn't. When I worked as a journalist and editor at the end of the '70s and '80s in the Evening List, we were getting the most expensive newspaper in the former state. When we were right, we asked why we'd fit into the future. In the new state, our salaries were also far below objective opportunities or on the market of election earnings. When we asked them why they were responding very much or the same, we invest in the future, and that future for the journalist never arrived, but it arrived to those who had collected all the profits of our future and carried it out of Croatia. When I was a member of the Croatian art force in the 1990s, when I spoke to the defenders at various battlefields about what awaited us after the war, most of them were looking forward to the future in their own country now, where there will be no injustices privileged and deceived. No one will give us more trouble and our sweat. We'll be remembering that floscule of yours on yours. And while we were dreaming, the privileged were lurking. That's irrelevant, only fools turned out to insist on their own. Basically whether there's a state that doesn't insist on its own sense at all or whether it's just a framework with which large corporations, and banks are the first among them inn. But we are a people who can be comforted and deceived. If there was a robbery in the 1990s when we enter the EU, we will become part of that advanced world, yet we will welcome a better future. When we discussed a referendum on entry into the Union here in Parliament, they often knew how to conceal not only the bright but also the euphoric words. A miracle was expected from 1.7. Then in one discussion, I said that the only thing that would happen to us after 1.7 is 2.7. It could be even worse. We could come true if the recently spoken pre-election threats returned to the 1990s. But also these for many citizens of Croatia's Tantalus struggles in surviving, patching up ends with end, schooling and healing supplies are again fooling ourselves with the future. And that future never comes. In the beginning, the promised future has already become a thick past. When I told my friend that today in the Assembly we would discuss reports on meetings of the European Council, he asked me a logical question whether we should once be the president's idea of the concept of citizens and peasants of these meetings had any benefit or whether it was all about mere red tape at the highest level. And of course, it is logical to wonder whether we should discuss the report submitted by Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic in writing, stressing that it is written, which contains, whether it is linguistically correct, or whether we need to discuss the essence of these meetings to our reality and reality of the rest of European citizens, whether they live in the country or the city. The main topics of the European Council meeting were the Strategy for growth, competitiveness and employment or the creation of new jobs. Freedom, security and justice, how to achieve them, consume them. The European Council also discussed climate and energy policy until 2030 and, of course, externally outside the EU relations with potential members and, for example, the Central African Republic. In the context of external relations for all four sessions, chaos was debated or diplomats wrapped up a complex situation in Ukraine. It is impossible to see from the report whether anyone self-critically spoke to the irrefutable fact that, for the chaos, a large part of the responsibility lies with the EU, or Western countries headed by the United States, which is very well aware of the Ukrainians with whom I had the opportunity to talk as an observer in the presidential and parliamentary elections. Western countries were named Euromajdan after the second revolution, the first one in 2004 to soften the promises of the day at the time of mass protests. In addition, the post-Mayan time marked a highly sound diplomatic incident by Victoria Nuland, which assessed the EU's role in the Ukrainian crisis in a coach way. A video of the conversation between the US Ambassador to Kiev and Deputy Secretary of State Victoria Nulant, who in just a few weeks from the honey lady, because she brought sandwiches and candy to the protesters in Majdan, in the media, a lady who swears. And curses the European Union and its bureaucrats, reveals the background of the protests who will act in Ukraine after the collapse of corrupt Janukovich. It all came true what was in the phone conversation. All of this was known by Westerners or not by the Ukrainians as they didn't know that they'd have been activated by Crimea, as they didn't know they'd be occupied by Donbass, as they didn't know many of their blood would be shed. I would like to hear from Prime Minister Milanovic whether a self-critical sentence has been given at European Council meetings in Ukraine. We are interested in the essence, including, of course, a few details, but not just out of curiosity, but to create as parliamentarians a more realistic picture of the role of the EU in Ukrainian events whose bloody end is not seen. The Competitiveness and Employment Strategy is important in the report to strengthen policies that contribute to competitiveness in job creation and the fight against unemployment. With record unemployment, there are no workers wanted by capitalists. In order to compensate for this deficit, or to reduce the number of unemployed, it is necessary to invest in science in the report. And what is the attitude of the government towards science in Croatia we know. Or what is the government's attitude towards young, educated people who leave after we invest in them not little money in other EU members or in Canada or in America or in Australia or New Zealand to make them profits. If anyone thinks that young experts in Croatia will remain with 1600 kunas in grave error. These Mrsic slaves work for 1600 kuna because they have not yet issued a visa or work permit. How do they address youth unemployment in Spain or Greece, where 50% of young people do not work? If Alexis Tsipras promised what Europe had promised and did not solve why he and his Syriza were a danger to the EU? Perhaps the danger is that the left hand, not extreme as Syrizu baptizes the neoliberal but the right left hand which in Croatia is not successful in what is so-called "syrizu". the free market and market democracy two incompatible concepts failed and will never succeed. Not because she couldn't or knew, but because she kidnaps and kidnaps calling her ability. They're afraid of those 1% of rich people so Cyprus can alert the 99% to finally say no to exploitation. If today is one of the ideologies of extremes, then it's a neoliberal capitalism that's skillfully hidden behind inadequacy. They are afraid to win after Syrize in Spain's Poddemos whose programme would be said by one of the most prominent philosophers Slavo Žizek 10 days ago in Zagreb's HNK who signed every Spanish neofascist. They fear that Cyprus does not gather around itself 10 countries that have been thrown into slave chains by monetary institutions and that it is not seeking negotiations on a real non-proliferation debt. The most positioned bureaucrats in the EU have not congratulated Cyprus because they view democracy as only neoliberal capitalism in which the report says a liberalised market will lead itself to lower prices. How is it that never a more liberal market produces an unprecedented inequality, poverty and hunger? The European Council is asking members to try to influence the reduction of energy prices. The Croatian government has listened to the advice in a way that has raised energy by more than 30%. In other countries, the price of 100,000 people would have gone to the streets because of such a leap. Of course, there is a need to wonder why in Croatia more and more poor citizens do not object to this evil. In Greece, with EU right, they said no to the austerity flossulas. Here's a fact that's not said in the report, which should be spoken of. Since the EU has prescribed measures to heal the Greek economy, GDP has fallen by 25%, the unemployed are more than 30%. The medicine has caused more damage than the disease itself or the crisis. The EU did not save Greece but was saving the euro, saving the euro zone, saving German banks. Before signing the memorandum, the Greek public debt was 120% of GDP. Today's foreign debt is almost 180%. By the end of the year, the external debt will be around 200%. Greece will never be able to return it, and it will not be able to return it because it listened to it with a knife under the EU's throat. If a bankruptcy is declared, the believers will be left with nothing. After all, '53. At a conference in London to write down 60% of the debt to Germany, Greece voted in favour of Germany. More recently, debt has been written off to European and non-European countries. 1991. Poland's 50% debt was written off. The arguments of Cyprus and the left which he may awaken and trigger the fear of European neoliberals scare Angela Merkel. All of this now looks like a spark that, they know smart, can turn into a bouquet but not one that will burn everything, but one that will at least light up the lives of the oppressed. The report is only on the way to authority and almost shyly mentions that a crucial step will be taken towards, watch out, the end of the banking union. What did the European idea turn into? To the bank union. Not in a union of citizens, not in a union based on solidarity. Who will rule the banking union? Politicians, governments or bankers, IMF? In the banking union, divisions of rich and poor will radicalise. Croatian citizens did not vote to enter a small-door banking union. They're pushing us into a guillotine on the little door, and it's bankers. That's something to stand up to. And while some countries, like Germany, are rich in crisis in other countries in the 21st century, people are left without electricity. All eligible energy prices shall be allocated to the European Council. There are 300,000 people without electricity in Greece. Not because their villages and cities aren't electrified, but because people don't have money to pay for electricity. I'm afraid we too will face a similar punishment for this free, democratic, self-regulatory market. About freedom, security, justice is also in the report. These parts of the report look like a bad pre-election flyer to some populist but right-wing party. I believe the report is credible, so this is not a criticism of the report but of the European Council. What kind of freedom are they talking about and whose freedom are they talking about? Are those people free that the banks have thrown into debt slavery, and people are, hands to heart, into slavery? The hypocrites and the non-empathists will say it's their fault. They lost their job with their guilt, they were paid off by tycoon, for example, like our Todoric, with their guilt after 10 years of paying off the loan due to two apartments, and they took credit for one apartment. With their guilt, they cannot pay for electricity, their guilt is exposed to a robbery called an execution in which law offices charge their services five times more expensive than the debt. How can poor people come to justice when they don't have that kind of money to go to court in public transport? Ecology is a particular chapter that should be concerned all governments, all Member States, all EU citizens, all citizens of the world, because greenhouse gases are created by human action, threatening the ozone envelope that life means. The EU's greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990. But it's all about politics in that but. One of the largest polluters in the United States refused to ratify the Kyoto Protocol. How much the EU will increase and if it reduces pollution. The European Council also reminds at last last last year's session that there is still great unemployment in the EU and that GDP growth is weak. Something's stronger, stronger than ever in Europe and the world. Stronger profit growth is greater than ever the gap between the rich and the poor and this gap in the EU will increase the banking union. Europe will be ruled not by democracy, not by the hand of the heart today, but by a demon in the form of money. Tom has to stand up to it. He's got to rebel against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97556	Thank you, too. We have one replica, respected representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97557	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. My colleague Vuksic said a lot of things, so I could agree with a lot of things, but you said in Greece they said no. I don't agree with that and a lot of what you said and I don't agree, but I'm replicating this statement of yours, says in Greece they rightly said no. I believe this statement of yours on the line of the utopian theory of communism and all those movements is from the 19th century that should have ended each one according to their own possibilities, each according to their own needs. But in Greece, this one came to power so that some of those floscules might do something, and it won't, it'll blow quickly, there's no place in Croatia for this theory of yours. It is the problem of the Croatian people and of the Croatian state and of us here Parliament and today us who... and the Prime Minister for not doing what Greece should have done 15 years ago and for us not yet realizing that we need to do it yesterday, today, so that we do not come into a situation to rely on this theory of yours that we need not do anything to have everything. It's the utopia of fellow Vuksic, you can't sell it anymore. It could have happened sometime when there was no media, and today it's going to spread like a soap balloon in three months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97558	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97559	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, to me, the left only has a future. This is the neoliberal capitalism that pushes everyone. I told you to tell me in what period in the history of the world were there bigger differences? Even in slave society, there were no bigger differences than there are today. Soon, 1% of the inhabitants of the globe will have 99% of the property and 99% of the population will have 1% of the property. Is that your righteousness? Is that what we're looking for in Croatia? Certainly not. I'm sure it's not the citizens they're looking for. What is happening to Croatian citizens today that thank God for a moment has stopped the government, and that is the intervention to stop the rampaging of the Swiss franc for at least some time, only proof that it will get worse and worse in neoliberalism. First of all, planting that nothing should be done, and having everything, absolutely certainly no one is talking about it, no one has talked about it, and the workers are not the ones who do nothing, and they want everything. The workers would just like to work, the workers would like to get what they earn. But there has never been a more unjust redistribution of wealth, there has never been more profit than it is today. And it wasn't introduced by Marx, it wasn't introduced by any communist, it was introduced by a neoliberal ideology in the world that she said today she's selling fog that there are no alternatives. He has alternatives, he certainly has alternatives. One piece of it, we'll see what turns out to be quite certain what happened in Greece, it'll happen in Spain, it'll happen in some other countries, and don't think it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97560	Thank you very much. The President of the Government of the Republic as a Proposer. Here, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97561	Thank you very much. I'm experiencing the Parliament as well as the debate room, if only it were an English parliament with a little joke, but with a lot of intellectual efforts. So Mr. Vuksic said some things I agree with, some things I disagree with. There are some things I'd like to explain. Here's when you talk about the differences that were never bigger, they were much bigger in the 19th century. I advise you to read that book about Thomas Picketty that's big but it's fun, it's there without it and without reading that book anyone who knows little history knows that the differences in society and wealth in the 19th century were enormous compared to today's differences and here in the countries of Western then ultraliberal... fair capitalism. But what happens today in some way if it doesn't stop leading that way again. We're not there yet. So, wealth, power, capital, personal finance, property is concentrated in a very small number of people, but it's still not a time guild it era in the United States when differences were huge. Just for the record. You spoke, I will not talk about Greece, this is Croatia, but the United States is not therefore implementing policy that wherever Europe cuts emissions they increase. A few months ago, you saw that, together with China, they made a historic decision on reducing harmful emissions. So that's not true, and that's not to be said here because I'm an American agent, I've never been and I'll never be, but it's not true. You said we had to stand up to the banking union, look, we need to talk about it. Does anyone know what a banking union is? I will oppose further forms of unnecessary political integration and red tape at EU level that are at the heart of Croatian sovereignty. I think we have a lot of the EU, but where we have to, there's a banking union. It will guarantee everyone that crises like this will not happen or that the chances of happening are much less. It is no dominant of foreign banks that are so present in Croatia but with higher interest rates. If we had a banking union that wasn't still a political union or a Federation then the status of our savings and debtors would be something better, then it wouldn't happen, for example. that in Croatia loans are offered in Swiss, and that banks before that do not warn people in the way they did in Austria with a precisely prescribed form in which people, in which they write almost literally achtung, watch what you do, your responsibility, grew up. That's not what we've been doing. So the banking union is something to explain. It's not a waste of sovereignty, especially in business banking where we don't have any sovereignty. I'd be happy to pay interest as Austrians. So let us make it known. We are responsible to the people. You said it was something to stand up to, so that's exactly not what to stand up to. It should be opposed to Europe continuing to concentrate bureaucratically in Brussels because it loses a small one. The big ones are always big. That's what you have to stand up to, and that's what tends to be. And as a Croat, I will stand up to it. Because there's 5 million or more of us in this space, but that's a little bit. The Estonians have a million and 300 grand, even less. And finally, I ask you, you ask the question that you need to ask yourself why Croatian citizens didn't go to the streets and why they didn't rebel. And I wonder why not. Maybe because they're reasonable, maybe because they see who's offering solutions. Maybe it's because they have reasonable patience because they see that the government isn't peeling them, trying to fight, doing its best, reacting when it's critical, not flaunting itself with populist promises, watching what it says and doing. I wish Greece all the best but Croatia has never lived at the level of Austria, and it is said that it can live at the level of Austria and earn as Croatia. And he won't. One day we'll be earning as Austria, until then we'll be living as Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97562	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97563	Dear President of the Croatian Government, you said one sentence with which I fully agree, we have no bank sovereignty. Unfortunately, we don't have it. Here, I said in the report there's only one sentence talking about the banking union. For you, it may not be crucial, it doesn't matter, we may not have enough information that the banking union is offering, but we have some information that might be. We have some fear that's justified, that's justified. What fear? So we live in Croatia, we should be very afraid. The fact that you said people don't go out into the streets because they know the government is offering them something, people don't go out on the streets because of depression, she killed them, they died from depression. That's why they don't come out. How do you think 300 and a few thousand unemployed who put together a deal with the end can be satisfied and see some perspective. Secondly, you said to read the dartty's, I read it, darty's a bad book, it's not a good book, anyway read Zizek and his opinion on the pixel. Picketty was neoliberal. A little softer neoliberal, nothing else. That's what I'm talking about. The fact that it's blown up, a book that doesn't offer any solution, except maybe it's about an unfair redistribution of wealth that every neoliberal will say. If that's good, tell me, what piquetty is offering a capital solution? It just seems like we're on different ideological sides, which is good, and you said here, which I agree with you, the Parliament is a pay phone on which you can speak freely, so I speak as freely as you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97564	Thank you very much. Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97565	Come on, you haven't read your hand on your heart. Put your hand on your heart. To say that this man is neoliberal is like to say to the pope that he is a communist. He's not a communist. Just like he didn't neoliberal. The solutions that this man offers are extremely social, one of them is corporate, global tax, one of them is a global property tax. That's not what a dear God can do. It's pure utopia. It's your friend who's usually a brilliant scientist who's been researching statistics for years and years since the beginning of an industrial revolution that Marks has not been available, so he wrote in his head capital, this capital, this capital is a capital work, seminally, superbly, and he's a great read, but the political solutions he offers are unrealistic and I disagree with that. There's so much about him. So let's introduce people to things, that's important, think it's between policymakers today and political if you want to debate. The European Council is also discussing this. And the stenogram from the European Council is gone. So I can't give you any picnics about purses and shoes and that's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97566	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97567	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I have answered the line because you have pointed out twice how Austria reacted. Very interesting that the Austrian governor of their central bank said something quite different last week. So the total share of credit in Swiss in Austria, so on all loans that are in Austria is 18%. That's what he said in Yuromania when he was talking about the monster that's happening right now, Hungarians have 27, Poles 12%. So much for the truth. Because when we talk about some things, then there's something to be said. The second thing is the report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings held by the European Council. You were talking about the deficit. You know well that Europe measures us as regards deficits according to the ESA 2010 methodology. According to this methodology, the deficit of the Republic of Croatia in 2014 is quite different. This national methodology that we're using, it's a methodology that simply doesn't exist, but when we're talking if we stick to a point, and I can relocate with you about this, the one, you filed the report, you went a little bit wider. However, given the point of the agenda, we must then use the official methodology of the European Union. Because we in the European Union will not be measured by this methodology but by ESA 2010. Because if we're going to talk about the national methodology, then we're not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97568	The reply to the replica of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97569	Dear colleague, we know very well what methodology is being used and we know very well that we cannot sell fog to anyone and we will not, and that is how we behave. And what happened before? There was nothing before. I think, so when you talk about loans in Austria, when you talk about 18% of credit being in Swiss, it's 18% in all foreign currencies, both in yen and in dollars. And that just shows that people everywhere are weak and exposed at some point. However, they reacted. If they hadn't reacted then, the state had not responded, if it hadn't been for the policy impulse, maybe people would have retreated and led for it even more. They reacted, we didn't. I actually see it as a failure of the executive authority because it is a situation in which executive power and monetary authority should react, but above all politics, the Government, the Parliament that are there to protect citizens, to work for them and the National Bank has two tasks, to take down all these mysteries, inflation and kuna courses according to the euro. And this is the largest foreign exchange reserve we have, which is solid, the biggest and key dam for the growth of the euro rate and the stability of those who have housing loans in the euro. It's a magino line that stretches over the Arden, so it can't get through. And there should be support for the National Bank, not nagging at it what some do, not forcing it to crucify foreign reserves in order to achieve what we can achieve in the Parliament and not ultimately mystify the powers and powers of the National Bank of Croatia. In the overall economy, they're small. Where they exist, they're big in that segment, and that's where we give them support. I could tell you where the governor was in 2004, what the current governor who had no authority of that kind told me at the time. That doesn't make sense. ... So that doesn't make sense. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because they respect, say, the hierarchy. So let's be serious. So some things we missed, nobody's pointing a finger at anyone, I haven't hit banks in three years, I won't do it now, but it's time to make some things and we'll do them and the banks will have to bear part of the responsibility. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97570	Thank you very much. We're going further into the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the club List of Independent Representatives and the esteemed representative Kain and Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97571	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. Yes, the Prime Minister said about it, I'll quote it because I wrote down that thought: "it will never give up on freedom of speech and opinion". And we've known each other for a long time, and I know that the Prime Minister lives up to those values. But I would also like it to be so principled when it comes to media freedoms in Istria and when we talk about these media freedoms Istria is a black hole in media freedoms. By freedom, mostly by the media, Istria is not even a shadow of that Istria in the '90s. until 2009. Before Furio looks like Istria between two wars and right after World War II. And the difference between Istria and this present one is only so much that those who oppose official politics don't end up in the foybe or don't get drunk with castus oil. And that's what I wanted to say, deeply esteeming both the prime minister and the values that live. And curbing different opinions, disallowing any criticism, bribing individual owners and editors-in-chief in Istria, that throws Istria 10 years back. If we are already talking about Europe, then we must also talk about these "quasi-European" values in some places. Secondly, Europe must have serious problems. God forbid we have Western Europe. In the first year of Croatia, the European Union probably took more than it brought. I'm not a Eurosceptic. Which will be in the coming years we'll see about that. Mario dear presented a plan to help the European Union's economy so far. The plan includes the purchase of European euro area bonds that have an investment credit rating of, if I am not mistaken, 60 billion euros per month, starting from March 2015 until September 2016. Croatia is not part of the euro area or the European euro area. What does that mean? They will help Greece, which has the euro, and Croatia, which is the suburbs of Paris and London, is probably just gonna have a walk here. So it's probably the goal of this Europe through inflation to stimulate economic growth, one word purchase growth, one word, boost consumption. On the other hand, as the predecessors spoke of Syriza, she holds a historic one victory in Greece. Parolas leave the savings, the question is whether they can be applied to Croatia as well. Clearly, in the election the people are allowed. It happens, to put it that way, the anger of the despised in the world. 1/3 Greek, someone said just before me, lives below the poverty line. Where are we here in Croatia? This report is another such report submitted by the prime minister to the Croatian Parliament. Where Europe is compared to, say, 2013, if she's better, if she's worse. Where Croatia was in 2014 because of '15. It just started, compared to 2013, whether we're better or worse. Clearly, the point is not only Europe now, but Croatia is important in that Europe. Unfortunately, European funds have such an impression, in recent times or at the very first year of entry into the European Union, have failed. The deficit, which I consider to be extremely good, is significantly smaller than was predicted at the beginning of 2014. The goal must certainly be one stable economy, one healthy economy. Public debt is somewhere around 80 percent of GDP. Every child under the age of 18, and in Croatia there are about 800,000 children, already owes 260 thousand kuna, by the end of the year will surely owe much more. It's just a matter. However, what is still or equally important, Croatia can serve its obligations. This is not disputed and it is good that the banking sector in the Republic of Croatia is stable, as I also want to welcome the recent decision either by the Government or by Parliament, however, on Swiss people. But I want something here and I want to make it up to you. In Swiss, about 23.9 billion kuna loans or loans were issued. 21.9 billion kuna refers to loans for the purchase of apartments. However, 2 billion kunas were issued to craftsmen, loans were issued to our peasants, and they were simply left behind from a few days ago. The cost that was transferred to the banks is about 400 million kuna. If another two billion kunas were to be covered here, it would be one additional cost for banks of 40 million kuna, which would correct one side of injustice against craftsmen, for fishermen, for peasants, and I don't think any particular cost to banks would be important. Clearly, debts should be paid. Debts aren't forgiven. It seems to me that this is how Mrs. Merkel told the Greeks: "You vote as you wish it is your own within political matter, but you must pay your debts. You want to get out of the European Union or the euro area has no problem, but not with our money." What happens in Croatia in 2014? We've heard that the deficit is less than planned for 3 billion kuna, and I personally think it's extremely good. Is the Croatian economy going in the right direction? Do the measures of the Croatian government help the economy, do they help the most needed, the weakest, the most in charge? I want to believe that. Industrial production last year grew at some rates from 1% to 2%, exports from 6% to 9%. These euro weakness measures will likely boost the export economy. The revenues from tourism are somewhat higher, but first of all I see the fact that a large part of the facilities has been legalized, that they appear on the market. That's why in some counties we have a rise in overnight or arrival by 10 and 15, 17%. The very fact that we have entered the EU, and now many foreigners who have cottages, villas in the Adriatic, are starting to rent these apartments. On the other hand, large investments by the European Union or European companies took place in Croatia. Mostly something's going on in the water supply area, Osijek, Poreč, I don't know where. But what's also important to mention is that priorities are determined by someone in Brussels, not by us. I want to believe that the Cooperi project, down Brijuni, will be realized. I want to believe that the citizens of Istria about Plomin C will be about to declare themselves as citizens of Plomino. Zagreb airport is being built. That's good. The General Hospital is on its way to Pula, followed by the Istrian Ipsion, which was provided in the budget only this year by 260 million kuna, about 240 million kuna last year, the previous 220 million kuna. The prime minister mentioned that from these pre-accession European funds so far it has been agreed from a billion 270 million kunas 76% and that, in his term or in the term of office of this government, 967 million kuna or 700 have been better said. Now I may have misrepresented myself. But I'll say it one more time. It turns out that in that first year of EU accession, we gave Europe more than we pulled out of Europe. On the other hand, what the Prime Minister could have done at these meetings of the European Council held or held in Brussels during 2014. Clearly, to participate in the debate. We now also have a new president of the Republic of Croatia who is co-creating foreign policy even though it does not determine it. Is that a blessing, is that a boot? To paraphrase a newspaper article. It remains to be seen. Clearly, the Constitution must do what the constitutional creator or legislator tells it to do and vice versa. The government should also treat the president. I didn't vote for her, but I congratulate her on her success. So, Croatia is what it is. There are four and a half million people here. We're a suburb of Paris, London. As Croatia, we could decide perhaps on some other communities. How much in Europe we'll see. But we better be in Europe than out of Europe. The prime minister mentioned energy, gas, oil in the Adriatic. Absolutely, God forbid it's gas and oil. Shipbuilding to the Croatian government, or when the new government came in 2011 by taking over under the allegations of shipbuilding, also took over nine billion kunas of its obligations, and poor obligations, or placed in shipbuilding, were around 23 billion kuna. I want to believe that Croatia comes out of recession after six years of stagnation, I want to believe that it will happen this year. Also, clearly, God does not allow this crisis to just persist because citizens, a small economy, are more than exhausted. Public finances press interest whose amount has doubled from 2007 to 2014 I said the government had to make a commitment to shipbuilding and healthcare worth 2 billion euros. 9 billion means in shipbuilding, 6 billion in healthcare. Was the crisis recognized in time for that to be discussed. Industrial production in 2014 grew by 2.8% in November, although someone will say there is still no re-industriousisation of the Republic of Croatia. Last year's gross salary is 21.4 billion kuna below the pay level of 2008. Which will say that savings are as much as material expenditures are 7.5 billion kunas or at the level of those in 2007, which will also say that they are being saved. Subsidies amount to 5.2 billion kuna. In one word compared to 2011, the government spent about 4 billion kuna less on salaries, on subsidies, on other expenditures in 2014. And I think it's one right policy, no matter what anyone thinks about that savings policy. All in all this means to us is this dry report entitled on the meetings of the European Council held in Brussels during 2014. There's not much to add, but that's when everyone used and improvised with some other topics, so do I.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97572	A confession in front of you and the public. Thank you very much. We still have two replicas on your exposure improvised. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97573	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you told your colleague Cain that with this Consumer Credit Act, peasants have been neglected. They are, as I understand it, excluded, they are excluded and are not worth what they are worth to other citizens. So what do we got? Of course, we know what we have, what we have in agriculture, what we have witnessed, what we heard in the debate on the Agriculture Act. But I haven't heard from the Prime Minister's report on the European Council today either. I haven't heard anything about that agriculture. Is there a debate about this agriculture, the common agricultural policy, the possibilities, or is it a forbidden topic? Well, I haven't heard anything from you either, you mentioned the peasant but it wasn't mentioned in Istria what kind of agriculture it was, you didn't say anything about the Bokarin or the village that Jakovcic bought, I think you're even a guarantee to him, whether he's going to develop that intensive agricultural production or something to improve that agriculture and achieve competitiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97574	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97575	I was a bailiff in 2006, sorry '96. years, yes, yes, for 100 or 150 thousand marks then, along with Drandic and Soldic, there would be no confusion. ... So he's coming back, he's coming back. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When he wasn't the mayor, those warnings always came. After that, it's all neat, there's no problem. But something else matters there. [[Intruder Leko: Please conduct this conversation outside the assembly.]] How, for example, could someone register or book a $350,000 mortgage on a land purchased for $12,000? That's important, that's important. But let's let it go now, let's get back to these Swiss. Croatian banks have issued 23.9 billion loans to Croatian citizens for the purchase of an apartment, a boat, for example a seaman or a fisherman. 21.9 billion or 92% of that amount is on the purchase of that first or second apartment. Yes, exactly, the turns are left out, the peasants are left out, and I believe that there is a need to redefine these relations and treat them in the same way as the buyers of the apartment or apartment. The cost that was transferred to the banks is about 400 million kuna. If these 2 billion kunas were to redefine the cost that would have been transferred to banks, it would have been about 40 million kuna, but no matter what, one injustice would have been corrected against those who were in charge of starting production, to preserve their property, or I don't know something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97576	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97577	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Cain, you said that, and you let go of the government's praises, you said it was a good thing that the deficit was down by 4 billion and you said you didn't vote for elected president, so I'm going to replicate this to you about the deficit. We all know that all Croatian governments every year, especially in the pre-election year, hid the deficit and hid this government. So I don't blame them, she hid it well and tried to hide it because other than these intrapolitical needs was the need for the EU to spare us or to avoid the Croatian sword of the EU. Well, she tried to hide it. But you're now convincing me that the deficit is really 12.5 billion, and we all know that up to 18 billion and that's a clean bill, a long love. Only in health care is several billion, and in other ministries, the debt the government has hidden. And let her hide, because of the EU. But don't convince me here, don't waste my time here convincing me that that's the case, please. And as for Colinda, you didn't vote for her, so I don't like it, here. In Croatia, Zagorci and the Dalmatians have always changed in power, what have they done well, what is wrong? Let everyone count their bills. This is the first time in history that Istra and Rijeka gave the top of the state. More women, beautiful, speaking languages, cultural, nice in front of your house, and what is it? There's something in your head, like you put concrete in your head. I don't know what it was that offered you and didn't let you vote for it when Rijeka got almost a third of what HDZ never got a third there.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97578	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97579	In the second round, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, the newly elected president, received 20% of the votes in Istria, which never went with HDZ. Yeah, I didn't vote for the president-elect, but I congratulate her on her success. Not only do I congratulate her on her success, but I want every success to her and the people who will surround her, as well as this government, as well as this Parliament, as well as all other institutions of the Republic of Croatia, because their or our success will be the success of the country as a whole. Yeah, and I'm glad you're supposed to choose to have a newly elected president speaking with a hammer. As far as the deficit itself is concerned if we join the deficit of the Croatian highways, the Rijeka-Zagreb highway, local self-government and some other institutions, then it would certainly be more than 12 billion kuna, but it is undeniable that in the past year the budget of this government has been reduced by around 4 billion kuna, which is a great effort for everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97580	Thank you very much. We're going after the clubs. HDSSB club. ... There's no replica you can only propose. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97581	Uh, since it was a colleague Marasovic 11 years ago, tall, handsome, blue eyes, speaks languages. Yeah, yeah. Be careful with that. I'm just saying that what my colleague Cain is saying doesn't knock on the open door, the door actually doesn't. So I have already ordered the Minister of Finance to introduce in the procedure amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions, which is before the Parliament for some other reasons, compliance with European law and to the Aqis to introduce this amendment so that people who are not formally citizens of so-called natural persons, craftsmen and OPGs, but who again do not have corporate status, will also be covered by these measures, so that the same rule of the Swiss franc course applies to 6.39. That's not the current solution, that's the solution we're going to be watching for a year now and taking care of every detail all the time. And I'm glad that's what the big majority said, and I don't think it's right that now those who never thought of it before are getting caught up in the fact that this one's on or off. In the end it's all going to be as you should know, but it's someone who should have done it eventually and cut it off. And I have to admit that I haven't heard from anyone in this House, except those who are systematically accounting with the People's Bank, I guess they'd like to take it. But they have to explain then, and especially not from the former finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97582	Thank you, too. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. Two representatives of the HDSSB club are coming up, a respected colleague, Josip Salapic and Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97583	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. After our long trip of 10 years of negotiations and critical situations, we can generally be dissatisfied with the issues of Croatia's entry into the EU, Prime Minister. Not only do we put this on your own right now but also the situation in which Croatia was found when you took over power with the coalition in Croatia, and with the one we can now freely say after three years of unreal promises that you could not fulfill. Is it only now the burden of your entire government, is it the burden of our policy, which generally seems to be missed when some coalitions are put before the elections and agree, so unequal people are politically similar to those who take over certain resolutions and where they cannot achieve good results? It is not even your sin but the sin of all structures and policies so far when you have to give someone a place in some key portfolio, and it is not capable of doing my homework at home, let alone in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Our problems are neither Greece nor the victory of the coalition in Greece nor unfortunately the events that were in France, our problems are real home at home, and after full membership we are already eating this, we have received several times the European Commission's pucks, deserved, we have received warnings that we must behave as regards the state budget. And what you did, and your government, we can commend it freely and honestly, and the Minister of Finance, Mr. Lalovec, who somehow illuminated the face of your government. This measure you had last week we supported it as a club, the law you've passed, is a year but you've helped people and we think it's a good state and political move. Also, the write-off of debts to people who have been in trouble for up to 35,000 kunas, although there are still cases that unfortunately cannot fall under this measure, is the same move that will help at least some people. And what we really need to do, you talked to the Prime Minister about exports, unfortunately I will mention my city of Osijek, Osijek-Baranja County, Slavonia and Baranja, what we are successful at exporting, is growing exports of highly educated young people leaving Osijek and Ireland in large numbers, where they lie there for days in some motels looking for accommodation where they will sleep and write daily about how hard it is to find a job. And when they find this job with a high profession, college does some miserable things that are humiliating, and they have to survive. I think our mission and your Prime Minister and your government, but all of us here in Parliament, too, would be to save our country, to save young people who have a hard time schooling, and I can't find a job in my country and leave. We lose a lot of money here, regardless of what our positions are now in terms of the EU's general policy, some promises we may have received as well as full members, so they are not being made to us. These pucks we get can be looked back at that we don’t even need to listen to what we’re told, we should simply go to those problems at home. As a party, we have advocated constitutional changes that need to change the territorial structure of Croatia, that too much money is spent on such a massive administration, on a large number of counties, municipalities and cities. That once we've created a homeland in the Homeland War, we've come to a situation today that these local units can't withstand the burdens they put before them. And that key move, now do it in this last year of your term, you would certainly lose the election. If you'd done all this in the first year, you'd have gotten our support no matter what the task of the opposition is to always be against it. We think that sometimes it should also be for when it comes to good measures for Croatia. As a party, we received large packages when we wanted to support the amendments to the Constitution and our only goal was to invite the public of Croatia and our citizens to point out that we do not need this number of counties and to make structural reforms, reforms of the general administration, reforms of the state administration are necessary. We can look up to the model of Denmark but if you and your government won the election, so you have a good move, you should always get both support and opposition. What's a world-famous debate worth to us, what's worth discussing that's going back in time and we're not going to talk about the future for real? And why don't you make some good move and your government can back up a party that's... that's right or that's the party center if you've made a good political move. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There you will always have support. But, realistically, I don't know, and I'm afraid you'll have time in this last year in this way that you're going to deal with banks when loans in francs are going to be able to end up pushing what's right in front of us. I do not want to be pessimistic, and you spoke optimistically about the report with held meetings of the European Council. That's what you have to do under the Rules of Procedure. I think that we should really roll all the sleeves and try to help our country and our citizens to just start breathing deeply as a member of the European Union. There is no use in our membership if we will praise those small steps and in the big things in the lives of our citizens, at home, here in Croatia you can see nothing. I'm sorry to have to talk about my city in such a way that it becomes a wasteland city, that some projects have been launched since Mr. Bubalo was mayor. And today they're being talked about as some new things and it's already been three years since he's not the mayor. It happens that we come to a town where there's no big company anymore, you can't find a job, you finish college and you sit at home. Young people have trouble with the street, with cafes, with some kind of loosing, with depression. It's all true, and we need to be realistic. I say, it is not only a burden and to say some sin to you personally but also, and the government you run, but also the ways and problems you took over when you became Croatian Prime Minister. I don't think there's much to say or politicize in this report, that's the practice we have to have. But I am afraid that we are the only reason for our membership where we can remember, and that is that we have 11 representatives in the European Parliament, and I will remember the time when we were in Austro-Hungarians were said to be representatives from Croatia. So let's not let these scholarships of 67,000 euros be ours without real, true elements of our positive membership in the European Union being recognized. That would be bad for both your government and any future government. I hope that this year we'll hear a little bit better news than in the past where we've had a lot, a lot of problems that, unfortunately, for various reasons, you haven't been able to solve. Now here's my colleague Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97584	On behalf of the same club, respected representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97585	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Here's my colleague Salapic said a lot, but what's important for the HDSSB is important national policy, international policy and also a relationship to Slavonia and Baranja for our region. Looking back from 1.7.2013, ever since we entered the European Union, we must surely draw the line and see what the benefits are, what the shortcomings are. But what's most important to people who live in Slavonia and Baranja and Croatia is what our results are in this period. Looking at this material that we have, it would be much easier to have stenograms from these sessions and to see clearly what interests our prime minister represented. But also what would be important if he had a plan, I would say by 2020, if we had to fight about it and argue in this Croatian Assembly but to reach a clear national consensus. But what concerns us in Slavonia and Baranja is growth, competitiveness, as well as employment, but also a foundation that will be very significant in the next period, it is Serbia's entry into the European Union but also unresolved and our relations especially when we talk about the border, when we talk about... when we talk about all those problems that affect us living in that space of Slavonia and Baranja. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Looking at the figures that the prime minister has just said about the funds, when we talk about pre-accession funds that 487 million euros are paid, then we can say that a lot has been done in that period but it is much more important that exactly the plans that are coming, the strategies and what is important is how we are going to consume the period 2014-2020, but so far we still can't boast about the funds withdrawn. And that when we look at the funds, when we look at what we pulled, then we're sure to see one disproportionate. When we look at our region of Slavonia and Baranja for sure that we were expecting regionalisation, also fiscal decentralisation, and I wish that the prime minister represented his 21st plan, which he won the previous elections precisely and at those meetings because regionalisation is also a rounding of local administration units, reducing costs is one of our priorities. Looking at our rural development, looking at our operational plans, seeing that the operational plans are not agreed and the competitions are going, then we can say we're going blind and that's what we're worried about. Then we could've gotten on with it a lot sooner, I'd have said contests. We must look at the interest of the Republic of Croatia, we must look at macroeconomic stability. And when I hear a sentence that we'll reach it within a reasonable period, that's what doesn't satisfy us, we want it as soon as possible, as soon as possible. And seeing as we have entered the European Union, looking at the risk premiums we are paying, looking at credit ratings, then we can say that entering the European Union has not helped us enough or we have not used it enough. But when we hear about 300 billion euros and what will happen in the coming months, then we need to see our chance. Looking at Slavonia's and Baranja's interest, surely the water stairway of Osijek, the water stairway on the Drava River is a very good chance because not only... energy policy but it is very important to protect it from the floods, and we felt it very much last year. Therefore, I expect the President of the Croatian Government to discuss the water step of Osijek for the next month and in Croatia, not only for flood protection but 30 thousand hectares that would be irrigated and... the potentials that would have been in the use of electricity and electricity generation, and the studies were made and we were partners with the Ministry of Agriculture, HEP, Croatian Waters, HAC, but Osijek-Baranja County continues to insist on this project and this is a topic that should certainly be opened on the Croatian Government, but also in relation to the Brussels. Looking at our high centralisation, looking at what we have done with income tax, surely that the government should focus more on the possibility of giving units of local and regional administrations exactly those lost 2 billion kunas to co-finance their projects and preparations in order to make as much money as possible in the coming time, right from the European Union, in order to take advantage of the European Union, not the European Union to us. Therefore, we expect not only a report on the European Council meetings held in Brussels but also a clear plan where Croatia 2020 is, where it is Slavonia and Baranja 2020, because we know on the basis of our experiences that we have often seen in the talks and in the accession of the European Union that we have had copyists, non-negotiators who represented the interests of Croatia, the interests of Slavonia and Baranja, and there we have to correct ourselves in some things, clearly accept what comes from the field of local and regional administration units, and often if we have to ask questions and take this very opportunity. Looking at economic growth, looking at competitiveness, looking at jobs, we haven't achieved the opportunities and perspectives we expected, but we can conclude today that we live in Croatia and we pay credits as if we live in Switzerland, that we live in Croatia and that we are increasingly moving towards that debt, which is the debt of Greece. Therefore, we must take a clear position here, a clear national policy, and that is exactly what the HDSSB will support in the coming time. Everything that's good we've always been able to support, but everything that's wrong is clearly criticized, argued. Therefore, the HDSSB is precisely a national strategy in all policies, whether it refers to public debt, whether it refers to culture, sport, environmental protection and all of those European policies that we can consume and attract funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97586	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. One at the presentation of respected counterpart Josip Salapic and the other at the exhibition of colleagues Kresimir Bubal. He is the first of his colleagues from the Bora Grubisic club. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97587	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Salapic, you said you welcome as the HDSB club supported this course fixation measure Friday, so the government's measure, the fixation of the Swiss franc's course to 6,39, so the HDSB club was also in favour of the vote. In fact, it is a positive measure that currently and for a year therefore makes it easier for debtors, and there are about 60 thousand, this difficult situation. But what was still on Friday, which was one amendment that spoke about reaching a conclusion regarding the ban on performance, pedidab, and the actions produced by one, and there are also a number of others, the Credit Cooperative or the Savings Cooperative. It's about the Raiffeisen Society. The conclusion here at the Croatian Parliament is unfortunately not adopted. That is why the HDSSB has put in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament for almost 6 months now a proposal for a conclusion on the implementation of the previous debate for the legal suspension of the enforcement, pedidab and the occupation of Croatian citizens from the only property they own and in which they live. I expect that in your response to the replica, but also the prime minister of these days, you will take urgent measures, such as those taken and therefore the height of the value of the Swiss franc, that this problem, which is very current and where there are indeed a lot of pheidabes, the performance, is also solved by a move or a proposal legally from the Government or a similar proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97588	Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97589	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Grubisic, it is true that for six months our legal proposal stands in the procedure of the Assembly. It would be a good thing that sooner that the President of the Parliament or Prime Minister or President of the Government solve the problem, because what the Association is doing, the Living Wall, I think that we, we have the elements and levers of the legislative authority in our hands that this law, the Executive Law, are changing and helping people who are in trouble. I am personally against it, my colleague Grubisic, that any policy is based on the plight of citizens because preventing action at a given time and a day is a help and I support it, and what with other days, how these people will live on, which is with their real estate, which is with the legal framework of the problem. I can find myself, we've had a case to prevent a man's private ownership, it's a private not state property. The man didn't pay the rent, he couldn't, unfortunately, he's poor, he's ten years in someone else's house, he's prevented his actions. We have two problems, we have problems protecting a man who needs help, and the other problem is the legal one, that this person is right, that's his property. And we need the Prime Minister, as soon as possible, to intervene in the executive law. As you've drawn this move on loans in Swiss francs, so pull this move, and that's to solve the executive law in a way that prevents division from the only property in which people live and with their families, the one and only. I think that would be the right political move and you'll get that support. I think it's time for these moves, not to open up space to some groupings that I'm going to say on the torture of citizens to build their political path without real and real help. We are here as advocates to really help our citizens and this should be the goal of this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97590	Thank you, too. Dear representative Jadranka Kosor, at the presentation of counterpart Krešimir Bubal.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97591	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bubalo, I like this one, I would say a small but important democratic step you are about, which was essentially about exposure to both your and your colleagues and those projects and those you disagree with in any other way or in any way that you do not support. So I remember these events when we started building a school in Vishnevac and those banners when I came there as Prime Minister against. But it's good that we're making progress and I really like it and I commend it. But I came forward for something else, because of your finding that talking about negotiations was actually about copyists, not negotiators. I don't agree with that because I think that since it's past the time it's over, it's all going to fall into oblivion, of course, and there will be little to talk about in the future about the merits of all those who have negotiated. These were excellent professionals who invested both time and effort and exceptional knowledge. Negotiations were tough. This occasion should also remind the hardest so far. So Croatia had the most difficult negotiations, most of all chapters 35. The first criteria for opening and closing negotiations so that the negotiators made a maximum effort. And I believe you can believe that they negotiated the best that was of course given in those moments. In particular, I would draw attention to the area of agriculture, and they were extremely difficult. Of course, in Chapter XXIII. but also agriculture, an extremely difficult chapter and to open and close. So let this be an opportunity to thank all of them once again, and these were actually tens and hundreds of people and in the state administration who contributed to our being a member of the EU today and to discuss this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97592	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97593	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Kosor, namely when we talk about what's right or wrong, we always knew how to support what's right and also try what's wrong. Here's a picture of the Visnovez when we started the works, it's still in your memory. I also remember that transparency "With the Adriatic in the EU". But there was a reaction of the citizens, not mine, but a reaction of the citizens to that message. I've been left in my memory, too. What is much more important is that this day began the work at the school, which we also finished in Višnjevac, but also the work on Osijek's southern bypass. I'm sorry that these papers have been running around for a long time. And they were supposed to be finished a long time ago. But it's important to start a path, track it, projects and prepare and implement it. But my thinking and your thinking don't have to be the same, and that's different when we talk about negotiators and copyists. You should congratulate those who have done a good job. But especially when we talk about agriculture in a lot of cases, we felt that we had copyists. And what we often did in talking to people who deal with agriculture, but also to certain associations, we often gave our suggestions. There were a lot of chapters we just needed these chances to make better use of. So I'm sure I'm staying at my point of view that somewhere we've done a good job, somewhere we're not. Those who have done good deeds to them, we should correct those who are not. And that's why it's the Parliament that we're making those arguments that we're hearing in the field and changing things that we can change.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97594	They say that people are happy only those who are happy to remember, so that's not bad. Reporter again, the respected Croatian Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97595	Thank you, Mr. President. One representative, Mr. Marasovic, spoke of the deficit as something that is the subject of cheating, of setting up. He said he understood the government that cheats, that hairs and falsifys account status data, deficits, incomes and expenditures. It is an interesting cultural contribution to political culture in Croatia, one form of behavior. But today, even if you have such affinities, you can't do it anymore. I know there are a lot of people who live on it and for it, but they're getting harder because we screwed them up the way we run the country. Well, a few days ago, I was in Estonia, which is a country that's abject and recognized by how they put everything in electronic format, practically moved to cloud maltenes to a space station so that all the data on them exists somewhere else. If the earth doesn't give God a missing memory of them won't be erased. And that makes one big name and one big marketing. But the truth in a few hours of presentations, I don't usually go to presentations in such visits of state, but this time we went because I wanted to know what it had to show. That's nice, that's really good. It's nothing we don't have, which we haven't had in years as an electronic prescription in health care that we had among the first to introduce my government. We don't have an electronic vote, but the Germans don't have one either. That's unnecessary. They have their reasons in Estonia. They have a slightly more developed electronic signature than we do. That's what we have to do. But they don't have a fiscalization. When we asked them why they didn't have it, they didn't make it. We are. So when we talk about setting up an account we know exactly today in every day, every hour how much money flow was, how much VAT was charged and what was the highest day. It was Vela Ma'am, August 15, 2014. They don't know that. Of course, as usual, we lack self - respect, I think some of us lack self - respect. So the time has passed to count the furniture. There is more advanced Croatia than some countries that are truly richer than us and that will return to anyone who runs the country with gold. Someone mentioned, Mr. Bubalo, a stenogram from the European Council meetings. The clarifications work on how the European Council works because not everyone has to know. Actually, if you're not there, you don't know. There's no stenogram. It's a closed meeting where a certain filtered information goes from part one to diplomats who then convinces what happened. And at a work dinner that can last until 4: 5 a.m., there are no records. My job is to fight for national interests there in accordance with government guidelines, which are relatively precise but can never go to total detail, that if something in the conclusions is contrary to our interests to blocking it with a veto, because all decisions are unanimous, or that I insist on something that is not in the draft conclusions and I insist that it be. It is not easy but it ultimately has far-reaching or can have both material and financial implications. It's always a matter of money, and in 99% of cases it's an internal policy. And it's my supreme responsibility, and if the Prime Minister screws up, you can see it very quickly. I answer to the Government, or the Parliament, to the Parliament and to the Croatian voters. As far as agriculture is concerned, it has not been the case in the last three years, and if people follow the main developments on the European Council, and they are reportedly interested in it as a colleague of Milinovic, then I guess if you read the newspaper, you'd see that it wasn't talked about. Maybe you're not interested in it at all. Maybe it's all expensive just for the sake of the impression. Because if you were interested, you'd know it wasn't about that. And why wasn't there a word? Because the agricultural envelope was the subject of strong and combat debates at the time when the multiannual financial framework, i.e. the envelope, was adopted. We were not yet a full member, but observers, we liked what was agreed in the negotiations. Which, is not bad, maybe it could have been better, which is where I agree with former Prime Minister Mrs Kosor, but after that, there was no debate on agriculture. Because the stakes are divided, the envelopes are divided and each goes their way to the next multiannual plan. Whoever fought for it fought for it. And now it's being spent and assigned. I guess if you're following the EU, you know. And finally, detachment, I agree, but we'll squeeze the banks around the franc, but we need to ensure the flow of money and the willingness of the banks to borrow. If we ask too strict conditions, it's a question of whether they'll lend loans. I have an apartment where I still live like one of my colleagues from HDZ said yesterday and I don't have another. If I stop paying, what's the bank to secure? It's a big dilemma.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97596	Thank you very much. Now we've got a line of replicas, so let's get in line. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97597	Thank you very much. Well, the worst thing is when we talk about rational things irrationally. You see, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, there was once a public presentation in the ministry between the 2nd or 4th or 5th month, both with revenues and expenditures with the last day of the previous month. So media representatives were present, with one single goal of informing the Croatian public about it. It's gone today. And when we talk about the fiscalisation project or the fiscal cashier's whatever you want, then your associates should have given it to you, so we'd see that it's a project that the Ministry of Finance has been working on since 2005, 2006. And it's good for her to come back to life. So I see you're surprised. And allow a bunch of things for the right to speak, but let's just say I don't know if you had any information that there was a monthly presentation at the Ministry of Finance on the state of income and expenditure? And therefore, speak in the way you speak, so do you really think that Croatia would end negotiations that are true what you say? But you like to hit under the belt, you like to make incorrect facts, but I'm saying there are arguments for everything, so there's a fiscal cash register or fiscalization however you want, so you'll see. Therefore, let us not speak falsely. If I recall you were a representative when the budget was adopted, it was that brochure that in one very simple way dictionary Croatian citizens, politicians, tried to bring everyone closer to the budget to see how the funds of the state budget were spent. So you can't say that if it was a document that was public, that was available to everyone, that someone was trying to cover up something. But I'm telling you, I'd like to see by this national methodology of yours to show the deficit of the state budget in 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97598	Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97599	I'd show it to a transparent colleague of Marasovic, you're Marasovic? ... No, you're Marasovic, you're Schuker. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Namely, I was telling Mr. Dr. Marasovic, I did not mention you at all, nor did I criticize or tell you the truth. Unless it's true that Estonia doesn't have anything we have, that's all. You, your presentations that I am convinced were not then and La Marasovic were certainly credible I accept. However, we went much further. In 2005, you started working on fiscalization. Okay, I'm starting to train the marathon. In 20 years, I'll be the world champion of the marathon. Or maybe it's just a tap. What you started in 2005, you started, but when we took over, it wasn't. And if it were that simple, it would have been every country. Like working on the tunnel of St. The deadline started a long time ago, put on a board and pierced 20 meters. And then someone built it, equipped it, and predicted the money. So, please, I didn't mention you, I didn't attack you, I didn't say that you were such a hairdo, but I semi-memised with Mr. Marasovic's statement that every government cheats, so yours too, where you were minister, and that he understands that. And I said that such a worldview and a view of politics and public finances I don't understand. And now I won't say if you recognize your problem. I didn't call you, hello.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97600	Here you go, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97601	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I think the rules of the game are clear in this House of Ours. We have defined this by our Rules of Procedure, on which fellow Stazic is so pleasantly grinning.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97602	What are you looking for, a esteemed colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97603	I think you should simply warn the Prime Minister of the rules of conduct in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97604	Mr. Representative, you've had the opportunity to ask for a break on behalf of the club and nothing more to the Rules of Procedure, and you didn't ask for it. So you've knowingly violated the Rules of Procedure, but let it be yours. We're not going to fix anything. We can take it. Thank you very much. A new replica of the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97605	Thank you very much. Since Mr. Prime Minister and after the opening statement, you've had 3.4 more interventions, this debate that's been on your hands so far is being discussed just not about this document that's on the agenda. So let's give you a chance to say something that was the June session of the area of freedom, security and justice. First, your promise to continue to fight for equality of EU member states as part of the framework decision on a European arrest warrant. Namely, I read this report together with the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a particular session and since this topic is not mentioned anywhere, I ask if we have opened it on the European Council and in the context of the Croatian warrant for Mr Hernadi and not to help the EU bring about the extradition of a foreign citizen who is subject to investigation and trial in Croatia. Second, also the June meeting of the Schengen. Namely, 1.7 if I'm wrong this year, Croatia is planned to apply. I am puzzled by the information that comes from Brussels by our Eurospeakers or some statements by members of the European Commission that Croatia will be put on hold because for one it is a Schengen obstacle, and for other means rather than an obstacle to achieving the area of freedom, security and justice. Thirdly, at the October European Council, it established the new European Commission, if I understand correctly, preparations for the establishment of the Energy Union. Since at this point there is no other information about this you only mentioned how any map for the game of Croatia can you spread anything about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97606	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97607	The Energy Union is much older than the October Council, it's a very, very long topic, and that doesn't mean that someone will take our resources or take our sovereignty to call ourselves an oil and gas research tender. This means greater security of supply in which Croatia is relatively exposed but much less than some other Member States, and we will monitor what is happening there. And if the Energy Union is leading and should lead towards a safer and cheaper supply where we perform as a group and not as individuals, as holding in the supply that should be then it's not bad, we follow. As for the Schengen, I know that there are several representatives whose main job is to gossip about Croatia and do it every day and shame on me no matter what I do. Whether Croatia will enter the Schengen and how much it is up to is decided by someone else. I was in Tallinn two days ago where I was at the Central European Agency for those issues where two of our Croatian people work talked to the director, so at one technical level as prime minister, I go to that level, I talk. The day after tomorrow, I will take the European Commissioner for Regional Policy who is from Romania to the Croatian part so Pelješac at Neum to see what the real problem looks like, the phenomenon of the Pelješko Bridge, and why it is important to us because it is eaten when you speak in Zagreb, and the other thing is if the South doesn't blow us off when you look at it from helicopters, so that's what I do because that's the only way it works. Schengen administered from 1.7 to us, we're good. I remind you that we as a country had the freedom to travel across Europe without a visa and even without a passport to Italy in '94, we are harmless only to be well organized. And the arrest warrant, unfortunately, cannot be discussed on the European Council because that is not the point of the agenda, and I never work here, but not alone, with other channels. Principledly not for this or that Petrovic or Perkovic people I've never seen in my life.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97608	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97609	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, you were talking about fiscalization even though it has nothing to do with this report, but I have to say that I don't share your enthusiasm with fiscalization because it seems to me that something has not been brought into the state budget, and somehow it seems to me that developed European countries that have no fiscalization have a much better tax system and a much better tax collection and are not primarily harassing those who are the most maligned caterers or some small merchants there, but in the opening explanation you spoke and also announced the energy restoration of houses, investments in the sector. Now we're hearing very little about the Environmental Protection Fund alone without local self-government, so I'm very interested in whether it's going to be a new job because it's going to take a couple hundred people to do this job technically without the local self-government that's doing it now in cooperation. But I actually volunteered for rural development and agriculture. The other day at the agricultural law debate I read a part of Mr. Doll's interview that he gave to one of our daily lists. He says this way "Croatia had a good national support system before joining. It has well negotiated the agriculture chapter and there are not many problems related to the subsidies of the common agricultural policy. However, Croatia is in great delay with its rural development programme and is at risk of losing 330m euros in 2015," the first man said in Europe's strongest political options. How do you comment? In these reasons, it turns out differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97610	Thank you very much, reply to the replica, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97611	Excuse me, can you, because I haven't heard exactly what the man's name is and what is his exact duty? Let's all hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97612	They heard, I don't know who... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97613	So let's see how relevant his statement is. Telling me someone who's the CEO there, on the committee, not in the strongest political party, whatever that means. There are groups that collect everything without any criteria. There are those like Syriza who have rigid criteria, so there are few. So the criterion for you is that some policy of one color has sent a message to the government of another color that it is not good. Well, you see, that's exactly the kind of Europe I don't want. So I will not comment on Greece, and I will give them lessons, and I will salt their minds, and I will say what is good for them and what is not. Because that is exactly what such an arrogant performance towards small ones whose lives are not at all relevant to them and whose jobs do not have a slight relationship, which is exactly what can make our people, Greeks, Estonians the European Union unattractive. So it entered a stenogram which is a significant man, the world's agricultural expert said so. You said the first man of the political group. It's a good thing it's in the European Parliament. So as far as our farm is concerned. As for our fiscalization that you said the team was harassing people, here's your message, so order equally harassing people. That won't get us anywhere. These are terrible messages and order must be for everything more or less equal. We make exceptions when people are terribly difficult, when they're in debt in a currency that they couldn't predict, when their property's value falls, when their price rises, the height of the war, it's simple, it's not what they say under water, it's the bottom. So the man is at the bottom. When you're underwater, you're fighting for air. ... That's what we do and you quote the politicians of this camp or that camp, they're great experts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97614	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, you've replaced me and my colleague Milinovic. A colleague of Milinovic is this honorary colleague here in front of me, he who, as Minister of Health, introduced an e-recept for which you received commendation from the European Commission. Well done and fellow Milinovic thanks you and congratulate him on that. And our patients these days when this CESIH thing works a little day, two, three, they see what it's good and how it doesn't work, when it falls. It's a reality. And I'm Stephen Milinkovic. I'm the one talking about agriculture. But not because, for the sake of general impression, I don't need it, I win the election and so 90% with an impression or no impression, I'm the one who lives in agriculture. I'm the one who pays over every one of those O.P.G.s who goes down every day and the days will be ruined. I'm the one who pays for every cow that ended up in a forced slaughter, which is just like that, over every family that's come under unbearable and difficult circumstances, they've just lost their jobs and their existence. It's my call and that's why I'm talking about agriculture and I got everybody's support when we discuss agriculture here that's what it is. And as for the European Commission not to discuss it, it says, quotas, envelopes, etc. are divided, and should be spent. Well, unfortunately, that's the problem. Don't waste it. The rural development measures we've been talking about, it's waiting to be spent, but it's not going. So please ask nicely why they're slapping us so much, giving us so much slaps that we can't spend those rural development funds. There's a lot of it. There's a lot of things we'd like to do, so that's what I'm interested in, and not now because of any impression, it doesn't matter to me at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97616	Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97617	Dear fellow Milinkovic, I apologize for the laps, I know who you are, you're a doctor from Gole, family medicine, right. And here I am sorry that you're crying over cows that end up being forced into slaughter. I don't know what your point of view is about cows ending up on voluntary slaughter, but what you said doesn't exactly hold water. It just doesn't hold water. So the e-recept program is something that started in 2003 at the time of the previous government in collaboration with the World Bank. In cooperation with the World Bank, it is a serious project, not as a fiscalisation, and we can be proud of it. It is therefore much, much, much more serious in the beginning, much more serious than fiscalisation in 2005 and during the eight-year term of the HDZ, from which Mr Milinović has long been Minister, it has been carried out because the means, expertise, consulting, and that is something that is good. But it was very serious about the previous governments led by Ivica Racan. And there's no confusion and no criticism. That's a big difference compared to the situation where you put the board, dig up 2 meters of tuners and say the work begins. It's not the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97618	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and answers to the replicas. Now let's move on to the counseling clubs. The Croatian Democratic Community club is next in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97619	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, are often spoken of more and more often in Croatia about Greece, so I will say here that Greek governments, many of them, have lied and cheated for years and have manipulated numbers and we see where this has brought them all together both economically and socially. So I think we'll all agree, I'm sure that's not the way. Mr. Prime Minister, you didn't speak very much in your opening statement on the report itself. It's not that there's much to talk about and talk about the report itself, but you've actually talked a lot more in the introduction about the failed promises. And I consider the team the 21st plan. So as often as you deny plan 21 as one big promise, that was a promise to Croatian citizens. And unfortunately, as the election year has begun lately, you've been talking more and more about it as if you've taken over yesterday. And today we have often heard some sentences as if for about six months you have all or perhaps seven responsibilities for managing the state. As far as the report itself is concerned, it seems to me that it is somehow more than just a record that, in such a quiet bureaucratic dictionary, picks up topics, some accomplishments, and if we exclude the situation of Ukraine and the African state and Ebola, it is, in fact, most often speaking of some beautiful desires that we cannot apply in Croatia. I will, however, say something about the report itself because I think that some parts, especially in this economic sense, are extremely important for Croatia. So let's just say that in the June so-called report. compliance with the regulations or with the English refit. It says this, on the basis of communication from the European Commission, the European Council has assessed that progress has been made in implementing the programmes for more appropriate and efficient regulation at European Commission and other Member States of the European Union. Unfortunately, we cannot boast in Croatia that we have done anything in line with this, which is the implementation of a programme for more appropriate and effective regulations. Furthermore, the October report mentions structural reforms and investments from China. As far as I know, the Chinese aren't actually talking to each other. There is not a single investment in Croatia, and unfortunately neither structural reforms are considered, unless we call reform a fiscalisation that many praise, but that fiscalisation could have been carried out much more wisely. And finally in this latest report, which is for December, says one part of the support is growing investment, so I'm going to quote here. First, coordinated investment support; secondly, renewed commitment to implementing structural reforms and fiscal responsibility. Unfortunately, after more than three years of your government, it's hard to say that you've adopted any of this, done, accepted whatever you want. And in the end only in this opening part, I must say that I am very sorry that the Government does not seem to be using many other committees except the Committee on European Affairs. I think that Croatia is in a position to benefit from both the Croatian Government and other committees, particularly the Committee on Finance and Economy, in preparation for meetings for the European Council. And so now that we're going further into the debate about what you were talking about, and that's not the subject of the report but the Croatian reality, I'm actually trying to imagine you at these meetings of the European Council, I guess it's quite embarrassing to sit there because unfortunately, with all the potentials that we all know that Croatia has, that's what the foreigners admit, we've been sinking for years and we've actually found ourselves side by side of Greece. Unfortunately, nothing either, but literally nothing or I don't see it, we don't see it, in the past year and a half you haven't done the true Europeanization of Croatia and the integration of Croatia into European economic flows. Unfortunately, we have not taken advantage of any of the opportunities that the European Union offers as an organised market, except that we have allowed young and educated never to leave Croatia more easily. I think we all have to agree here, which is the last three years of responsibility and a year and a half of full membership, for all this together I suppose your government is carrying, I don't know who else would. Our cruel reality says this. Whatever your associates are preparing for you on the subject of competitiveness, you go to the world economic forum, look there what the list of competitiveness of Croatia looks like, I'm sorry you weren't in..., I think there was a place for you there as a Croatian prime minister last week. It says the competition list that Croatia is absolutely the worst member of the European Union, only Greece is worse, with Greece jumping 10 seats over the past year. So the Greeks made progress with all the problems 10 places on the world's competitiveness list. Croatia is unfortunately 77, falling two places. As for public debt and deficits, it is often discussed. I think our public has enough information, too, the fact is that the total debt is going to increase by one 80 billion kuna after four years of this government's mandate. Everyone has already forgotten that this government has taken over a country that has had a credit rating at investment level, it has crushed it into so-called. Junk or garbage, and that the risk premium on Croatian debt is the largest in Europe after, or large almost as Greek, so the biggest one is only Greek. There's more and more talk about unemployment and employment. One thing is problematic, and that's what I think we should talk more about employment. So unemployment today is 320 and a few thousand, but it needs to be taken up. Employment is in a dramatic constant decline, and the number of unemployed has not reached 400 thousand in recent years just because they are young and not just so young, there are several of my colleagues who are 45 and no longer so young left Croatia. Therefore, if tens of thousands of people had never left Croatia more easily in recent years, the figure would unfortunately have been 400 thousand. And finally, what we certainly did not take advantage of for the year and a half before entry, not for this year and a half of how full a member we are, because it is a place to actually make investments, especially in the private sector, to withdraw in time, and not for 5 to 10 years money from European funds, to realise infrastructure projects and finally to start the Croatian economy. I don't see my colleague Jelusic now, and I see him here, who said a few months ago that I'm spreading false pessimism here, which is unfortunately not true, so that I wouldn't be spreading false pessimism, and these are all the figures I've been presenting, I'm going to mention to you in two sentences the report by Mr Deros who was here in December last year, who spoke and warned, I believe you got that presentation, at five key risks and imbalances for Croatia. One, says incompetence or competitiveness, depends on how you look. So says the erosion of Croatia's share in the total export market in Europe. So as much as we boast, we actually had a debate about export figures last week, unfortunately the European methodology is different from Croatia, and then we don't have the exact figures of how much Croatian exports are currently. Unfortunately, he didn't grow up, we'd all like to, but he didn't grow at 10%. And at the same time, our industrial production is talking about it. Industrial production in Croatia grew around 1% last year, which then logically explains that even exports could not grow 10%. At the same time, however, our competitors, above all from Central Europe, say the figure: Hungarian production grew by 9%, Romanian by 9%, Slovenian by 3.7%, Slovak by 5.5%, which will say if our output grew 1%, which means that we are actually falling deeper and deeper and deeper in that exports within the EU and as far as industrial production is concerned. Other risks are being warned by the European Commission about the capacity of adaptation, I quote translated from the English weakness of business environment and labour markets significantly deepening and prolonging the crisis. Third, the deleveraging of the private sector, which, despite all the measures, by alleged measures, of course, has not solved anything in the private sector since economic growth does not exist is still over-indebted. Financial stability, for the time being, banks are still resilient and therefore careful when this assembly is discussing banks because what we are discussing has an impact not only on banks but on the financial market in Croatia in general. However, what is the problem, which is that the high still increases the share of uncharging loans from Croatian banks and at the end of public finances says the European Commission is extremely high in debt and deficit. Unfortunately, we will probably have to wait until February of this year, so we will find out from the European Commission how much the European methodology is, rather than the national methodology, a real deficit in last year. However, we wish that wasn't the case, so if last week I had a question for you that you didn't answer, of course, which is whether you guarantee that our deficit in the last year is 12.8 billion. And finally, as 28 members of the European Union, Croatia is a small and open economy, which unfortunately is becoming less competitive and with increasing risks, the risks for foreign investors that bypass us, and thus we are increasingly isolated regardless of our potential that clearly exists. However, what needs to be particularly concerned is that foreign and Croatian investors as well as foreign investors are trying to find other routes, some other places to invest, and we are witnessing that some entrepreneurs are moving production from Croatia. That I assure you is not because they would want it, but because it is necessary to make them survive. All this together at the end of the day we're here because for the past year we've been working intensively instead of growing investment and supporting investors, you're dealing with political opponents instead of working on Schengen for a year and a half, that you're working on Schengen, we've been discussing lex Perkovic here a year and a half ago. Instead of hiring, we witness the escape of young and educated, even entrepreneurs beyond our country's borders. And instead of the reforms a lot of talk is about, but none of the serious ones have been implemented, and that's what we see is a tax spin where taxes change from today to tomorrow, they go up, down, left, right. No one knows within six months what the Croatian tax system will look like. The result, of course, is the economic downturn, the explosion of debt. And what I want to say in the end, and I think it's necessary to raise awareness of the sovereign debt, is not someone else's debt. The government debt is all of us, all of our citizens and our children. So be careful with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97620	Now we'll move on to the replicas. Daniel Mondekar, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97621	Thank you. Well, my dear colleague, first of all, in the first sentence was the question of the refit of that regulatory fitness, or the issue of the deforestation of the regulatory forest. Well, it's not in the Member States. It is a process conducted at European level to break the documentation, to break EU regulations that are then transposed into the Republic of Croatia. Let us remember that Croatia translated about its cost, went to transpose hundreds of pages of different acts that we made, spent millions of kunas the Commission said and look at the people we cut and it is no longer in force. Simply refit is a process that Brussels must speed up, which will then be seen indirectly in Croatia in the future. Secondly, the committees of the Parliament participate in the decision making processes because legislative power has the Commission. The Council is a helm, the Commission's power of legislation is legitimate. The acts come to the Parliament and the Council of the European Union, so it is the ministers who act with the Commission and Parliament, the committees participate. The Juncker programme the Council has now said can now be discussed in the Assembly not once, but on three committees and probably three times. So that's what the process looks like. The funds, we heard people. I mean, I don't know if those numbers don't match you. I know a little bit about this, but 75% of the funds agreed up to this last period and this last period we are among the really first in spite of the apologetics of the evil malice that we will not see these money for years among the first to get operational programmes, although the European Commission, who was late for the last few months, was late for the Commission. And if it was the way Barroso was doing business we'd only see the summer of the operational program, in the summer of 2015. Third thing. If export growth has not grown and production, I think that should be said clearly. And finally, here in Parliament, we had Deros. On two occasions I spoke to him before the Parliament and remember what the man said. This government also has a sometimes historic duty to finally start changing the state, because to quote his sentence "This government has been struggling over decades of wrong decisions before." I quote Mr. Deros. [[Thank you, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97622	Replication response, Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97623	I wouldn't go decades back, anything would happen in decades, really, but I would still quote the prime minister from the beginning of the term of hit Rodus hitz salt. Let go of that and what happened five and ten years ago, let alone 35 years ago. I mentioned the refit in the context, so unfortunately nothing in Croatia is done exactly on the subject of simplifying the rules. When you talk to any entrepreneur, especially strangers, they absolutely don't get along. Even those who do not come from Austria, Germany, but from transition countries or post-transition countries. So, in that context, I was talking. So we are far from beginning, simplifying obstacles, i.e. removing barriers to investors and entrepreneurs and simplifying regulations. Unfortunately, in that context, I also talked about how wise it would be to consult committees regardless of what someone there wrote in the procedure of more people, more knows. And I don't think Croatia is in a position to reject anyone who has anything to say publicly or unpublicly at some committee meeting that is also public. As for the funds, so the mantra is always arranged. Great, but we've been in the European Union for a year and a half. We'd all like to see those results. No results. There's no money like we see it. The projects are small. Serious strategic investments have been discussed here all the time about strategic projects. What's the last one? 2011 Zagreb airport launched? Export? We'll probably know in a few months, because we've got that double standard again. A little European methodology, a little Croatian, as when this government fits. However, we would all like to see exports grow 10%. There is an estimate that this export growth is unfortunately only 3%. And that's what I was saying in the context that others are progressing much faster, and that we have potential and that we could advance much faster, but we are lagging behind, and we are increasingly at the bottom of a lot of things even by export.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97624	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97625	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Milosevic, everything you've been talking about is true. Yes, you pointed to problems. You spoke in numbers, and behind all these numbers are living people, people who are poor, who have no business. This government is now told by colleague Mondekar that she has been praised for having a historic duty. The government should have used only that Croatia has become an equal member of the EU. This government should have used it in such a way that Croatia is an open market of 500 million people. And how did she use it? She used it to open the market for 4.5 million Croats and Croats of young people to go after bread with their stomachs. Why? Because this government has its own hello as the Prime Minister of Karamba says in politics, it has brought incompetence. Well, I think the historic duty of this government would be to thank and to give the possibility for another government to take this Croatia out of this state.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97626	Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97627	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, to what you've said, my colleagues, I'm going to do one thing, and this is calculated and you can check, over the past three years, the decline in the standards of Croatian citizens is 10%. And it's not the invention of HDZ, it's the calculation of economic analysts. Like the 12th quarter of the economy in a row. I don't think it has anything to do with the malice from these benches, 'cause here we are, I guess, falsifying numbers. They're real facts. But Mr. Prime Minister is in the way of real facts, and apparently he's not comfortable with this kind of debate. Specifically, reasoned on specific issues. It's easy to lamentate and it's easy to give lectures about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97628	Djuro Drinker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97629	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your colleague Milosevic looked back at what Prime Minister Milanovic said in his statement, and he tried not to know which times to present the incorrect facts. In fact, he brought them up, but with the intention of deception to the public, it should be mentioned once more, regardless of what his colleague Hrg once tried to do in his replica, but here we heard what he got, not a concrete answer, but an insult. So, the fact is that Croatia has 10 billion euros at its disposal, of which 2 billion euros for agriculture. The fact is that Croatia has not yet passed a rural development programme, which makes it possible to withdraw funds from the Agricultural Fund. The fact is that there are no operational programmes and in fact 380m euros have become very problematic and questionable for the past year, and this year the next 300m euros are already coming and so on until 2020. And instead of answering the question, what are the reasons why the administration of this government is so sloppy and incompetent that it cannot lead to the level of acceptability of the document, to organisational capacity, but blames, of course, those who even well-intentionedly comment that something must be done, that a serious move forward must be made in order to access these funds. So, and what you mentioned yourself, instead of serious moves, we experience serious activities here inexorable insults. Unfortunately, it doesn't even entertain anyone anymore but only further and further leads this country to ruin.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97630	Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97631	Well, it's hard for me to think of any reasonable and rational regardless of the invitation of the Prime Minister to be... here in the Croatian Parliament given the situation in which we all live and work together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So maybe in some northern country out there in northern Europe they can laugh, unfortunately we have nothing to laugh about here. And for starters, if you want to change anything in life, you have to be willing to admit reality, or reality, accept numbers as they are, facts as they are, and when you just know where you are, then you can start to change the situation. It's completely inconclusive, and it's also inappropriate to pour all of us here into all sorts of numbers that give a false picture of a false reality that shows that this whole government is working. And as for the EU's Popicorn funds, which you mentioned, if I remember correctly a few six months ago, the Vice-President of the Government of the Economy pulled out that it wasn't some software, the computers didn't do anything, so they couldn't prepare and send the documents to Brussels in time. So is it really a decently serious government that manages the state in this kind of trouble?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97632	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97633	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. In your presentation, Col. Milosevic, you specifically referred to these reports by the Government with meetings of the European Commission. It might be good to reiterate the topics actually discussed at these 4 last meetings in March, June, October and December, and they were mainly related to industrial competitiveness, to the employment of young people, support for growth in investment, economic growth, energy independence. And now that you're repainting it to the Republic of Croatia, you'll actually see if you're compatriating which topics we've been having in those two or three years entertaining the Croatian public. And they were mostly both light-headed and ideological. Related to the Cyrillic in Vukovar, the introduction of health care, the abolition of patronage over Bleiburg, lexa Perkovic, ratification of a harmful agreement with BiH, a referendum on the definition of marriage. In fact, the question arises whether this government really needs to knock its head against the wall and finally realize that one concrete, one competitive and stable economic environment with one necessary tax discharge without the legal uncertainty that is present in the Republic and through, if you want, functional decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia that is so talked about. Because it should go through economic recovery using both material and human resources in the Republic of Croatia to stop young people from leaving and to think about a serious problem in the Republic of Croatia, which is a demographic problem. They don't actually have a vision and they don't have the ability to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97634	Reply to the replica Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97635	So I'm going to use the words of the Prime Minister himself who said to him, I guess, this government isn't banging its head against the wall, it's banging its head on the door. Well, then I guess after a couple of times he hits his head against the door or he's gonna snap the door or he's gonna snap his head off, it's up to what door the tree's made of. But what is a fact and this sad fact that shows analysis of economic analysts in Croatia, which is that in this 3.4 years this government will leave behind one other than 80 billion kuna of a new Croatian debt that I was talking about, on top of the crisis in countries like Spain and Portugal, Croatian citizens have lost one 100 billion kuna to the value of their assets, I'm talking about a residential real estate fund, on top of which we're talking about 15. 16% down the value of real estate in countries that are seriously affected by the crisis. That's 100 billion, this is another hundred billion kuna worth of loss. Unfortunately, there is no estimate of how much is lost in the value of Croatian companies, it must be tens of billions of kunas. On top of that, six billion kunas have already been taken from the second pension post. We are here talking to distinguished colleagues about hundreds of billions of kunas in a country that has a GDP in hundreds of billions of kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97636	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97637	Col. Milosevic, don't you find it odd that a country that is an EU member uses the EU's official Eurostat methodology when it fits, and when it doesn't fit, it uses its own methodology and this is the case for these quasi-positive export results. Yes, exports may have grown 2% or 3%, but primarily because of a change in methodology not because of some economic swing or swing in the Republic of Croatia because when we talk about industrial production, when we look at the fall of employees. Then the question arises, and who produced it all together? So you need to use the data. But there is something that will unfortunately break over the next government's head, which is the methodology around the deficit. It is very interesting when it was intended to show how incompetent the government was then all guarantees of Croatian shipbuilding were pushed into the deficit of the state budget. Now I'm just asking what's with all the guarantees to HZ that have been in the past three years where what year's deficit of the state budget is going to be shown? Today, we have the agenda of the Budget Law, and when you look at this Budget Act, as well as when the debate on the Law on the implementation of the State Budget was held, then it is said that the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget will not include a legal obligation to say how much of the debt of public debt in GDP is expected, rather than that it will be regulated by the Fiscal Responsibility Act. And look, we still don't have the Budget Law, we don't even have the Fiscal Responsibility Act. It's also in a certain way avoiding... the legal acts you have are giving facts that you can't hair in one way or another. But I'm saying if you're saying what the president of the Croatian government says, then you've got what you like, not what it's like.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97638	Reply to the replica Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97639	Well, as hardly can surprise us more unfortunately that, say, Mr. Prime Minister when he speaks and when the replicas from the main opposition party are not needed to be here and as he has repeatedly commented here to get into this debate, so it can be less and less surprising that he is manipulating numbers and using the methodology of national when we like it, European when it suits us and vice versa, then the opposite is used, etc. So this is all saying that the current government doesn't live in reality and reality and that it's not dealing with real problems but that now just because we got into the election year we're going to hear about what was before, which was once and probably so unfortunately right now must be.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97640	It doesn't work for us, so we'll measure here on these watches. Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97641	Thank you. You said in your debate that I accused you of spreading pessimism. We're not going to talk about who's spreading optimism now, what pessimism is a matter of assessment, but the fact is that I would even agree that you may not intend to spread pessimism because it's not our goal, and yet you're not pessimistic by nature. Your goal is to do something different for both of you personally and you from HDZ, your goal is to show that since this government is and since when is this power that nothing is right and that is the problem. So it's not your goal to spread pessimism and say nothing's wrong. But if it were the way you say it would be really hard and it would be much worse. You say there is no investment, so who would come who would come to the state if only you would listen out of opposition to what you say, how you say is the state. Well, people wouldn't come running, they'd run away with their heads no matter what. Let's talk facts. Exports grew last year. You say the question of methodology, I agree with our methodology as we have done the measurement of exports so far, it has grown 9%, and I agree that it has a part of the turnover. But when we refuse it, there is an irrefutable fact that Croatian exporters also agree that exports grew for the first time in six years. For the first time in six years we have growth in industrial production, the truth of God is not great but it is growth. For the first time in six years, that's good stuff. Well, that's what everyone needs to admit even when they're in opposition. So we haven't had a growth in six years, and now we finally have it. You like to talk from 12 quarters and about the crash of GDP. It's not a 12-quarter problem, and we haven't had a GDP drop in 12 quarters or 3 years, but we've had a GDP drop in six years. Six years in a row. But you keep trying to forget those 3 when that GDP fell three times more than now. Therefore, these are simply facts. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97642	Thank you. We're looking at that watch over there because they don't match. Reply to replica Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97643	We'll manage. Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, first of all, you're right, I'm a natural optimist, although it's harder to keep optimism in Croatia. But there is one danger with false optimism, not pessimism, which is when you spread baseless optimism, then the disappointments of all of us and our citizens are much greater. So you need to manage expectations and that's what this government is doing at first is wrong. And not only that, the mass of each other but well, that's one thing. I think most of the time I talk, I talk to numbers and arguments most of the time. And so, the figures say 12 quarters of economic growth, 2 quarters, decline, two cartels of economic growth in 2011. Look at the decline in tax burden in 2011, the elimination of crisis tax 6 and 12 months earlier, see the number of employees and unemployed then and today. Croatia then had more residents than today. Not just because people die, but because tens of thousands of people go out. So all these together are numbers that need all of us worried. And here I really don't do it from any pessimism fake or not fake, but because it should warn us all. And you should, now the Prime Minister is back, and I'm glad he's back so he can hear it, and that's to start solving problems, you have to recognize reality first of all, you have to face problems and you have to admit them, and you don't get carried away with numbers that aren't unfortunately correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97644	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97645	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear fellow, you're saying you shouldn't look back without this government or coalition looking back and on the other hand talking about numbers and facts. So each number, in order to be comparable, it has to be compared to some numbers before, can't be compared to tomorrow. So I'll just remind you that the deficit in 2011, however you want to do it, by any methodology, was 25 billion kuna. He reached the ceiling of the ceiling. The methodology exists national and there is a European ESA in 2010 and each methodology has been comparable to itself since the previous years. National numbers and ESA 2010 with previous numbers and this is clear and factual. And no one in our coalition is questioning or seeking to interfere. But it is indicated that by another methodology, the deficit will be smaller and that everything is clear and transparent. What is also important to emphasize when you say that false optimism is being introduced and industrial production and exports are growing by all methodologies. And what pessimism is when something grows up, I don't understand at all what you're discussing. But what is also important in 2014 in the CNB report in 9 months, so there are no further accounts for the whole year foreign investments are 2.5 billion euros unlike in 2013 where there were around 50 million euros. That's an increase of 4 to 5%. Otherwise, foreign investments are 10 per cent of investments in Croatia. But it only shows the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia. And yet another important fact of all these investments and in 2013, especially in 2014, is no longer invested in trade and real estate. Most, 90% of these Investment is tourism, high value logistics and production. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] Tourism 4.5 stars.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97646	Thank you. Replica reply, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97647	Thank you. Well, first of all, it's here for the true publicity. In 2011, 25 billion kunas of deficits were created so that 11.5 seems to me to be billions of kunas of total debt in shipbuilding this government parked in 2011. And I think we'll all reasonably agree that the total debt per shipbuilding guarantee is not exactly fair and correct in the one-year deficit. And I doubt it's according to European statistical standards. I don't think so. However, I am quite certain that if European standards were to be applied statistically in 2011, and I will remind us all here there was not a single budget rebalance in 2011, despite the reduction in tax burden and the elimination of the crisis tax 6 and 12 months earlier, it would be less than the last 3 years, of course, individually. That's one thing. And secondly, when it's all expensive fellow Gjurkovic so great, you give me then you explain to all of us and to all Croatian citizens why people in thousands and tens of thousands leave our country? Why do entrepreneurs and craftsmen fail? So I'm the first to say congratulations on 10% export growth, 7% of industrial production growth like in the Czech Republic or Slovakia, but unfortunately that's not the case. And you can't just get away with this construction sector. Yes, the construction sector is in trouble, that first entry is in crisis exit is last, excellent. We lost tens of thousands of jobs there. But people can't be aware of everything that here's the problem is in the construction sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97648	And now Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, please welcome on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97649	We will agree that the main problem of stagnation is the decline of personal consumption. This debate has long ceased to be a debate on the meetings of the European Council, which is a debate on the internal policy which is mainly discussed on the European Councils and we have returned to our home level. And it's good that it is, those are our biggest problems. Ukraine, Greece, all that matters. We're lucky a little bit further than that, but the spaces out there are ringing and there's all the pain and joy for us. So people who are relatively young, who are burdened with debt, who are large loans, will not start spending again if we do not help them. We're going to help them, and that's the only way the economy is going to grow again at some rate, which is obvious and clear as day. That's what we do. I'm going to go work with the governor right now, and I'm going to be replaced by the vice president of the Greeks during the club exposure. As for each of us's contributions, let's look at what we've been doing, we, my party when we've been in opposition for four years. 43 legislative, mostly legislative proposals, 90% in the area of economy, finance, real sector, life, that was the contribution of a large opposition party with nearly 60 MPs in the period 2007-2011. That's the club I ran. During these three years and two months, the opposition party's opposition barely 4 mentions valuable legal proposals, none of which are longer than a few sentences, the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, and then the obligations and rights of state officials. It's nothing, I guess it was about one item. The law amending the Labour Act, that's all, remains personal issues. It's practically nothing. This is what Croatian citizens, voters in the election year must see. So I hate and work, anyway. This is your contribution to the improvement of Croatia. Well done.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97650	You were so quick to report that I didn't have time to write. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97651	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Milanovic, this is yours now, and I've come forward when I say again that you're really spending that nagging caramba policy of yours and that it would really be time for you to do a historic thing and go away. Not you at the meeting now, but your government. You know, you talked about what you're talking about on the councils, so isn't it normal, so Croatia finally understands it is a member of the European Union and of course it will talk to the Council about its internal policy and represent it. And as for these laws you've been talking about, well, Mr. Prime Minister, so the 24 laws you've given the Constitution have been derivated by one 20 to 30 times since you came to power. In the Law on Agriculture on the Ministry and your friend's Minister, it is essential to spend more words, were returned from the European Union regardless of the warnings of the current opposition that they did not comply with the legislation. Well, it's just that sloppy and sloppy policy that's being implemented today in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97652	The reply to the replica of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97653	I don't have a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97654	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97655	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, with all due respect to your 46 proposals, it might be good for the Croatian public to say which of these legal proposals you implemented when you came to power. However, many of the financial-economics you suggested when you came to power you did a diametrically opposite thing. These are facts and we can simply argue politically with those affected by the crisis, and unfortunately we will not help them, either you or I. But there's something else. The laws proposed by the opposition, not only the HDZ, see where they are, but the most drastic example. Mr. President of the Croatian Government and was the conclusion of the HDZ club on the Consumer Loans Act, the second conclusion relating to these poor Croatian citizens who have deceived some institutions that have worked under someone's names. For example, in the debate, all MPs supported it, but at the same time when the ruling majority rejected the conclusion. So let's not use some data as it should be, I wish you were all these 46 laws when you came to power, when you came with them, here these predecessors didn't know it, they didn't get it, they didn't recognize it. You can use whatever word you want, but we'll show consistency and we'll propose these 46 laws. You didn't suggest one, not one. However, in the key laws that you pushed while you were in opposition, you went completely in the diametrical opposite direction. So much for the law. It is not an important number of laws, but it is important that through the debate all, and we can see who has been saying what these past three years, that perhaps sometimes, if not publicly, if it doesn't fit someone, they accept certain suggestions that simply point to common sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97656	The reply to the replica of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97657	It will remain recorded that you were against the French Act and helped the citizens, but you escaped, you ran away from here. You ran out of here so you wouldn't have to manifest yourself, and you've been doing it systematically for three years. So you're not doing anything in this House. What are you doing outside the Parliament that the Croats see. You're not doing anything in the House, so you're not doing an important substrategic job. You can't do that. Maybe it's too complicated for you, but we tried, tried, people wrote, something came back to life, something didn't. That's the huge difference. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure again as a European, come in, come in, look for a club break, whatever, but you won't make me keep my mouth shut. So you've done nothing, you've done nothing, and you've been acting like it for three years. Our people at the time of their opposition mandate were legally active. What you offer Croatian citizens can't read from anything but destruction. Nothing. And from reminding us what happened when you were Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97658	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97659	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, you injured Article 238 because you did not respond to the obvious untruth. We know who escaped, and when he ran from the Parliament, we sat here and ran nowhere. However, both through debate and in public we spoke under what conditions we will uphold the law. But look, Mr. Milanovic, don't tell the truth, don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97660	But now this is no longer a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97661	Don't tell lies and then you... that someone's running away.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97662	A fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97663	So you ran away from the Parliament, you didn't have the guts to vote for the fateful laws. for the Republic of Croatia, but now you have said [[Intruder Zgrebec: A fellow Shucker!]] Now you've told Mr. Milanovic one great lie. [[Intruder Zgrebec: A fellow Shucker!]] You can check the phonogram, you can look at the footage and you'll see that representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community were in the assembly [[Intruder Zgrebec: A fellow Shucker!]] And they didn't run away. [[Grebec raid: It's expired.]] You didn't let us vote You didn't let us vote and don't throw it at me. You're a guest here. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time's up.]] Apparently your pill that calms you down gave you a break, so you got nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97664	And now I should also give you a warning, because you have violated the Rules of Procedure relating to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't vote, you didn't vote on that bill for your own reasons. ... That's not true. [[You can't hear it.]] There's always a vote first on the law, and then on the conclusions that are tied... Because it was because it was a feedback act and it was not about the application of the law. [[You can't hear it.]] Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97665	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm reporting for replication. At the end of your presentation, although you had a series of exhibitions during the morning, I expected you to say what you, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, were initiating at the meetings of the European Council in order to help improve the situation in Croatia. But I finally replicated to you when you spoke about the activities of representatives in the Croatian Parliament who comes from the ranks of opposition, including the Croatian Democratic Community. I am one of those MPs who wrote several acts that were to be discussed at the Parliament session. And here are three years of almost three years I've been waiting for my point to come to order so that we can discuss it, my point, or the point of the Croatian Community club. In this context, you also mentioned the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. You say that's a few words. It was a whole law which was proposed to the Croatian Parliament and which was not adopted, while at the same time your government has been announcing the law for three years and has not sent it into the procedure to the Croatian Parliament, so it will not be sent until the end of the term of office. And as for your engagement when you were in opposition and the president of the SDP club, as you said earlier and yourself, you made 46 laws. Today, when your government proposes laws, the rule is that you have laws with opposite solutions from what you offered while you were in opposition. Therefore, the work that you were doing then was purely populist and nothing and you yourself know that there was nothing you could do with that law, nor did these laws achieve any purpose. For when you were in the midst of these laws, you did not implement them, but went completely other ways than what you were then making.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97666	Thank you very much. Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97667	What you suggested was really the only excess of the law. That's a fact. One in three years. It's important to me. So no one else is anything, practically nothing, you are. A law on maritime good and seaports with some innovations, with some ideas in order. On the other hand, in your county after 20 years and a few years, we opened the works at the first ACI marina. ACI, as you know, is a state-owned company 100%, will always be a state-owned majority. As long as we decide it won't be sold out, we can take someone's partner to capitalize, to get in. It's the same company that's trying to change, adapt to business. It's the same company where you were on the Supervisory Board, which was 100% state back then. It's the same company whose board president then gave you and your colleague a Swiss watch worth $5,000 each. That's what you said you gave your friend and now what I'm saying is true. So sue me! Sue me! It's something that's impossible today. So, I have to tell you that. That's not the kind of thing we're gonna keep quiet about, that's how I don't want to raise kids. Maybe it's rude, but it's true. You give answers to these questions. I live in an apartment that's on loan, I pay the bank, I have a watch for now, and I don't have a watch amongst others, and I don't want my shirt to yell.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97668	Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97669	Thank you. Well, first of all, I call on us not to be offended. I don't think that by insulting each other, we're not going to regain trust in Croatian politicians and politicians, and I think that in this process, the responsibility of the Prime Minister in one country is absolutely the greatest. That's one thing. Second. I think your colleagues from the board, some of your colleagues, will be able to testify to you that I am not in nature destructive but very constructive. I've been trying to propose to the committees on several occasions before anything else at the beginning of this assembly. Unfortunately, the Croatian Parliament has agreed to vote exclusively, here and there, to lamentate and debate the laws and that you have placed the executive power above the legislative one. And we can testify not to repeat what colleagues of Shuker and Bacic who said well, and that is where some of our proposals ended. And in the end, just very specific. If you're going to a meeting with Mr. Vujcic, then I suggest you find a solution for companies like Gredell, DIOKI, the Immunological Institute. Because if you say you are working, then it is absolutely unacceptable to call here for exports and for Croatian production, which is that companies such as Gredelj, DIOKI or the Immunological Institute, which are not just companies, industry, are industrial sectors. Part of the university is connected to some of these companies. These companies wouldn't let anyone in the world go to waste either those who have some old communist system, and God forbid Western capitalism, and that's the meanest guy. Everyone would save jobs and that industry and the knowledge that exists in these companies. Once it goes bankrupt, once it's closed, it's gone. And if we want to be both advanced and be in the European Union, then we have to save that industry. And as for who worked, who didn't work, I think citizens will decide best in the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97670	And a reply to the replica, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97671	I am pleased to see your calm tone, but I must say here that there are other Croatian companies as well. Some build 200m euros worth of ships built in another place in the world, are competitive and expensive. Their management presidents or administrations are in my company when I travel to the Middle East and Central Asia, there ships are delivered and sold, there go Končar and other companies. And what was torn up earlier, we're trying to resuscitate, resuscitate, isn't dead yet, but it's hard. And what's alive is what we're trying to bring back to life. Here she is in Trogir after 3.5 years of sinking the ship. It's not top technology, it's a ship. Is there any right for the government to say that she's at least a little responsible for that? Well, it's small, Poco. I didn't insult anyone, I was here telling the truth to deny it. I expected those of you who called after your colleague to deny the lie I told. I didn't tell a lie and I didn't insult it. I was talking about Seamaster. It's an expensive watch that speaks of the good taste of whoever chose it but also speaks of the eternal subject of human nature, of greed. That's all. Is that an insult? It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97672	Branko Bacic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97673	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure because you should have warned Mr. Prime Minister that when there are no arguments to answer and replicas that I've told him that he shouldn't have been used by an argument of personal insult. It is true, Mr. President, that to me as president of the ACI Supervisory Board on the 25th anniversary of the ACI, the President of the Administration gave the watch to a number of other business partners in the ACI and that watch that was given to me because it was primarily intended for professional divers I gave to a diving society and that watch was not with me. That's one thing. And secondly, when you're talking about how you live in the apartment you paid off, I'd ask you a question about how if you'd never explained to the Croatian public what conditions did you get from Erste Bank when citizens who had the same conditions as you couldn't get? You never explained that to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97674	Thank you very much. Your time is up, thank you. You've run out of time, but it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure either, and I shouldn't have warned anyone since you said you had received that watch, but you couldn't give it away because you were in conflict of interest. Now we will cross, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97675	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister. This debate has been going on in the last hour as if more bird milk were missing in Croatia, and there is only a moment when we will and where we will get birds and start musing them and then we will have everything. And unfortunately, things do not stand as they do not even comply with the promise that Croatia will be the richest country in Europe. And this debate seems to provide a basis for this type of claim that Croatia will be the richest country in Europe. Those who remember, remember that 25 years ago we heard such a promise that Croatia will be the richest country in Europe, the most independent, the most democratic, the most orderly and the most stable. Unfortunately, since that first promise, we have what we have. I believe from this second promise that he should probably not be paid any special attention. I am saying this because of the following thing, a year and a half after Croatia became a full member of the EU and at the moment when the President of the Croatian Government submitted a report on the meetings of the European Council of colleagues and colleagues, it is time to ask ourselves where is the EU today and where are we in that EU? We're like Croatia. We citizens of this country and citizens of the EU. What remains of the EU in view of the political ideals with which the EU has set out? Where are these ideals today, what is left of them, and is it true that some people recognize as indications that instead of political ideals, we have increasingly more and more elements of the economic dictatorship imposed by Brussels, imposed by European centres of power of small countries such as the Republic of Croatia, undeveloped countries, economically exhausted and economically weakened like Croatia? Isn't it time, colleagues and colleagues, for a solid report by the Prime Minister who speaks the way he does, isn't it time we asked that question? So, as far as the question is concerned, where is Europe today. Europe won the Nobel Peace Prize a year ago. Is Europe a Peace Spreader? Is there peace in Europe? Are we sure that in Europe in a year there will be peace the way it was two years ago? And are we asking ourselves why that is? Why does Europe spread its borders in such a way that they come increasingly into conflict? Why doesn't Europe discuss with its internal arrangements so that we don't have the experience we've had recently not only in France, Paris, but in a number of other places? And whether only Islamic terrorists and those who prevent Europe from spreading to its borders are to blame, or Europe must discuss what its responsibility is in this regard about what is the situation with the equality of European citizens, neither Picketty nor anyone else should be quoted for that matter. It's just enough to pass Croatian so you can see what it looks like. There is no need to appeal to the experience of Greece or to the results of Syriza, just to look at how the average Croatian environment lives and see how things are. Go to Dolac and talk to the people and you'll get a full picture. You've got your own loan for your own apartment, you're bailing on someone else's apartment, and it's all coming down to you. It's today's state, it's today's Europe. Today's Europe is unfortunately not growing, today's Europe is stagnating. Today's Europe is not stronger in itself, today's Europe is unfortunately weak in itself and is used by instruments of tightening, not by instruments of strengthening and spreading. And we feel it, and we need to say it not because we are against Europe because we have invested a lot to be its member, some of us more than others, but it is time to start thinking about what Europe is all together, including those who are formally equal as Croatia, and they are really not equal. Our prime minister is equal when he comes to the European Council, unfortunately our country is not and we need to be aware of that. Europe took the financial capital market, took the telecommunications capital market, took the market for everything that was worth taking as a market. What did we get from Europe? We get instructions on how to cut, how to save. And what if it's cutting and saving the killing and the last assumption that a growth policy is developing in Croatia? What if this is cutting and this saving is killing the last chance in Croatia to preserve the elements of the standards of public institutions such as Croatia? Did we ask that question? We didn't. Are we putting him here in the Parliament? No, I don't. We're hunting for the southern communists, as if I don't know what year the HRT has been reporting about the persecution of this or that by the southern communists, and our country is failing. And one party thinks it will get power, maybe it will, but it will not get Croatia unfortunately. As far as Croatia is concerned, what makes Croatia change and chooses for a different position within the EU? What are these countries with which the Republic of Croatia is considering the situation in the EU, which are countries with which Croatia shares its concerns about its own position within the EU? I would like to hear it, if not on the tide I would like to hear it on the Committee on European Politics or the Committee on Foreign Policy, I would like to know it or we have forever tied our destiny to something that unfortunately does not bring prosperity. That's a question for me. As for the topic the prime minister was talking about, the issue of stabilisation, it is true that this government is trying to stabilise state institutions, trying to make them stable, trying to make them functional. But can this be done in the circumstances of the absence of growth and the absence of economic policy on the one hand? And can this be done under the circumstances of the country's full political destabilisation because the political country is unstable? Hard, very hard, very hard. Of this kind of political instability that the government in Croatia for 2 or 3 years because of political conflicts that are completely unproductive as far as the country is concerned, only those who wish to retain power over politics and the state without being controlled and profited. Can it be the stability of institutions if there is no stable and professional judiciary? It's hard and it's not. Take any measure of combating corruption, take any measure that will protect the security of business and the security of investment or the security of decision making, so there are people who are much stronger and much stronger and who can influence judicial processes than people working within the judicial institutions themselves can. Why is that? And why is it irrelevant to us as political parties in the Parliament? Finally, here, HDZ colleagues often talk about leaving, young people are leaving, and they will leave because they will seek better living conditions. If students can't get a job for most of the studies they finish in Croatia after 10 years of colleges, so what they have to wait for but will leave. It is the only advantage that we have open borders with the EU so I can leave. Is this the government's fault? He's carrying part of the responsibility, but the guilt is unfortunately started somewhere long ago. What can I do here? What did we leave to get a job? What did we create to get a job? We agreed we didn't have shipyards, we agreed we didn't have factories, we agreed we didn't have our own economic policy because we didn't have one. Is there a minimum agreement on what business branches the Republic of Croatia wants to develop over the next 10 or 20 years? There isn't. Is there a minimum idea of what our economy should be like by saving it from European funds? Come on, please. Who was that saved, and who got rich on it, and who developed on it? The municipalities that got benches in parks and lighting, tourist centres that got the opportunity to develop a better tourist offer and that's all. But it doesn't develop and it doesn't carry an economy and it needs to be clear. And it's not even designed to be easy to get. The HDZ counterparts, therefore, when criticising the government that the government was slowly solving these problems, are likely to be resolved slowly but not slower than the HDZ government did. But it's not a taste of trouble. The question is, is it our economic policy? Do we have it? What are our development strategies? On what do we base them, and what do we expect from Europe in this regard? If Europe expects us to follow its energy policy, then it must give an answer to which energy policy will correspond to the Croatian interests for the development of its industry and not wait. That's my question. In other words, we gave Europe, and now the question is what is it that Europe is giving us. And to ask that question, colleagues and colleagues, the first thing to ask is that our plans with Croatia are not Perkovic, Mustac or I don't know who else. Not Dujo Marasovic and similar Splitish people. Therefore, this requires colleagues and colleagues to have a serious approach. What the Prime Minister presented is a basis for serious access. It shows the default frames. On us as a small country, the question arises what can we do within these defined frameworks. If energy cannot be co-operated with Russia, who can and when? Or will that also be a promise in terms of Croatia will be the richest country in Europe when I become that and that? If he needs Croatian investments, who will he take them from? If he can't get them in Europe, can he get them in China, can he get them in Asia? Or we wait here to get the green light. So I think it's time we asked a question here, a few colleagues have already asked that question, and that is what we are doing to build our place within the European Union? What we do to fight to finally benefit from the European Union if that benefit can be gained under the circumstances in which in which European Union is it located? [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring your colleague to the end, please.]] And what do we do to fight for the ideals of political freedoms, political rights, including the equality of states and peoples within the European Union?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97676	Thank you very much. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97677	Dear fellow Pupovac, yes, we should or should have discussed, spoken, argued where Europe is today and where we are in this Europe. Which is the dictatorship of capital what you said did to Europe.? And where did that ideal that went to make Europe go, like many citizens think it is and isn't? What we have received from Europe, is this the cutting Europe has often imposed on us? That's what you were talking about in the debate, that's what we should talk about, that's what we should talk about in the Croatian Parliament in the sense of Europe. About what I am, about banking Europe, where we will be united by currency. You also mentioned it, so you gave me a shot at dartty. Why do we continue to agree to the myth that the enormous wealth generated by the capitalist way of production will one day become available to all. It's utupism, it's the greatest utupunism that anyone will give something, and it's this utupism that's also produced pixel in his book. And that it will change in the same political system. Warren Buffyt said tax me I got too much money. They didn't tax him because they don't want exceptions. How he'll be taxed. Picketty supports the same system with different taxes. That's why his pretentiously named book "Capital Deception." Which does not mean that the book should not be read and does not mean that the prime minister should be praised for reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97678	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97679	A dear colleague, unfortunately, Europe has been a place for solutions for a long time, Europe today because it does not change, because it does not face the crisis in the way it should be faced becomes the place where the problem is. It wasn't Greece that produced Syriza, it was that Europe produced Syriza. It wasn't Greece that produced Tsipras, it produced Europe with its Tsipras policy. It wasn't the Greek people who took Papandreou out of power, it was the European policy that knocked him out of power, and the Greek people responded in a way that needed to be answered to protect themselves from such a policy. Unfortunately, we here say Greece is far away and Ukraine is far away. They're neither far nor our business. We are concerned about Ukraine and we are deeply concerned about Greece. But most importantly, about us and Ebola, it concerns us and Syria, but what matters most is us, is our place in Europe and Europe's relationship to us, and there's no talking about it, there's no talking about it. Europe has estranged from us, we have estranged from ourselves, and that is why we are where we are and the time to stop this kind of alienation because the dangers are at home and are nothing less than what is ebola and what is international terrorism.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97680	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97681	Comrade Pupovac, you've been doing well with your debate. I wonder from the people who are following this debate through TV transmissions today, which is the benefit of Croatian citizens by entering the European Union. Did we even try to give them a resume today? The European Council on whose meetings this report was to be, shall draw up the future in some way by the European Union. Little Europe has played with Ukraine, not because of Europe, but because of NATO, that we understand both American interests and that Crimea and the East of Ukraine happened. They went through the Moldovans a little bit, and they forgot about the trance... where we could be the new Crimean. And then there's Georgia with South Ossetia and Abhasia. It will all be topics of debate in this House as Ukraine is now the topic of Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. This is what Europe has brought to Croatia. We escaped from Syria, our oil fields at the first moment. The French gave their fields to the Chinese, cooled their relations with Russia, and now we're going to freeze them because the consent of the president of the state and prime minister on the subject of Russia will be the same, and I won't even talk about China. And finally, the European Central Bank. A billion euros in aid to the European economy through the purchase of government bonds on the secondary market. What do you think these banks will be, will be, to be, the transmission of these government bonds to be paid from the primary European Central Bank emissions and why?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97682	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97683	Europe also forced Croatia and other countries first to have their national banks not have the right to buy state bonds.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97684	Comrade Lesar, time. Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97685	Dear colleague, I'll start from the last thing you said. Croatian banks are named Croatian, they are called Zagrebačka, Privredna and I don't know how, and in other words they are not Croatian long ago. It's almost the same with Croatia. Except for those of us who still speak Croatian to the cafes and the Parliament, and for everything else it is high time to ask ourselves what's wrong with it. I am neither a sovereign, nor a nationalist, but I am a patriot towards this country, according to its citizens, and it is high time to ask that question. And as far as Europe and its eastern neighbourhood are concerned, as it is said, if this Eastern neighbourhood is not Europe and if Europe does not understand and see it as itself, as Europe, Europe is in a great deal of trouble and will allow the European continent to divide and divide as much as possible. For this reason, we need to discuss this policy. Whether Europe is comfortable with this kind of division or Europe should avoid that kind of division and seek possible unity, not necessarily integration, but possible unity. Ukraine was supposed to be a cause for that. It happened the other way around. We hope some lesson is learned, but I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97686	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97687	Your Honor, Madam President. Dear Pupovac, I can tell you that you surprised me today, and somehow surprised me, and I can't understand your recklessness in terms of statements, because then today your statement casts one doubt on everything I've ever thought about and how you presented yourself. You said literally, you literally said, one party thinking of HDZ because you must be obsessed with HDZ, can come to power but will not have Croatia. We have Croatia, we have Mr. Pupovac Croatia. The party couldn't deal with it when you voted whether or not we'd... Croatia created they live well in power ok, and we have Croatia. Some rebelled against Croatia, and that didn't help either. It's like you've been in amnesia for 25 years. Well, we don't live in Kazakhstan or Ireland, this is Croatia. This is Croatia and nothing else. Where do you live? How can you not understand that you live in Croatia. We have Mr. Pupović Croatia. I'm sorry if you don't want it, I'm sorry if you never wanted it, I'm sorry if you don't feel good about it, I'm sorry if the system of values in it is a government and the equality of all national minorities, etc. If it doesn't suit you, I'm sorry if your day is worse, your night short and restless about it. But that's a fact and that's one way to figure it out. But I am sorry, I am now sorry that you think that Croatia is unfair in the European Union. Croatia is an equal member of the European Union. The issue of Croatian politics, Croatian political elites, how they will achieve that position and equality in the EU and nothing more. Today's government is failing to achieve a minimum foreign policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97688	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Time's up. Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97689	Dear colleague Marasovic, I have heard on many sides that you were an excellent director and excellent doctor at the hospital. And as far as I'm concerned, that's enough for me to respect you. And all I hear sometimes in the House is a reason or a smile, because many who before you have taken that kind of speech were much more dangerous and much less likable, and you are to me as I have told you in expressing a likable man with your actions. Now let's cut to the chase. Of course we have Croatia. But what do we have in this Croatia? What do we have from her? What do her citizens get from her? Of course we are a formal equal member of the Union, but how is this equality achieved? As our equality with some countries in the European Union seems, I would like to hear it. You reach for historical topics very often. Well, we've been in the alliances of states the most diverse during our history. We haven't been since yesterday, and we have experience, which means being in alliances. Well, isn't it time we started to solve the illusion of being even and being the richest and seeing where we are? And if someone says so, let's go see where we are, is that less for Croatia? Is he less attached to his country? Or maybe it's the one who doesn't want to see it, who says don't look at it because everything is best, because you who invite it are the enemies of Croatia. Isn't that the kind of thing that leads the country into great, great danger?
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97690	Thank you. Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97691	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Pupovac, we will continue this equality. In fact, that apparently small ones may not be equal to large ones, but that is not the case. So, I think that Croatia in the European Union will be equal to how much it knows and how much it wants to be alone. Of course, the economics are getting weaker will be and the less equal there is no dilemma. But let's stop blaming others once and for all. I don't know what, in what year the Germans might be our fault because we're not capable and equal. So there are a lot of small countries in the EU even smaller than we are who are doing great, have developed economies and have no social problems that we have today. You'll still agree to this in the last three years how responsible it is for managing this government and blaming this government. Guilty or responsible, how dear. As for the EU, therefore, I agree that the EU is facing serious problems. I think demographics is one of the bigger problems. It is certain that 100 million inhabitants over the past 10 years who have come to the old EU from transition and post-transition countries must have disrupted some balance. The balance had never existed in the EU before in the old between the north and the south. But then, another time for the EU, I'm sure there isn't. It is also certain that global competition, above all, is economic. But not just economic. I personally think that the economy is always a consequence and it's not by itself a cause. So now we're not leaving, we don't have time for a debate from China and everything that's going on, including the United States. So, what we have not heard today from the prime minister in this report, which is mentioned in this document, which is a transatlantic partnership by the end of 2015. What effect will this have on Croatia? I think it would be reasonable to hear and read in the end line in one report. And just a closing sentence. I disagree with you that the EU is to blame for the problems in Greece. Problems in today's Greece are solely blamed by those who have managed the Greek state for years and decades.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97692	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97693	You esteemed fellow Milosevic say we are responsible for how we are. I agree with you. The only difference is that I'd like to be even more responsible and tell those we recognize as the reason we've reduced our responsibility for our condition, to tell them listen to the gentlemen's responsibility about it. We want to assume our share of responsibility. And that's why it certainly takes a different policy. A much more pragmatic policy in Croatia, much more pragmatic. More serious political co-operation between the parties in Croatia than we have and, unfortunately, we seem to have. And as for the responsibilities of countries such as Greece, such as Italy, such as Spain, such as Portugal, such as France, which is that we return to the period before the First World War after the degree of underdevelopment, lagging behind, inequalities among citizens and among peoples, so I am not sure that it is the responsibility of the Greeks or that it is the responsibility of Croats or Portuguese. It could be policy responsibility, and today it's up to us to question what policies they are. If it's us, we're on our own, and we sure as hell are. First, we are because we are not asking that question, but we are dealing with it. And the point of this debate that I've contributed to is just to ask that question. So I agree, it's our responsibility, but the difference is I think we should be in taking that responsibility even more resolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97694	Thank you very much. Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97695	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think you've brought your argument back to the right place in one large part. So these are topics that we should discuss, more and more frequently, on the stability of the state, on the judiciary, on the stability of the judiciary, on uniform judicial practice, but also on respect for human rights and all those foundations of the EU, by de Gasperi and others who have founded the EU. And I agree with all those who believe that EU member states having problems did not stem from the fact that they are EU members but are internal problems that they were unable to solve. Because as you can get into the EU, you can certainly get out of it, and we can see that no one has come out so far. What I find particularly important in your presentation is the positioning of the Republic of Croatia. We are a relatively new member but as if everyone and in politics, and even beyond, are not aware of it until the end. So, who? Who are we going to share our concerns with? With whom can we promote and reach our goals together? Let's say about energy independence, it's extremely important for every country. I remember the time while we were still negotiating, it seems to me in 2010 and we were invited to a meeting in Budapest as a negotiating country, so in the Visegrad Group as a country that will become a member tomorrow but we were invited to this debate on energy independence, so the question is whether this group with which we can continue to share concerns.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97696	Thank you very much. Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97697	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues Kosor, yes, the issue of energy independence, but we do not necessarily have to call it energy independence, but can we talk about energy sustainability, so whatever it is, whether dependent or independent. And we don't have it. And this fact that we have a constant delay in reaching a solution to the energy sustainability of the Republic of Croatia as assumptions for its industrial and overall economic development is a problem for us. Accepting one solution that then eventually becomes no solution, and accepting another solution that we do not know will be the solution. That's a serious problem for us. Not just for energy security. This is a serious problem for economic assumptions of reconstruction in Croatia. And in the end, I'd say something if I didn't just call our HDZ colleagues on these issues, which is understandable, they know because they consider themselves the most important party when it comes to the state. But when Europe is respected colleagues and colleagues, why in Europe socialist Europe, Spinelli's Europe has no more room than it should have? Why are these political values, why has this political dream of Europe been suppressed and why is only Schumann's concept of Europe dominated, why have those who have seen Europe as a Europe of peace and Europe of equality today have no space in Europe's political life? That's a question for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97698	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97699	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. This is the second report we are discussing, so the second year since we joined the EU and discussions show that more and more European topics are needed and more often open at all levels in the Croatian Parliament, are we talking about committees, are we talking about plenary sessions? We've heard enough today. We've heard false, semi-information, good information, but above all, I'm also saying that there's a desire to discuss things more and better. I also view this report as twofold, as a continuation of the communication campaign because we must communicate Europe to the citizens. Because when Croatia joined the EU, it did not end a process in which, when we celebrated on the 1st of July, in 2nd, we did this, cleaned the dust with our hands, and we said this is it. Now we politicians have introduced Croatia into membership and now let all segments of society in Croatia continue to manage because we are a member of the EU. European policy has become an internal policy. Our foreign policy that we are coordinating with the EU is something quite third now. And we need to know that what is happening at Brussels level and what is being negotiated at Brussels level has a equally significant impact on Croatia's life. For God's sake, we have also handed over part of our national sovereignty to the Union itself and its institutions. But as Brussels is the second capital of Croatia, I say conditionally, so is Zagreb and Croatia part of the EU. They don't decide about us, we decide with them about all of us in the end by making all policies. The other side of this hearing is that it is clear what the role of the European Council is. In accordance with the Lisbon Agreement, the Croatian Parliament is discussing these documents with the EU's own law at the end of the day, (a) obtaining direct documents from the EU legislator, which is the European Commission, (b) we are discussing these documents, and by discussing EU documents with the government and the government's views we are taking part indirectly in the work of the EU Council, which is basically a key actor for us as a national parliament in the adoption of EU policies and EU legislation. The European Council gives direction. And as the European Commission has made a new investment plan called the popular Juncker plan, as the European Council has said well we are going with it, leaving it hanging in the air as it will look for national concessions, the European Commission has made its act, the act will enter the Assembly and this act will be discussed on board. I invite you all to actively discuss in your committees and an act establishing a famous Fund for Strategic Investments. And we're going to hear tomorrow in a second capacity a representative of the ECOFIN Ministry who was yesterday to tell us basically what stage this Juncker program is now in. So this way Parliament closes the whole cycle. As far as the European Council is concerned, I must say here, given that we are the only Parliament of the Member State that has entered membership after the entry of the Lisbon Agreement, we are also the only one who has this model not only but the only one of the very small number of parliaments perhaps 4, 5, which, for the European Council, we have all the information that we are discussing today. The European Council, draft draft agenda, the draft agenda, the draft agenda, the draft conclusions, the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia before the European Council, as a total of 5 parliaments in the EU do so before the European Council, the conclusions of the European Council and the Government's report on the European Council itself. So as far as this is concerned, this Parliament has all the information that is needed to see what is being negotiated and how in the European Council. A few themes to be answered have been launched here. Yes, we have also opened the issue of the banking union, and I think the banking union should let it go its own way because it is one of the instruments that needs to be stopped from happening in 2008. And if you take a little closer look at the mechanisms and funds that are set up bell out to taxpayers' money replaces bell and a different option in which banks are basically held accountable. And we need some kind of mechanism to stop what happened once. As far as Greece is concerned, I'll just get to know you one thing. There's been a lot of talk about Greece. When you're talking about neoliberalism, think about it then, I say I won't comment on the excessive state think about the second option, the second term, and that might be quasi-socialism, when we talk about it because I think the fairy tale is when someone else gives you credits, and then you throw them with a shovel at 13, 14, 15, and not to say how irresponsiblely it worked and ran. So that should be considered. Youth employment topics, very good subject i.e. youth unemployment is indeed expected to change greatly this year with a guarantee for young people, with first employment, tax exemptions in the case of first-time employment, further education, and finally let's be there for clean, mobility of young people. When we talk about a powerful exodus of young people, you realize that freedom of movement is a fundamental freedom of the EU and that is why many wanted EU membership, for the sake of freedom of movement in terms of education or employment. And a bunch of young Germans leaving Germany is just the key thing to doing as a state is making one network system that keeps in touch with everyone who's gone and looking at how they can continue to work with them in life. I also want to say here that Professor Pupovac was right, this is a different or different Europe. Yeah, this is a different Europe. 1945. Europe looked a little different and the first euro integrations started as a peace process and that is true, as a pension process. And it has come a long way from Europe from the Coal and Steel Community to where we are today and what we are now discussing. But also somewhere along the way, this pension process has turned into a political-economic union, and then this crisis is the last thing I think is personal, and it has made it clear that it has further turned into an economic-political union to replace the place of concept and where often when it comes to the competitiveness of Europe, the state looks at each other as competitors and often the euro and the exclusive competitiveness of the Member State has come first and in many ways it has trampled some values within the EU. And that's what we see today. At the end of the Europe with which we began to negotiate in 2004, the third to the fourth is not the same as the one we entered into and, unfortunately, the crisis has contributed significantly to that. Now about the subject. Before covering these few topics discussed by the European Council, it is necessary to repeat it again for public purposes, Croatia is an EU member. I'm going to use an expression here under quotes that's in a lot of things and "the Federation." We are not an island and we cannot be bothered by what is happening in other Member States or in Brussels. We must also learn and understand the importance of this integration, and we must also understand the importance of the EU's strategic approach, because we have entered into membership and we have made a commitment to achieve the objectives of the European strategy, such as Europe 20-20, and whose themes are then being discussed here in the European Council itself. And these topics in 2014 when you look at you have from Ukraine which has directly tested what has happened to Europe in the last 70 years and how much Europe has forgotten that it has been created as a pension process, through the European Semester which, I think you should not be told at the very least the instrument of coordination of fiscal and macroeconomic policies which see whether the Member States achieve the objectives of the strategy that we have agreed to achieve in the final and also co-ordinate between Member States and we get some recommendations on how to do so. And these recommendations show this fundamental problem in Croatia. When I said that you should watch, when the European Commission told us that you should look back a few decades, I'll tell you how many, 40 years you should look back. And it should be made clear, some older than you, than me above all the older ones who may have followed the former system better. You know very well that in the '80s it was already living on IMF loans and it just continued. And the European Commission today, when it talks about Croatia, continues to tell the same story, in countries that are too used to living too much and that someone else has financed it where education is not related to the labour market, does not give the necessary staff, where the tax base is quite narrow and where most people live, i.e. the budget lives on VAT and income tax. So our problem is much longer and much older. What is now the task of us, first and foremost of all the authorities and ruling parties, is crucial that this system, perhaps even the mental circuit, should finally begin to change. And that is what you see on the European Council, for you who follow and the recommendations of the European Council that then go towards the European Commission. The next topic of the Energy Union or climate policy has already changed Europe's 20-20 targets even to the harm of Croatia in many ways. And we'll have big problems achieving those percentages. This Parliament has and made a decision on the violation of the principle of subsidiarity in the circular economy because the European Commission has violated its commitment to Croatia in its accession contract with its proposal. And that is the European Union. The Energy Union can make Croatia cheaper energy if it moves and lives on the basis of solidarity. Because the problem in Europe is that one price is agreed, the other the third, the third. There's a little change here, some changes at least. And we will probably see that by summer what the European Commission will propose. These are the topics to be discussed in the Assembly, these are topics we need to discuss. And basically we're talking. The problem is that we also have a media output of European topics very weak in Croatia, very weak and often we lose 5.6 days on one topic and some important ones may go completely unnoticed. JunCker Investment Plan and TTIP, two topics to be discussed in 2014 On the one hand, a comprehensive trade agreement that will likely create colleagues and colleagues the richest single market in the world, watching the power of pay. 350 million US citizens, 500 million Europeans, and there is still an open possibility that Turkey might enter the contract. It's a topic to discuss, and we in the House have discussed it four times on committees. And now we will discuss the 8th round of TTIP negotiations on the Committee on European Affairs, and I call on all interested parties to join the media, because this contract will significantly affect citizens' lives and we still need to see how and make the first projections how. The fact is that the negotiations are even after the 8th round of negotiations still relatively initially in many ways. As far as I'm concerned, what I'm assessing in 2015, what we're going to need as a Parliament to be concerned about in 2015, is the fact that the commission is different. This is the political European Commission, which has made a major turn-off above all, and in which there are high expectations from citizens that the European Union will make a key contribution to major economic, social challenges and that everything else will be addressed by the Member States. And I expect that Juncker will just leave a lot to the Member States and that there will be this change in Europe that needs all the rest of the Member States. When you look at how Juncker's programme is going and these new rules on stabilisation and development, or growth, show that Croatia will be able to combine funds, combining Juncker's investment plan and probably new rules by which investing in macroeconomic reforms will not be part of the deficits will be able to significantly profit. I also invite you all to follow and discuss other points that will come. 2015 is the year of digital Europe, which is basically for you colleagues and colleagues, a single market for services worth 250 billion euros by 2020 and millions of jobs. We have an energy union coming up, a new immigration union, i.e. This policy, almost certainly, comes to us and some kind of financial union under quotes because Europe is also asking the question, the European Commission why the cheaper and more expensive European entrepreneurs are in debt somewhere. And these topics will be discussed both in the Croatian Parliament and in the Committee. I invite you all to join us. I also thank you once again for the report, and I believe that these discussions in which we are really going to put the topics, European topics concerning Croatia's citizens, first place. I don't think most Croatian citizens know what the new... politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She needs to be communicated. It's our responsibility. The problem is that here, really, as the professor said well, we're hearing too much about looking for South-Communists or I don't know what kind of devils are red, like this or like that instead of really talking and communicating with the right subjects. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97700	Now, before we break, we'll hear the replicas. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97701	Dear colleague Mondekar, I answered the line after your sentence that, I think the banking union needs us and everything you said later and I signed up you confirmed. That's it. I think, you think so and so is the Committee on European Affairs when this topic was included and experts from that area except for the representatives. We also need an energy union. Although we still don't know what it means for Croatia, but we need it. You said that TTIP is also an important TTIP Trans-Atlantic Partnership Agreement on Europe and the US's trade and investment. You know what some call it, that agreement? Legislative. The fact that multinational companies will manage both the European Union and the state and nothing else. That this agreement is the only one in this capacity that will formally win power over the Member States of the European Union. And you mentioned that Europe in Ukraine didn't learn or forget something. Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova, the European Union appears only as an extended hand of American interest... and nothing else. But what has Croatia done about Ukraine and is happening in Ukraine? We have our own foreign policy on the subject of Ukraine either we follow the European policy or we can talk about it at all. After all, is your board the same thing you discussed? If it is a mistake of the European Union, it is a mistake of Croatia, and we are going to continue to make these mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97702	Replication response, Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97703	Dear colleague Lesar, of course you as president of one political option have the right to a political assessment on behalf of your party, but then let me just explain a few things to you. So speaking of the energy union that we are awaiting a legislative act to see, Croatia can profit from it and in the acquisition of energy sources and, of course, energy routes and LNG terminals. The main idea of the Energy Union is that through a solidarity system within the European Union, the supply of energy is accessible. It's a basic idea, but like I said, we're waiting to see a legitimate act. He has to pass the Parliament. The banking union, so I can't make a decision for the banking union, for God's sake, so I guess we'll make a decision like Parliament. The idea that I agree with when I said that we need to be restrained by those who caused the 2008 crisis and that the taxpayers' money cannot then be pulled out of the gable by those who, by their irresponsible behaviour in the banking sector, caused the crisis basically and one part of the banking union is that. It's one part, to introduce order in such a way of conduct. I mean it's in a document for God's sake, in documents. This is what the European Union proposes. And third thing, TTIP. There are some things we can agree on. I believe that negotiations are quite non-transparent and I think that some things are still open to discussion and of some things the European Union must not give up. We must not discuss the GMO story at all, we have nothing to say about data exchange and security that the European Commission has firmly taken that position, but then again, we cannot succumb to the trade interests of some who say ma smite you there Croatian products of geographical origin, let us reject that as soon as we start trading. It is, for example, the position of a great European country, the largest European state, so we are against it and we do not give it and it will not be so. We still have to wait because this year's negotiations are only gonna get serious to see what's in there. And I agree, we regulate those who are better and better quality must be regulatory within the TTIP. I'm convinced it's a European story, not a multinational one.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97704	Time. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97705	Dear colleague Mondekar, I feel the respect for your knowledge of the problem we are talking about today, but I disagree with some of your settings of claims for purely ideological reasons. You were talking here as a pure neoliberal about neoliberalism, about capitalism, about the essence of the problem between Greece and other countries, Spain, and you've basically called all figuratively throwing shovels at 13, 14, pay or pension. The problem is far deeper. The problem is far deeper. If only it were true that it was the fault of those countries, then I'd be in favor of letting them play by themselves and not asking anyone for help. And you mentioned the solidarity system. Europe was created for that very reason. Europe should be united, the citizens of Europe should be united. You're talking about unifying banks today, uniting around the coin. It all comes down to a neoliberal rhetoric. You as a Social Democrats, that's my opinion and my assessment that doesn't need to hurt you, I don't think we should agree on that and that you shouldn't view Europe as a defense of the interest of large capital. And all that comes down, it all comes down to the European Union, Ukraine, what happened, I've been in Ukraine a few times. Ukraine was seduced, abandoned. Europe has terrible bloody hands, America more than it has Europe, and you've withdrawn. Talk to the Ukrainians, you'll see what they think and how sad they really are that they've fallen for stories from Europe and, in fact, to encourage a revolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97706	Thank you. Time. Daniel Mondekar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97707	Thank you. First of all, I thank you for your first compliment. And as for ideological differences, look, when I talk about the banking union, I don't talk like a neoliberal, but some people have called me an anarchocapitalist, whatever that means. I'm talking about an organization that should prevent citizens from repeating what the banks did eight years ago. When we talk about an energy union based on solidarity, so I'm not talking about me being great, so I'm talking about the price of gas being lower and having that gas, and sometimes someone closes a tentacle in the east to keep everyone out of gas. So the point is that some of the measures that are being taken, they sound very neoliberal, very multinational, etc., like this idea of fiscal i.e. Pardon the Union for borrowing, but the idea which the European Commission says is very simple. Why would someone have a 5% loan in Zagreb, and 2% in Ljubljana, let's see it gets even. Well, it makes sense. On the other hand, I have a concrete example where I have my own attitude and I fight for it, the Junker program famous. Everyone praises him, but he has a small minus perhaps one, he is that he can change, fundamentally change the application of the European Union funds. He could completely change the way in which grants actually become guarantees, and everything else goes into soft loan soft deposits. That's what the Spanish did yesterday. 700m euros for entrepreneurship, the amount of Croatia has put into guarantees, which is what the commercial banks have given 3 billion euros very decent with a low interest rate of credit. But it can potentially kill a system of grand schemes and potentially damage us who as a country are friends of cohesion and we need it for development and cohesion. So if I'm neoliberal about it, then I'm neoliberal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97708	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97709	Thank you very much. My colleague Mondekar, frankly speaking with most of your debates, can agree, and what I reported for the replica is the subject of a conversation in the Assembly. And perhaps today the Prime Minister has missed a unique opportunity in his report to in principle encourage parliamentary representatives to discuss what you have partly touched first of all, what the EU is offering to Croatia, where Croatia can benefit and where Croatia can simply be damaged. And if the Prime Minister had spoken in such a way, if he hadn't been back in the past, the debate would have been different. Because it is definitely that most people view the EU as one great unknown. And everything that's offered, so here's Junker's plan to interpret him as who he fits, as to who else, because that's what I'm saying to... Which political ball so will ball her instead of all going to get as far as we can. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's also an energy union. Look at me, LNG terminal in Krk we want to portray as the first-class political move of a political nomenclature. However, about LNG in Krk you know the story for ten years. However, now it is simply politically mature to do something about it, and if the opening part of the debate had been such, perhaps the debate in the Assembly would have gone in a completely different direction. And otherwise, I think that because of all the traumas that Croatia has experienced over the past years, it is called interest on the spending side of our budget and we should think and talk about what is being offered tomorrow. Because you're right. Can't someone who pays 5, 6, 7 or 10% be competitive to someone who pays 0.5%. And that's the whole truth and all the economic legality and we can talk whatever we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97710	Replication response, Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97711	So to connect to how you started, I agree with the great majority of what you said, except for the little things for the LNG terminal, I've at least heard in the papers for the first time since the '80s mention, the '80s LNG terminal. Look, I agree that the key European topics must take full debate in this House, they must take over the debate. They are on our committees. The Committee on Europeans will have at least 10 thematic sessions on individual policies and their impact on Croatia and the President of the Parliament is extremely willing to end much of the European topics at the plenary session, which I agree with. But it takes effort from everyone. I agree with you, but it's also the same time that we really stop talking about communists, that time, Perkovics, etc. I'll only give that one example. For days we discussed in the media and on the Croatian declaration about Seselj, about a man who is not worth mentioning, psychotics with his crazy thoughts we have debated for how many days. It was one day enough to say no, solve that problem, that's unacceptable, and then turn to, say, the topics that were in Brussels those days. These days, a GMO story was brought to Brussels, and it is very much about us who are members of the EU. So, I think it's time, and I'm afraid in the pre-election year, we'll find opportunities for this kind of debate, so maybe for some better times, but thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97712	And Marina Lovric Merzel replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97713	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Mondekar, I absolutely agree and support, as a rule, everything you've said. But you also said that on several levels, and I agree entirely with the fact that we have to communicate with citizens daily with Europe, which is what the EU brings us, which brings to the economy, craftsman, farmer, etc. which means every man. But I also believe that we must, and I think you agree because we have worked very hard for years and you have helped us to design and prepare certain projects in Sisak-Moslavina County, and as far as I know in other counties throughout Croatia and projects that have been implemented and prepared. We need to teach a lot more people who work in cities on specific projects in development agencies, and we know and we were witnesses two or three years ago when there was a meeting at the Ministry of Honorary Vice-President of the Government that the development agencies in the Republic of Croatia were exactly that, I'm talking about the county that pulled most of the funds from those possible pre-accession funds and, of course, what they're preparing for now, and these are major projects that some have run for, some are not. But I believe that municipalities and cities along with county development agencies especially this Investment Fund, which weighs 150 million kunas where we still don't know the criteria that will be in a month. Now they're in preparation and then we're going to suggest that we help build infrastructure, social programs, businessmen, entrepreneurs, all those who need to, even though we know that we now have smaller resources in municipalities, cities and counties, it doesn't matter, it's spilled into citizens' pockets. But at this point, they can't be used to fund local and regional self-government units in these projects. I hope, I'm sure you'll initiate, and we all here together to make this one tighter connection between the ministry, those people who are working on projects for the EU, County, municipalities and cities and open in the Assembly of Discussions and on the criteria for which it will be able to achieve support from the Investment Fund. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97714	Thank you very much. Today we're going to do more points 2, 3, 4 and 5 and we're going to continue at 15.00 hours. First in line will be Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97715	My colleagues and colleagues will continue to work. It is up to Jadranka Kosor and HGS, a respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97716	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. So it's been said a lot in the morning debate, so I'm going to try really to cut back on a few basic facts that I find important in this report. First of all, from what he said in the opening letter, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia said that citizens do not know enough. And that's a fact. Therefore, they do not know enough about how the EU itself, the European Council, which are in fact the European Council, the European Commission or the European Commission. And if that's the case, I agree that that's the case, then this report should be encouraged or some conclusions should be encouraged to change that. If this is so that the citizens of one EU member state do not know enough about what we actually wanted when we decided to become members of that association, then it is devastating for politics as a whole. I'm going back to the report. So, I think this kind of report can encourage our discussion on how to improve this work, how indeed also in the Croatian Parliament to raise awareness of the fact that we are a member of the EU and that the Croatian Parliament can put on the agenda not only topics that come to us from the government when it comes to EU membership, but that we can articulate these topics ourselves. And I remind again of the proposal that I have been here before, several months ago, and to the President of the Parliament, on the recommendations of the Council or of the European Commission to solve many problems in Croatia primarily economically, from public debt to deficits through the pension and health system, to put as a topic at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, to invite the Government to prepare for this debate and to try to reach a minimum agreement on some solutions. One of those solutions that, in these recommendations, Mr. Vice President and the Commission, i.e. through debates in the council, obviously actually suggests, which is, say, retirement at the age of 67. Let's go back to the very structure of this report. So I think in the future, and I'm saying it quite in good faith, that it should be a little bit different. So we in the report can see in short lines what the views of the president of the council, the president of the commission, other senior officials, are but we find it difficult to understand what the views of the Republic of Croatia are. So, the government or the Prime Minister representing us there represents a country as a whole, and then we're not just talking about it, we're talking about the state. What were these views in concrete proposals on concrete topics and of course the topics, if any, which Croatia sought to promote or in particular encourage and in particular be particularly active in them. And not to say that it would be good to go quite proactively and impose some topics, and there are countless such topics that Croatia has something to say, in which it can be a leader in some way. So, the Prime Minister said here believe me that I represented our interests, that I spoke in favour of Croatian views. There are those who believe, and there are those who do not believe. However, it would be good to read that report. So, we finished negotiations in 2011 and still that feeling that we are a full member of the EU, that we can encourage some processes, that we can stop some processes as if it were not fully aware in politics itself. I therefore propose that after all the next meetings of the European Council, the Prime Minister who represents us try to do everything to make the topics, the atmosphere and the conclusions that were on the agenda available to the general public as possible. Which means the government should find a model. One of the models is that after each return from the meeting of the Council, the Prime Minister organises a press conference and that details about the topics discussed at the council meetings are described here sometimes at lunch sometime late at night to inform the Croatian public in detail. So these topics that are important for Croatia, we are now inseparably related to this policy that is being implemented in the EU, or in the Council or in the Commission or in the European Parliament, become more accessible and we would somehow be more reciprocated to what is definitely our daily life because we have decided to do so. So, I propose future and different government work because we are also interested in whether, for example, the Prime Minister talked about these institutional changes that were on the agenda, about climate change as well as about the views of the Government and Croatia as a whole and as far as the point of view of Ukraine, enlargement, but also about ebola. Not to mention all those issues that are related to the fight against terrorism. So one of the topics that was particularly important and significant at the council meeting was to support the growth of investment in renewed commitment to implementing structural reforms, to improve the investment environment. Here are all these three important points I would like to know what the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia were, in what way, how and what was spoken at the meetings of the European Councils. So let's say that we are restoring commitment to structural reforms. It's a topic that we in the Assembly every day say countless sentences, countless times, and I actually think that few people without any insult know what it really should be or improve the investment environment. So these were topics also at European Council meetings, we did not get full information through this report on how the Republic of Croatia presented itself and how the Republic of Croatia as a member of the EU intends to contribute to, say, co-ordinated support for investments or renewed commitment to implementing structural reforms, which was one of the points discussed. The use of funds, therefore, is the same subject that has been raised in the debate over this report, although only the report does not speak about it, is particularly an important topic. And since we have had the last truly sincere and real political consensus about joining the EU, and then any chance of any other possible consensus being extinguished, I suggest that precisely about the use of funds and certainly for the sake of the Croatian public and for the support of the Croatian public membership in the EU to try to open up a debate in the Croatian Parliament and to form the use of funds regardless of what government it was, today one, the other, the day, the day after the third, some kind of consensus. Because even today when a citizen is monitoring the transfer of the session and listening to the figures that speak about the use, then one speaks one thing, the other says the other, the third says the third, and the citizen seems to have a right. But if we all tried to sit at the table and agreed on how and how to use, systematically and very effectively, what has opened up for us in the EU, maybe we would take a step forward and maybe take that step a little faster. Because we spoke nicely before the end of the negotiations when we join the EU for each euro invested, we will be able to use or receive 3 euros. And where are we now? It turns out that many say what I think is not harmless that this EU membership costs us more than it benefits us. This would be devastating for politics, I repeat, which was unique from both the left and the right and the middle and the top and the bottom on that we want to become a member of the EU. I have already talked about the fact that I believe that these recommendations should also be discussed by the Croatian Government on the recommendations of the EU or the European Council and the Commission here, but also on the important area of freedom, security and justice. Let's say for a little while who, I tried to follow all the debates and talked about one of the Council meetings, or one of the points where there were talks about strengthening the wording of justice in the EU frameworks on the trend expressed at Council meetings, strengthening the rights of victims, as well as the rights of suspects and accused. So the topic is extremely important for the Croatian judiciary, so you should know what the government's views were. Whether this means an additional change in the law for both the criminal law and the CAP, but also some others, these are topics that concern us as well as the topic that seemed to me on the agenda in June, on the prevention of radicalisation and the prevention of terrorism, and then there was a terrible Charil Hebdo and, of course, in the heart of Europe in the country of one of the EU's oldest countries, thus the fight against terrorism obviously comes to the heart of the Council and the work of the European Commission. Finally, I would like to say that I believe that, in the Croatian Parliament, the committees, first of all, of the Committee on European Affairs, but also for foreign policy, are doing their job well, however, too closed, their good and dedicated work, and we heard from Mr Mondekar who said and informed us about what he was going through, how they were sent before the Council meetings and afterwards, it should become a more public matter. So much stronger and much stronger and much more thoroughly should also be informed about the Croatian public, as well as all MPs and MPs as a whole. Certainly this report should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97717	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed Joseph Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97718	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs Kosor, a lot has been said and repeated since this morning's debate, even at one point it went beyond the topic that is today's agenda point. The truth is that we're still learning about it, and this is a report that's different, and it's still going to be probably reports that will be better. And what concerns us more, we cannot look at the situation in Croatia. Much was expected from our entry into the EU, it was expected by citizens, you know it best given the way you had when you were Prime Minister, how much effort your government made to get to this goal. Now, when statistics are spoken and there are a number of funds that are really withdrawn from the European Union funds in Croatia, but it can be less understood if after 6 months or a year we get a report from the European Commission on the state of affairs in Croatia where reforms are said to be partially, limited and risky to implement such reforms. And now some positive that goes from Croatia to the institutions of the European Union then we get back the pucks that our reforms are not enough and that the future of our country is uncertain. Then this optimism that has spread about the importance of our role and membership in the European Union has a little bit fallen into the water. So I believe that the created consumption of our full membership in the Union will only be shown when we solve the economic situation and crisis in Croatia, then the citizens will only be able to understand the real advantages of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Today, problems with francs, over-indebtedness, unemployment, an ever-increasing crisis that is unfortunately not eroding in Croatia are all throwing the wrong picture at the positive role of Croatia in the European Union and on that mission that you and you, which this government too, will have both the Parliament and all the institutions of Croatia if we really enjoy and consume what we wanted when we went towards the European Union. That's the point of this story. So today it's hard to understand what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97719	The replica matches the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97720	Well, I agree with you when you talk about the journey we've been through. Namely, I believe and many, the hardest and worst time seemed to have passed at the time of the negotiations and when we signed the accession agreement. Because these negotiations were truly terrible because they were among other things burdened by the legacy of war and we had this chapter 23, and only we had to worry about judicial reform and convince the Commission that we were consistent. We avoided monitoring after entering. And of course with the issue of war crimes trial, working with the International Criminal Court. So no country before us had that. And when we're all so successful and finally done, I repeat without monitoring for the judiciary and remember some other countries have got that before us. Therefore, it was only necessary to continue to work daily for 24 hours. That's why it's not, here I have one document here, it's a comprehensive document related to, from the Commission, the reform and convergence programme, meaning last year. And it seems to me here, I would not agree that these are the packs of the European Commission or, or members of the European Union, but are their predictions, and these are their proposals. And if we were about one of those proposals that wasn't asked of us to slap us and humiliate us, but because we signed a contract, we agreed to some frameworks. Therefore, it seems to me that such documents should be discussed by the Croatian Parliament especially when the Government sends its opinions, i.e. the answer to documents that warn Croatia of certain issues about the deficit, about public debt. And it would be extremely important for us to talk about it in the Croatian Parliament and to say, I repeat, I still don't know which times we try to agree on one of these things. Every government and this government and the one that comes and the one behind it would be easier to call The agreement in the Croatian Parliament is lagging behind. [[Intruder: Time of colleague Kosor.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97721	For the pay phone, I now invite the respected Dragutin Lesar to present the views of the Croatian Labour Party Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97722	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. I read the report on the participation of the European Council, especially those topics which I was particularly interested in, together with the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which were established before these sessions were held. And now my first question, which only came to me when I looked at the report and these views were, was there one single proposal from the Republic of Croatia on those positions before the European Council which did not begin, Croatia agrees, and Croatia proposes it is well, but came to the session with some proposal on which the completion was carried out and was eventually accepted? That was neither a report nor an introductory explanation by the Prime Minister. It's in the context of the often repeated we'll sit at the same table and we'll decide. So that was our contribution to affecting important or even changing attitudes or suggestions that were prepared before the session itself. Secondly, are there any topics that should be discussed before the Government determines its position to open a debate in the Parliament? I'm delegating two topics, overtime. In Western Europe over the past half of the year, there has been also a professional and political debate on the excessive use of overtime and the consequences it brings. Another topic and colleague Kosor mentioned her retirement or work up to 67 years of age. Would it not be good for us to open a debate on such important social, economic, demographic issues and parliament before the Government takes its views, before the Committee on European Affairs reads it and returns as it agrees. So there are topics that should also be discussed outside the formal procedures that are prescribed. I reminded the prime minister of his promise made here in the Croatian Parliament as part of the unfortunate adventure of amending the law on the European arrest warrant that the Government will personally do everything to ensure that all members of the European Union are equal in terms of the framework decision and the criteria contained therein. It has been a year and more and we cannot get an answer whether Croatia has raised the issue or the European Council, because in the European Commission, in the European Parliament, anywhere, because it may have something to do with it. So I am not arguing but wondering with the fact that Croatia has a problem and European arrest warrants, without being executed by the members of the European Union. Especially Hungary when it comes to Mr Hernardy. Is Croatia equal to all members of the European Union and whether we are keeping quiet when we sit at the Brussels table, everyone, from the foreign minister to the prime minister and our euro representatives. The second topic, which unfortunately wasn't enough, was the Schengen. In fact, both own funds and European Croatia have invested a lot so far, investing to be prepared with 1.7. For the citizens of this country, that is something useful, directly. However, we are monitoring the report and information that Croatia is preparing a problem for the part of the Member States which some are not thrilled that Croatia is admitted to the Schengen and that we may have problems there. The government obviously does not need such a debate in the House either because nothing concrete has been said in this report or in the Prime Minister's statement. The March session focused on industrial competitiveness, and then agreed on the need to reform education systems, strengthen vocational education and promote labour mobility. Mr Vice-President, after that session in March last year, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed to Parliament gave in terms of strengthening vocational education, and we know what it is like in Croatia, and in particular the promotion of labour mobility, in a country where 15000 empty apartments are empty and no one wants to lower neither the price nor take into the rental system to encourage labour mobility, for example. The next topic is the Transatlantic Partnership in Trade and Investment Agreement between the European Union and the United States. Who dictates this non-transparent debate and the preparation of this agreement? Who's the one who decides what's going to be put in public, when and who? After all, who in Croatia will organise an expert debate on the subject or will be held only once a session of the Committee on European Affairs and Opinions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then after a few years we will ask ourselves as we now ask ourselves... some rules that create difficulties for Croatia. The European Fund for Strategic Investment, an important topic. The report states that the European Council has called on members to start contributing to the fund. What contribution is expected from Croatia to this fund in 2015? Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia have that information? And along the way, I use the opportunity to ask him if it is true that among the 150 projects you have put in Europe are several projects from the Croatian Railways, which they have given up in the meantime. So HZ pulled them out because they rated them useless, obsolete or unnecessary, I don't have the exact information. The following is mentioned in the Savings Directive, which should ensure an effective fight against tax evasion and fraud in the field of savings taxation. This is a very good topic because the European Commission has the biggest expert on the prevention of savings fraud because Mr Junker, while he was probably a prime minister, graduated on the subject that one member of the European Union, playing the rules, made it possible for tax evasion right through non-taxation of savings and illegal transactions. A lot has been discussed today as to whether she or Europe is responsible for a situation in one of the members. Greece specifically. And did we discuss it the following way, when a problem arises and for the mass of problems we have dealt with the European Union has prescribed medicines. Now it doesn't matter how these drugs happened, she had her own list of medications. Savings. Savings. Savings. And after 5 years of repeating the savings then the authors of the mantra said we were wrong because we did not take into account all possible repercussions and different states from member to member and should re-emerge to austerity measures, analyse the effects and consequences. The next drug was a deficit and was a state deficit of 3%. Interesting. The members of the European Union who imposed this rule before that had primarily developed their industry to the deficit of the state budget, well above 3% and now it is a rule for us poor, which other sources of funds for more serious investment in the public sector, there is no state investment. A medicine that was imposed because it was someone else's, not the patient, but the one who had the capital to blackmail you later. It's the same with public debt, 60% of GDP. These rules were created by accident in France for the purposes of the then president of the state. Later, this medicine was taken and imposed on everyone, without ever being questioned by the condition of the patient when these medicines were being treated. The banking union will be defended from the irresponsible behaviour of banks. Which one? Whose banks have irresponsible behavior caused a crisis? What sanctions were imposed on them? Or it's a dam for banks and weaker financial states that will make it weaker. The Energy Union aims to say cheaper energy. Perhaps, but I would be happier if on one topic and on another, so on the topic of the banking union and on the topic of the energy union, there was also a professional debate besides politics, but that politics was initiated, helped, initiated to hear energy experts, so that on the basis of that, when we speak politically, we took positions. But you can see that in these topics of professional debates in Croatia there is almost no and especially not through media that could benefit citizens from understanding some of the processes that are emerging in the EU. It's just that you come up with the claim that the banking union is a good thing and it's over. The Energy Union is a good thing and it's over. It's only when we get our heads in the first place that we wake up, when this therapy that we're prescribed is causing problems that we intervene, so we have to come up with a therapy for the savages of the Swiss franc and apply ourselves to partial damages. And how did this explosion of Frank happen, who caused it? You mean the state of the Swiss economy, the movement of offers, financials, goods, services? What? No, he was challenged by Russian rich people who only a few days came to Switzerland with a huge amount of money, caused rapid growth. The Swiss National Bank no longer wanted to defend the course. 20 and a few years ago, this was done by Petrov's dollar when suddenly the banks were full of money and shared with caps and paws loans and created debt slavery of a large number of states, and then Croatia slowed down. It is the same recipe you see the treatment of European finances designed by the largest EU-led minds, and with us we have to find and find our reasons. The LNG terminal in Krk is mentioned as one of the major strategic investments that has EU support. I have read the June or July session corridor north – south, the southern gas corridor has been established as a strategic direction of this. We're interested in giving us gas, we're offering a location. For our needs and our market, it's too small. Who are the customers of that gas? Who's the investor? These are topics that should be discussed, to see if LNG or TUP terminal is a project on Krk that will be funded as a European project. Croatian foreign policy. He writes sanctions imposed on Russia. And what have the sanctions changed in Russia's behaviour? The sanctions are meant to make someone against whom his behavior has been forced to change. Did Russia change its behaviour in Ukraine? Not by a millimeter, and we've been acting on that economic big market for months now so we haven't even had an ambassador there, and we don't know when we're going to have one. And I end up with the European Central Bank that I have already mentioned today and this decision to buy out government bonds. Interestingly, he resisted for years, so every idea on the subject was harshly rejected. It is now a medicine, but beware only that the European Central Bank is allowed to purchase the national bonds of the Member States. The national banks are still not allowed to. So, Croatia cannot, by amending the CNB Act, say that the CNB can buy from its foreign reserves 3 billion project bonds, so that the Krski bridge, for example, or Europe will pay well, we've heard that before. We're funding something else, let's say the highways don't have to be monetized. It's those drugs. when our rotten teeth are pulling out without anesthesia. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97723	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the honorary colleague of Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97724	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, you mentioned, you mentioned here in your debate as well as before the European arrest warrant, that is, in this context, of course, the whole problem that has been being dragged away for more than a year and a half, meaning since Croatia's entry into the EU, so it should be remembered that when we negotiated to join the EU, no one from the opposition, nor from the ruling coalition then mentioned the possibility of installing that restriction means 2002, etc. It appeared as a problem before I joined the EU and yes, I remember well because I endured and in fact the only amendment to that law that came from the government to avoid these problems. But that didn't happen. And I remember just as well as the Prime Minister said he would insist on it which is absolutely fine and which is as good as positioning the Republic of Croatia as an equal member. But nothing has happened since. And I would like to warn you that just in this report, so from last year, so a year after we became a member of the EU at a Council meeting on 26 and 27 June, one of the topics was the area of freedom, security and justice. And in the first sentence of this report, it reads: "The effective functioning of the European judicial area with respect to the different legal traditions of the EU Member States. So this was a very safe point under which the Croatian government could very well trouble the European arrest warrant, the position of Croatia and, of course, put it in the context of the European arrest warrant and the process against Mr Hernadi. Because by then, all the circumstances in that second case and trial were well known. So I'm curious if it might have been done without the report saying so. And that is why I am going back to my proposal that I made in the debate, so it would be good not only for us to get positions expressed by senior EU officials, commissions and councils but also representatives of the Croatian government. If then it was a subject in which it could be applied Then it's obviously been missed again for a long time. [[Intruding Stazić: colleagues Kosor, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97725	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97726	Yes, counterpart Kosor, while the prime minister was there, I also wanted to get a decided answer from him, not because it was no one's problem with the negotiations, but his promise to put the issue on the agenda for decision-making within the EU. 26th and 27th June 2014 really – Freedom, security and justice, but I also looked at the position of the Republic of Croatia before the meeting. In no word has this theme been opened before. Well, that's probably why it's not even in the report. But the prime minister owes us an answer, if not so far, when and where he will run the topic because Croatia deserves to have the same rules as other EU members. And he said you could do it. I trust Prime Minister Milanovic and wait for his promise to be fulfilled, nothing else. And I'll ask him every time I see him fill it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97727	Thank you. Another replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97728	With regard to the area of freedom of security and justice, you have also referred to what our data is, that is, how many other countries are cooperating according to our orders as far as I understand you. In this context, not only was it discussed on the Committee on European Affairs but also on several occasions, such data as we have the Ministry of Justice presented by the respected Mr Orsat Milenic, the minister of justice. And very interesting data is that Croatia when it was attacked by the opposition not to cooperate, that we were embarrassed, that Croatia was working over the average for a very short time, unlike Germany and some other countries that are much larger, much stronger. So the fact is, perhaps this is also the result of migration and the arrival of the population from the east to the west, that these countries are much more looking for a warrant than they are fulfilling orders. Well, I also agree that we should take care of that. We know today that Germany has rejected the man sought by the Croatian judiciary. In one case, they said he acquired German citizenship, and we know how he gained it, Germany never declared it. In one case, it has been said that the execution of such a punishment has become obsolete. But what about the other two criminal proceedings where our judicial authorities are also looking for him because the indictment is legal? As regards this international transatlantic trade agreement and the attempt to conclude it between the US and the EU, I agree with you, too, and you have mentioned it yourself and there will be a debate, it has already been and has already been opened on two occasions on the Committee on European Affairs. And no matter how much this contract makes it easier, it has its advantages safely in trade between America and the EU in any case I follow your thinking that it needs to be considered absolutely transparently, first of all here in Croatia, and a whole series of dangers that it carries. Not only in terms of GMO organisms, but also many other things. Well, here's the show yesterday, and on public television, where you can buy spare parts for the plane on eBay, and then you often crash like that. So, very cautiously, but in order for this caution to really have its justification, that means transparency in the process of adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97729	Replication response, dear Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97730	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Ingrid Antičević thank you for giving another example of Germany's non-delivery, which I didn't know about, thank you for that. But I'm worried about the next fact, we're in Croatia a lot of trouble, and we're dealing with a few criminal cases, and we've conducted court proceedings, I hope, and I'm sure with the evidence at the judiciary about corrupting actions. So, it looks for Croatia and has an international driver and another EU member refuses to do anything about it. Why is this not the subject of the talks, if we can't bilaterally go to Brussels, why, do you remember which noise was created towards Croatia when Croatia was to make extraditions? And now it's a pain in the ass, everybody's quiet. How is it that no one in Europe is in the best interest to take the subject off the agenda too? I remind you of the Daimler affair which they admitted when the German representatives of the company, even in front of the US court, admitted that they had been bribed in Croatia. One more day today, even knowing how much, one thing we don't know, who took the bribe. Germany and Croatia are equal EU members, and nothing. Germany is silent, but we are silent in Brussels. It pisses me off the most. And listen, I'm looking at the report, and there's no record of it in the report, so I guess you just think that's what they're discussing... I'd like them to open that topic at meetings.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97731	And the last replica of the esteemed Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97732	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Lesar, you mentioned HH projects. In time, with a lot of pumps under the reflectors accompanied by all possible media that exist in Croatia announced if I do not cheat 25 projects from the HZ area, it was announced that if I am not cheating on a female team of 13 members who are leading and all projects, that is the top of the elite, and then we now have the situation that this administration that was at that time, which was praised by both the prime minister and the Secretary of Resor after a few months has been removed, but most of these project leaders are also removed. These projects that are scheduled in the competition, or not all of them, but most of them, these projects are waiting for the competitions to end and then canceling the competitions and there is nothing of it, but with a lot of pomp, it is announced. You mentioned in your speech an energy union, one of the predecessors talked about liberalising the market when creating an energy union that would allow for a cheaper final price. One of the most likely examples in Europe is Bulgaria. When the only case of energy problems took most Bulgarians to the street where they sought to bring down the government, but not because market liberalisation brought them a price reduction rather than a drastic increase. And the position of our representatives in the EU, I have asked our minister on the Transport Committee, which was our position because in the note we have received that Slovenia's position is official, that it is the destruction of small states and small carriers, our position we have not received or we consider ourselves large or we have found a mechanism to protect ourselves, and perhaps it is in our interest to fail that our national carrier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97733	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97734	My colleague Novak, you said that a large number of projects when the competitions are called up, then they cancel out and start over. I know that these projects in Brussels can then be approved and accepted, and that in Croatia we have annulled the tender for their implementation and therefore, without any evil desire or anything really Mr. Vice-President of the Government, can we get an answer, and this has already been mentioned in the media that these projects you have submitted to Brussels are indeed within the HZ itself from the Agenda as unnecessary or unnecessarily invalid and are not ready to withdraw the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97735	A little explanation like this so it doesn't turn out that the Prime Minister doesn't want to answer your questions. I can't give him my word that this is the Prime Minister's report, not the government as a whole. Therefore, only the reporter of the report can speak, and... Mr. Deputy Prime Minister has reason to be in the assembly of what you're saying and to pass it on to the Prime Minister. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the HNS club, the distinguished vice president of Dom Milorad Batinic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97736	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Although Croatia is only about a year and a half of EU membership, there is somehow a conclusion that we may still be in the process of learning and getting along among the big players. But today, our Croatian voice in the EU, the European Council, is as valuable to the Council of Ministers of the EU as the vote of any other EU member. In my presentation, I will look back on only three topics, three areas that I think are equally important, and I also think that they are in the greatest focus of interest and that they are most interested in the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In my opinion, the political and security part of Croatia has strengthened its position, the position of a credible and relevant partner in international relations, in my opinion. This is particularly true for the countries of the region that recognise us as a country that contributes to the stability and security of the region through knowledge, experience. It is our obligation and our direct interest precisely because of the experience we have left behind and continue to support and encourage the processes of Euro-Atlantic integration in all the countries in the environment in our region. Similarly, we can make a strong contribution to security and stability, which is a key prerequisite for attracting investment and for economic growth that we need as well as for all other EU members. The issue of neighbouring BiH, which has long been the focus of the European public, is crucial to us in Croatia. This is not only because of the fact that the Croats are one of the three constituent peoples of BiH, which somehow makes us feel the need to engage more strongly and to help our experiences behind us on the EU's journey, but rather stable, secure BiH, BiH, which is an EU member and key to the security of the entire region. That's what we and our colleagues in the EU recognized. We remind you that BiH's status in European processes has not moved from place for years. Last spring, Croatia proposed a different approach tailored to BiH itself, a UK and Germany initiative that later became European, and the EU reached conclusions at the foreign affairs council's ministerial meeting that are becoming a new Union policy. It is our interest that all countries in the neighbourhood go this European way, because that means stabilising institutions, legislation, the whole country and ultimately the whole region. Supporting Bosnia and Herzegovina on its way to European membership is no longer just a Croatian policy but a European Union policy but thanks primarily to our initiative. When it comes to stability, we cannot mention Ukraine which has been dealt with by the European Council all last year, which in restrictive, which in less restrictive formats following the freezing measures, prohibiting the issuing of visas to persons responsible for holding illegal referendums, then sanctioning a comprehensive debate on the situation in Ukraine. The European Council has signed the Agreement on the accession of the European Union with Ukraine. Furthermore, I would like to highlight what was focused on all the several meetings of the European Council, the economy as a key topic of how economic growth, greater competitiveness, new jobs that were the main themes of the European Council throughout last year. All member states are struggling with the economic crisis and are trying to resist it, and the European Council, in the context of the debate on the European Semester 2014, has particularly pointed out the importance of strengthening policies that contribute to competitiveness, supporting job creation, strong fight against unemployment, especially youth unemployment. These are all the problems we face in our country and try to find solutions. We believe that a part of the problem of youth unemployment will be addressed through a guarantee for young people, a new innovative approach to solving this problem. The aim is to ensure that all young people from 30 years of age within four months of completion of schooling or loss of previous employment receive a quality and concrete offer whether they are registered to the Employment Office or not. This applies to an offer for work, practice, traineeship or for continuing education and must be tailored to individual needs and situations. And our Ministry of Labour and Pension System continues to present measures to encourage youth employment in 2015. It includes news related to active employment policy measures carried out under the mentioned Youth Guarantee, information on fiscal reliefs that employers can benefit from in the employment of young people, as well as information on professional training without establishing a working relationship for which we raised the compensation from 1600 to 2400 kuna. I know and I'm aware that it's not enough and that it can be better, but we're not the only ones who face such problems alone. And just because we are not alone in such a situation, but by finding a solution deals with 28 European Union countries, it gives us faith that we will succeed in a more rapid exit from the crisis by common forces. Recording high unemployment, labour supply which does not meet the needs of employers and which skills issues are to which answers can only be found in cooperation with an economy that is best suited to its current and future needs. So not only for us but also for Europe, education is imperative for the needs of the economy, which is the only logical assumption of a lasting solution to this problem. I must point out that this is a problem that we, at a local level, made aware of a few years ago, designed and directly applied how the labour market offers what it needs. I am convinced that the Croatian diplomatic consular network, which was placed in the service of the Croatian economy, will also contribute to the strengthening of Croatia's economy. Economic diplomacy implies a strong and permanent promotion of Croatian economic interests abroad, more efficient and simpler obtaining relevant information and faster realization of export jobs. Supporting Croatian exporters, protecting the interests of Croatian companies abroad and helping attract foreign investment, economic diplomacy will play one of the key roles in strengthening the Croatian economy. I must point out that almost every fourth initiative has brought about the business cooperation of our companies abroad. The developments in our economy are evident and the Croatian economy is recovering. Since 2009, industrial production has grown in 2014 so I believe that this growth will also be in one constant. Looking back on the Europe 2020 strategy, 2030 industrial competitiveness and climate and energy policy, the European Council stressed the need to complete the process of creating the internal energy market, continue to develop energy infrastructure and continue to work on market liberalisation. I must mention that Croatia is placed on the top of a series of economic, diplomatic activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Europe's energy map. In this way, we have become not only interesting but I also believe a key factor in Southeast Europe. In just a few years, Croatia has come from completely unrecognizable energy to say interesting countries on the map of Europe. The policies run are not short-term, but it is an energy policy not only for Croatia but also for Southeast Europe. With the implementation of projects such as LNG-terminal by enabling Europe's supply of cheaper gas, hydrocarbon research in the Adriatic is based on Croatia's energy independence especially for its economic development but also on the development of neighbouring countries. In this way, we will become the energy hub of this part of Europe, we will have a safer supply of energy, cheaper gas for citizens' industries in the region and a lower price for gas in Europe. All of this is in line with the recommendations of the European Council that required different practices to be reviewed and that at national levels it affects the reduction of energy prices. When we talk about benefits for the Croatian economy and citizens from the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, we must point out that the government has already decided that several global, European oil companies will explore several research fields in the South and Central Adriatic and according to some experiences, business experiences regarding the research phase should be invested around 4 billion. World practice suggests that in such projects about 60% of total investment remains a domestic economy. In my personal court, the drawn direction is good, continuous communication, consultation, respect for equal actors, and I would dare to show my partner in finding the best solutions for each Member State of the European Union individually, but also for the European Union as a whole they can and must deliver results. Positive movements in Croatia give me the right to believe that they will. Based on everything presented, the HNS Club will support the government president's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97737	I thank Vice President Batinić. I thank all the participants in the debate and the Deputy Prime Minister for following this debate. I'm closing this agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97738	We move to a decision on the Report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held in 2014. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposal of the Social Democratic Party's Social Democratic Party Club, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held in 2014. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 85 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 19 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97739	We move to the next one, that is - The final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on veterinary medicinal products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 778 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? No, there's no need. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, the respected Mladen Novak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97740	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy. No, I'm not a veterinarian by profession, but I have consulted people who are from this profession and I have to admit that every single one of those at least I've consulted, including the present lady who laughed from her heart, did not find anything to object to this law. However, in consultation with some other people, I have come up with some knowledge that is so little for me and I will not say, nothing can surprise me anymore, and that is to say that the veterinary medicinal product market unfortunately has even more holes than usual in us in some other areas. So, according to some statements, you can buy allegedly with enough feathers in Hungary and you can buy whatever you want that control has nothing and no level, and then it can be quite serious consequences produced by us. However, it seems that the arrangement of that part of the problem did not fall into anyone’s eye or was not simply of interest to solve the problem. But what I have actually come to the debate on this subject today is something else, but it is about this law. On 17 December 2014, it was held unless I was mistaken for the 200th cabinet session. At that cabinet session, the government made a decision to obtain vaccines to prevent the spread of bluetongue. It is approved by the Ministry of Agriculture for 2 million and 200 thousand doses of vaccines to prevent the spread of bluetongue. And now there's a further explanation for that decision. And since I don't know much about it then he asked around, so I asked people where the competition was announced. Here is the amount of nearly 14.5 million if I understand it well, then the VAT goes to it, which means that the number is quite large. Let's say it's about 2 million euros. And apparently, the tender for that wasn't exactly anywhere, so I went to ask myself if we had a manufacturer of that vaccine at all, so people explained to me that we don't have a manufacturer as such, but we have four authorized, supposedly 4 or so my associate knows about 4, that doesn't mean that it's even the final number, maybe there are more, authorized companies dealing with importing that vaccine. And there are some specifications for these vaccines, but it's not that only one company has the required vaccine, but the competition was nothing but a direct contract. I'm not saying it's something controversial, but I'd like to hear an explanation. Given the amount of how much I see it here, somewhere around 2 million euros or even more, it might be convenient for citizens to know, in fact, is otherwise whenever it comes to the pharmaceutical industry, I'm also skeptical of all kinds of flus, plagues, and I don't know what and I can't get the impression that every little bit of time we need it, we're dissipating the mass fear of any of these diseases. Well, now I believe here that blue language isn't exactly what I'm saying is irrelevant and harmless. I believe our people did their best to protect this rich stock fund of ours. But I'm suspicious of the whole procedure. I don't claim that there are criminal acts here, but I have the right to question all this together since if there's no competition normally to cause suspicion. I hope I get a chance to hear the answer. That's great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97741	Thank you. You're answering for a word? Okay. A respected Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Snježana Spain, appears for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97742	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Mss of Parliament MPs and gentlemen of Parliament. So, I would just like to emphasise that it is an animal disease and that it is an emergency procedure under the Public Procurement Act, that it is a measure not only implemented in the Republic of Croatia, but that it has been implemented in several EU member states as a bluetongue control programme. Some of the funds will also be co-financed by the European Commission in both the Republic of Croatia and the other members. I would just like to point out to the public that this measure has not been adopted, that vaccination has not been carried out in order for all the animals that are infected to be euthanised and further, in this case and in the areas where the disease has been detected to be prohibited from free movement and traffic of livestock. For this reason, two vaccinations are carried out, therefore the medicinal product has been obtained by emergency procedure. Since it is animal health and disease to avoid further spread, to prevent the spread of the disease for this very reason, and in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, which was conducted in exceptional situations related to the prevention of the spread of animal diseases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97743	We have two replicas reported for this explanation. First respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97744	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to replicate the deputy minister in terms of the vaccine itself, even in human form, and we know how it's been these years. We also know examples from Europe when the Polish Minister of Health is opposed to the use of vaccines against bird flu, claiming that this disease is not made up, but that it is, not to say, possibly imposed, etc. So she resigned as Minister of Health or Health of the Polish State. We also watch those entrances to those hens, though the former minister himself could not have been difficult to get into the henhouse, so we also watched the vaccination of individual ministers, the public vaccination in front of public television. We know how Norvatis and I went through, and we know how much money we spent on Norvatis' vaccines. Remember that when a million doses were taken, 60,000 were spent, and returned to Norvatis only 500, and 500 thousand doses failed in the Republic of Croatia. So it should be exactly as counterpart Novak says and be careful and think about why there is no competition, etc. So no one has claimed here that this is a crime, but in any case with a grain of salt it should be observed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97745	The reply corresponds to Deputy Minister, Honored Snježana Spain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97746	Thank you very much. Very short. So I will repeat in accordance with the Veterinary Law and the Public Procurement Act it was a threat and the possibility of rapid spread of bluetongue for animals. For this reason, an emergency procedure has been applied to prevent the infection at the very beginning and to free farmers from the costs incurred during vaccination, meaning from the supply of the product to the very application of the product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97747	Another replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97748	Thank you very much. You've explained nicely that it's a disease. That's what I didn't argue at all, that's what I agree with, and I think I agree, I have nothing to agree with. I don't understand it, but I respect the attitudes of the profession and that's it. However, I would like to know if you have contacted all suppliers, because this is not about producers as far as I understand it. We don't have a manufacturer, we only have suppliers that are from imports, and that's the only one he had or that only one had everything on the lager. What's the matter? I think what's going on with these other guys? I heard there's four of them. I don't know that brand at all. Is there any contact with these others since you say it was because of the urgency that went into direct contact? Has everyone been in touch with them? Did any of them complain? And what is the reason why these others failed to meet the conditions? Were they expensive? Didn't it satisfy the vaccine? Didn't they have enough? What's the reason? And I wonder if anyone's been complaining about the other three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97749	The replica matches Deputy Snowy's Spanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97750	Very short. Yes, more than one of them has been contacted. No, there were no complaints.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97751	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Đurdjica Sumrak will speak with respect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97752	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues now just what short, bluetongue is what kind of disease is that? It's a viral disease that in reality as we say attacks sheep, goats and survivors. It's transmitted by mosquitoes and ticks. It is not particularly dangerous for humans, but it is dangerous for animals, and then animals must either be vaccinated or what the deputy lady has said or, unless the animals are made, must be safely removed or taken for forced slaughter. At this time when the disease occurred, I think three places that it was, within a 100-mile radius, fairs and all animal traffic are banned. Well, now, maybe it's a good thing that he's done a little bit of an interesting discussion in this way, because it's very often thought about animal diseases in reality to sort of go through. However, it is rarely thought that animal health is also human health. But then that's also the health of the environment that is very important to us today. Just a few introductory sentences before I say a few words about this law. According to the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products, the veterinary medicinal product or the identification of the veterinary medicinal product is any substance or mixture of substances that has the property of treating or preventing animal disease or any substance or mixture of substances that can be used on animals for the purpose of performing, correcting or adapting physiological functions and that is pharmacological, immunological or metabolic activity or setting a medical diagnosis and a means of reducing the micro-organisms for use in the veterinary profession. Therefore, as a necessary assumption of health correct as well as animal health and protection, as well as regulations and controls, the use of veterinary medicinal products which, in addition to their medical activity, may, if not operated in accordance with the regulations, lead to contamination, or toxic components or residuals, be lagging behind in tissue muscles and thus endanger the final product and, as worst possible, to the health of the consumer. I would like to say a few more introductory sentences, so in 2000, the EU made a turning point in food quality policy, or security. This resulted in numerous crises in the 1990s due to the occurrence of disease due to the outbreak of zoonotics caused by food or food for animals. Zoos are all those diseases that pass from animal to human. We remember, for example, the dioxin found in animal food. And then we can say here, and then we can do olive oil, and then cow madness, and here we can say aflatoxin recently. These epidemics and events have affected the health and well-being of people with significant economic consequences, both for families and for the entire communities and for operators in the food and food business for animals and for the whole country. According to the World Health Organization definition, I would just like to talk about counterfeit drugs in this context. These are medicines that can be found on the market under the same or similar name, but their composition is not the same, does not match the right composition and that is what one great monster can say. In my last debate in 2013, when we were talking, I was talking about these very paved drugs, so now I wouldn't be spreading that debate. I think we all understand that. This law, which is before us, i.e. the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products with the final proposal of the HDZ law, will support it because there is no real reason why it should not be supported. Because this law also requires all new procedures that need to be regulated. This is the RUP, which is the repeated procedure or procedure for issuing a marketing authorisation for the placing on the market of the VMP previously approved by the process of mutual recognition and decentralisation of the procedure, which can be subsequently implemented for EU Member States which have not been involved in the first procedure or have withdrawn from the procedure and parallel imports and parallel transport. Furthermore, this law also proposes to prescribe the provision of transport of a small amount only in veterinary pharmacies rather than in specialised retail stores. In reality, EU Member States decide on their own and national provisions on whether to carry out a little of the VMP only in veterinary pharmacies or elsewhere. This law also amended the provision on the specific quality control of the VMP series and, according to it, a series of immunological vaccines produced in another country shall be placed on the market on the basis of a certificate of quality control carried out in the Member State prescribed by the person responsible for batch release or for which the competent authority of a Member State is concerned. What is equally important to me, so far the law has not prescribed a provision prohibiting the production of marketing, advertising and the application of the VMPs which are considered counterfeits. Even the Penal Code, we can look at it in the National Journal, doesn't prescribe a crime of counterfeiting the VMP. Penal Code provides for a criminal offence for the counterfeiting of medicinal products or medical products, and in Chapter 19, crimes against human health, but this crime does not include the VMP. From my opening presentation, and probably from all of you not to repeat myself, so animal health is equal to human health. They therefore prescribe infringements in the case of production, placing on the market, advertising and use of the counterfeiting VMP by this law. Well, on page 28 of the law, we can see what fines are and I'm glad those fines aren't very small, they're about 100 to 150 thousand kuna depending on the offense. I wouldn't go any further because I think this is in line with all the Council regulations and we're going to support this law, there's no reason not to really support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97753	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected representative Mario Moharic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97754	Thank you, Vice President. Respected deputy minister with associate, colleague and colleague. So here we have another law that is in line with European legislation, i.e. European Directives 2011/82 and 2004/28 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Veterinary and Medical Products Act was first published in the National Journal of 2008 and entered into force on 1 February 2009. It has so far had two amendments and additions, and the first amendments and additions were in 2013 which took effect in May 2013. By law implementing Commission Regulation No 1234 concerning the examination of the conditions for authorisation of the placing on the market of veterinary medicinal products, these have been other changes and has not been amended so far. This law contains those Regulations and the provisions of the law are in accordance with those Directives of 2001 and 2004. The law on veterinary medicinal products prescribes procedures for testing the placing on the market, production, labelling of traffic on large and small, pharmacovigilance, quality control, advertising, surveillance of veterinary medicinal products in order to ensure their quality and safety and as products for animal health, thereby protecting human health through the residence of veterinary medicinal products in food of animal origin as well as in animal feed. In these amendments and additions to the law, we have three things that are worth mentioning here, which we have heard from previous discussions, which is that this law is a proper new procedure that is necessary to regulate through the repeated procedure or procedure of granting authorisation for the placing on the market of veterinary medicinal products previously approved by mutual recognition or decentralised procedure which is subsequently carried out by EU Member States. Under two or other amendments that are important to note, which is that this law prescribes the transport of veterinary medicinal products to a little bit only through veterinary pharmacies, and not more so far as it has been prescribed through specialized retail stores where medicines in specialized shops can be sold there. With these changes, it won't be possible anymore. And it should be noted that these specialized shops are neither an establishment nor a ministry has prescribed veterinary medicinal products that would be issued in such a way or via a prescription. EU Member States shall decide on their own by national provisions whether the marketing of veterinary medicinal products will be carried out only in veterinary medicinal products or elsewhere. Well, this is also the example of the previous speaker where we heard that in Hungary we are selling such drugs without any obstacles, so that's regulated by national legislation and that's why it's possible. This law further stipulates that national provisions may sell medicinal products only in a veterinary medicinal product or elsewhere, and that a simplified procedure for placing and marking these products is prescribed so as to reduce costs for end-users and is also prescribed for veterinary medicinal products in the field of immunological veterinary medicinal products, also simplified labelling that also reduces the costs to end-users. Three further points should be made to those amendments which have been amended and complemented by the laws, and we have already heard it in the previous debate, that those products that have been forged so far could not be sanctioned by such medicines or those which are placed on the market by criminal law or other criminal provisions, these amendments and additions to the laws of such counterfeiters and those who place counterfeit veterinary medicinal products will be easier to sanction through the criminal provisions. These are amendments concerning compliance with European legislation and the SDP will support these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97755	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97756	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The HDSB Club will vote in favour of this law bearing the E mark, so it is in line with the directives, regulations and all other legislation of the European Union. What is good in this law is that finally the counterfeiting of medicines or medical products in chapter 19 is therefore punishable and arranged, therefore, by breaking one law and high penalties in a misdemeanour procedure. What it is, of course, distinguishes human medicine and therefore products that fall under the Drug Act. So in human medicines, they fall under another law and there are also criminal provisions that are prescribed in that law. This law clearly states that veterinary medicinal products are therefore those used for veterinary use controlled by an authorised laboratory in the Republic of Croatia but also in all European Union countries. There's also a so-called. A parallel procedure where countries outside the European Union can also trade and put on the market and we can import and import medicines, vaccines and everything else from other countries if they are, therefore, licensed in these countries with and comply with regulations with the European Union. This is like that double taxation, so there is no need to control the medicine in Croatia if it comes from the European Union and all countries have signed and prescribed such legislation. Or, if it is not from the European Union and harmonised, this substance is therefore in line with the European Union's legislation. However, despite this happening in the European Union very much, I would say the big things that even the failures leading to, for example, that. Although it is not this time it is a question of food to pass on to the Dutch market imports from Romania, so the same member of the European Union, for example. Lassing that should have a chicken meat and be horse meat. So there's almost something I'd almost say unimaginable even though there are laboratories and strict controls, and we know that it was a year, a year and a half ago, this is exactly the kind of thing that happened, and I'm saying panic was created in the European Union, how much need it was made that it happened in this lasagna that was imported not only to the Netherlands and to the other countries of the European Union and to Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium, etc., it seems to me even in the UK to come flesh of horse origin, now the question is how right it was, how old, how much it was in the freezer, etc. Since I'm being rushed by my colleagues, I don't know why I'm gonna shorten my speech and debate. What I must say, however, is that as my colleague said in her speech before me, animal health is important to human health. Why do I say that? The interesting thing is that here on page 2, it says this, and it says: "The MAH does not have to submit a series of veterinary medicinal products to additional regular quality control in the Republic of Croatia if the control is carried out by the producer of one of the countries. We have an example of aflatoxin which makes the milk industry not buying from farmers milk if it has an increased amount of aflatoxin produced by food, so what they would say is a shadow that was rotten or I don't know whether or not I produce aflatoxins in the body of the animal and in the milk clearly. Who controls aflatoxin? Those who are closer will know, those who are not close to saying in agriculture won't know, and I don't mind, controlled by the milk industry. Every dairy industry, not to mention anyone now, knows who in Croatia makes milk, buys milk. So they're competent in their laboratories to control aflatoxin. When they have some kind of import or milk powder that's cheap then they declare my Ostojnik from Prnjavor or Svilaj says your milk has aflatoxin and we won't buy it for you. He's sinking. He can check. As a milk producer, he can't check it because he's from Osijek, the milk industry, I won't say which, we know which one she said he has, and as much as he wants, every 7 days he calls on the phone asking if he's got an afla, says he has more, does he now have an afl, so that a man spills from 20 to 40 cows as much as he has in his barn spills thousands of liters of milk or that they have pigs, etc. in some use that's not harmful to humans. That's interesting. And not only that, but we also have dioxins in our flesh. And in meat imported from the European Union. I will not speak here which domestic company and large trade chain imported meat from the European Union in which the quantities of dioxins were increased but are subsequently, there are certain, I would ask myself, would I say more in question whether there is a way to hide it? Because they are terrible harm if it is declared that this meat has increased levels of dioxins that are harmful to human health. It was reportedly passed through certain inspection and control structures and this meat was sold and eaten in the Republic of Croatia and has increased levels of dioxins. And it was made for cheaper money because the Germans knew that there was an increase in the pig meat, that there were increased levels of dioxins. So you buy cheap food that's to free the trash and then sell on the Croatian market with the support of controllers and those in charge of control of dioxins in meat. Bird flu, swine flu, blue tongue, cow madness, atypical inflammation of wages, and I don't know what kind of diseases we've had in the last few years on the market, right on the market, because a lot of money is given for vaccines, for prevention, for I don't know what. Now let's note, there were even swans on Savi and they got sick of some bird flu. How come one year there's a bird flu, and then the pt years are gone? That's interesting. I don't think I'm going to say that they're inventing diseases in the world, but if anything else gives her a dramatic picture, so they give her a dramatic picture and then we've got you chasing for the purchase of import vaccines, and here's our Immunological Institute, which, in time, produced and vaccines for animal use, so it's not just for the human use of vaccines... produced in the Immunological Institute, but also for the use of animals. Unfortunately, here it seems to me that we are also allowing and leaving both the market and imports, and by destroying and privatising the Immunological Institute in Zagreb, the Immunological Institute of Croatia, we are allowing them to open their doors wide with such products. So we will again have imports into this segment of veterinary medicinal products, as it says in this law. Of course, I said at first, we'd be in favor of this law because it solves some things that have never been arranged before, but I'm also mentioning in the ministry that I would like to take care of these notes, even though it's hard to believe that they'll be able to stop as well as these years we've been importing food in dollars, almost $3 billion. Exports reached about 55.60% of imports, but we can't reach that food import. That's how it's going to be here, because our domestic veterinary medicine industry is almost zero. Besides, it's good to separate the shops, the veterinary-medical shops, that they're specialized because it's not the same as who works at the pharmacy, who's familiar and whether it's a veterinary technician, a vet, in my day it's been a graduate veterinarian and my wife is a graduate veterinarian, she hasn't changed her degree to a vet but she doesn't have to because she hasn't worked in 25 years. So it is clear that it is separate in all European Union countries, so it should also be in Croatia, not that someone who is unprofessional, I do not say that he is uneducated but in that sense that he knows how to say three times five drops or I don't know what. If there is no education in this sense he can hardly sell medicines for veterinary use. So that's why we are, first of all, in order to adopt this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97757	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First came the honorary Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97758	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, dear colleague, when it comes to the adoption of this law, and everything you mentioned in your presentation, and above all, you looked back at the aflatoxin we had in the milk, we all know that the appearance of aflatoxin in Croatia has done great damage and has contributed to the huge closure of agricultural farms, the dairy industry and we are located today where we are. I would first of all say that just the appearance of aflatoxin that in recent years has not exactly been the effect of monopoly, so the imports of milk that come to us from the outside and where they simply invented aflatoxin in a short period of time. Well, there's been rain and haystacks before, like, a diet that may have affected that, but it's never been as drastic as in this past time. And so today we can conclude that the dairy industry in Croatia has disappeared for the reason that those houses that care that there are no productions in Croatia have certainly taken place but that it is simply imported. We can therefore pass laws as we wish, but as long as we do not protect our own production, who must stand behind their own production, the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If we care about agriculture, if we care about producers, then we must certainly make sure that at certain times we do not prescribe laws that are stricter than the law of the European Union, and we do have such indicators that we sometimes prescribe laws that are even stricter than the European Union does.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97759	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97760	Thank you very much. My colleague Lucic, you're absolutely right, and in that sense I spoke. Namely, there are also the Ministry of Agriculture, the Stočarko selection centre and a number of institutions in the area of agriculture between the dairy producers and the purchasers. Who controls the quality of peasant milk, milk producer? Except for the one who buys, the final manufacturer, the milk processor. So he can do whatever he wants with the peasant. He complained about my Ostojčić from Prnjavor to the Ministry of Agriculture, but says Mr. Ostojčić is only Meggle, now let's say specifically, and Dukat and such are responsible for the control, they have a laboratory. Well, there's a state lab. But no, as no need, they do it very professionally. And as for ours, well, here you can see now it's about the intervention buy-in of pigs, it was twice an intervention buy-in during Cobankovic, you remember yourself, so there were nine kunas of fat pigs as they say in Slavonia, so there were 11 kunas. I don't know since it will be now, because after this necklace or slaughter there's still a mass of unsold pigs left and again when we're looking at imports. So here you go to Bill, oh my God, to any department store and buy a stern packed in plastic, beautiful, beautiful. She doesn't look better, and when you bake her on anything oil or fat, it doesn't look like anything. That looks like a tail. There's no product to ours. But unfortunately, those who run for money, who are said to be greedy, greedy to that extent to poison their own people, would poison them just to earn money.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97761	Second replica, Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97762	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I'll be right back. You said and talked about this imported meat in the malls people buy. Unfortunately, poverty makes people buy cheap, imported, and not ask what quality it is because we are poor. Another thing I'd like to tell you about in reality, and also about this law. One part of you spoke about the Food Act, but I would say that not only the expertise but also the haste of the veterinary inspection, so I could say in one part and agree with colleagues who said that we had really stricter laws before entering the EU than now. But thanks to all of this, we don't have an excess of large broad scales related to zoonotics because it has been successfully suppressed, and prevention has been successfully done. So now let's take the swine fever when you mention pigs. For five years, monitoring was done, five years it was banned from vaccination. After five years and monitoring, the EU has allowed the export of pigs and pigmeat as well as pigmeat, gamers mean to its market precisely because the EU market cannot go to pigs treated or vaccinated, but it must also be free from swine fever but all other and trihinosis that is extremely dangerous to human health and control. And what I mean really is that our fellow veterinarians, the doctors of veterinary medicine, were once at a time of socialism graduated. vets like they were graduated doctors, but they were always real doctors for animals, but for people too. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97763	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97764	Thank you very much. Comrade twilight and I will leave from the end of your line. So, pig plague. In the former state, vaccination against swine fever was mandatory and no one complained about the quality of meat to be contaminated with the vaccine. There was a time of retention, there was a time when, after even treatment, therefore, the treatment of pigs or any animal that may be released, so access to slaughter and use. You knew all that. And they were no more weaker than they are today, but it seems to me. But you said the Croatian people were poor and forced. I'm not a fan of conspiracy theory, but somehow it seems to me that there's some sort of combination of things to do, let's first impoverish Croatian people and the Croatian state and then we'll push them this cheap import garbage that people will be forced to buy. And it happens that way. Is there a conspiracy? There isn't. I wouldn't want to make such claims. But when a man looks a little bit better, he's got it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97765	The final minutes belong to the Deputy Minister of Agriculture to the respected Snježana Spain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97766	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's a very short one. So I felt the need to clarify and provide some additional information regarding the state of milking and, above all, thank you for the support of the VNP law. So, related to aflatoxin and milk-related, namely milk control began in Croatia in 2004. A system has been established, i.e. a central laboratory for the quality of milk in Croatia to the agricultural agency, and the reference laboratory is at the Faculty of Agriculture. So it's a system to be able to accredit the entire procedure. The veterinary profession here has made a significant step and we've done a lot about it. However, what someone here has mentioned here we have prescribed ourselves more than we should have today in the Republic of Croatia 92 to 94% of milk depending on the month is first class. Why? Because the milk of other classes is not bought, but prescribed, it is thus complex to put the economy to the test for three months. So that, of course, a further ransom can be made. It's been over periods and periods, of course, and strict controls, but what we've been doing here for two years thanks to the veterinary profession that she's done in 10 years is a significant step towards easing. Of course, the European Commission should approve this because we did not put it as, in the case of accession contracts, by easing the criteria for small production plants. Therefore, those who produce traditional cheese and small mini-milks to a certain capacity so that they can buy that milk on the local market and can therefore also be distributed in a slightly different way, of course, with the help of the veterinary profession and the veterinary services that help us. And we are convinced that through this not only will we recover here to say mini-drives, mini-milks, mini-siranes which in the Republic of Croatia have amazing things sometimes 40-ac and in Slavonia, but of course in Međimurje and in the northwestern part of Croatia, but also in our islands about the specificities of indigenous products made of Pag cheese, matrimonial cheese and not to forget someone. In parallel with milk, therefore, there are also lighter criteria for small butchers and mini slaughterhouses that also had to establish very strict standards but here we go a little backwards, relieving the criteria. They will be allowed to return to the local market once the European Commission has approved this with the help of the veterinary profession, so that these small mini-drives and small processing facilities can return and start working for the local market again. First of all, for the benefit of our small OPG and the environment in which agriculture is the main source of economic activity. Here, thank you all for your patience and support.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97767	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. First, the esteemed Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97768	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Spanish, I live in the border area, so the Brod-Posavina County border with BiH for 150km along the Sava River of course. I know well that, and I believe there are also in Zagreb, at a time when mass milk has been declared polluted with aflatoxin on the shelves of the supply houses, milk has appeared from Kozarska Dubica. Since BiH did not sign any directives... the others belonging to Croatia and who had to meet the question I am asking you here now is that milk controlled and did it meet the conditions and was it imported at very, very low prices? So, the importers made a lot of money, and ours were declared aflatoxins and destroyed, destroyed domestic livestock. So, from countries that are not subject to EU directives, milk is imported into Croatia. And who was doing it and why was he doing it? That's one thing. And we also know if we were to talk to one of the managers of the processing industry and milk then you would understand and tell you clearly and loudly that our first-class milk is going to export. They send it to their own, like the banks of the Swiss franc and the euro, so to their queens in France, Austria and elsewhere. This is our milk on unpolluted land without pesticides, without all the other resources used from our pastures, this is not our first-class milk being drank or drank in small part in Croatia. Go to France for cheeses, make cheeses in France and others. We drink these from Kozarska Dubica and I don't know any other milk on the shelf. Go see all the milk that is not on the shelves and our milk is powdered milk.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97769	Thank you. Second replica, Reverend Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97770	Dear and esteemed deputies, you cannot as the Ministry and Government of the Republic of Croatia escape from the fact that, with the occurrence of aflatoxin, you have contributed to the destruction of the Croatian village, to the destruction of the dairy producer, because at the very moment when that phenomenon occurred you had to react, you had to save this man who manufactures milk and you had to side by side of all peasants because we know that we have no progress. What did you do? You've just been downgraded to the fact that people who do milk production have disappeared. You have just contributed to this phenomenon of aflatoxin in milk during a certain period of time destroying the mass of economies that will never recover again and we are in the situation in Croatia today. I come from Požega-Slavon County where people simply disappeared, precisely because you as the Ministry and Government of the Republic of Croatia did not stop at a given moment behind these people at a given moment. Because if you had stopped, if you had found a model, and you didn't want to talk about it at all, today these people would have been able to repair the food damage they had, and that's why aflatoxin appeared today. They don't exist today, they're gone and thanks to you, the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97771	The reply corresponds to the deputy minister, the respected Spanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97772	Thank you very much. Therefore, regarding a large number of economies and related to the destruction of farms and pricing, I would only remind myself that the Ministry of Agriculture does not determine the price of anything because, in accordance with the Competition Act and the rules of competition, the state cannot set the price for a very long period of years. And regarding the destruction of agricultural holdings, I'm just going to state the figures and some facts. In 2010, the Pension Insurance Act is amended and obligations for members and holders of family holdings are made not more than one year before 2011 which was the reference year for the Republic of Croatia according to which agricultural production, quotas and everything else were determined. In 2011, for the purpose of amending and adopting regulations, those to be entered in the register must pay the contributions of 4187 of the OPG shall be out of the register. The second figure, in 2014 which is extremely difficult for agricultural production, which had major problems related to natural disasters and elemental unfavourable and was written out of the register by 1203 OPG. So in three years 2012, 2013 and 2014 which were extremely difficult and financial but also natural elemental disasters, natural disasters according to the data that the Payment Agency has written were 3900, so written or merged. Only in one year, the one most important for the Republic of Croatia, which was the reference year, was written at 4187 OPG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97773	The last replica of the gnome-respected twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97774	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So I will now only relate to this, the Ministry of Agriculture is a ministry to listen to and listen to any Croatian peasants and put a point there. All that needs to be done is to enable safe production. Now I'm going to go back to this law that we talked about here and what you were saying, Madam Deputy, and it's about our legislation that used to be stricter. I am personally very pleased that, before we joined the EU, we had really strict legislation in the veterinary sector and I am glad that everything that was done before we joined the EU has been done because we have now been given a space so that in certain segments of production we can, however, say, loosen a few items and articles. We remember very well when it was prescribed, for example, in the markets, a cooling device for milk, dairy products and eggs rose an entire storm and storm, it can't, it's destruction and so, however, it's some regulations and norms that are needed. I'm sure every single one of us who comes to the market will certainly prefer to buy such a product from the lady who manufactures it and keeps it in the conditions of integrity because these are products that are easily broken than those that take it under the counter. So what I'm saying is I'm glad for everything that's really been done so that we can put the whole situation back somewhere today, but I won't say it back because the inspection is still very important in the whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97775	I thank all those who participated in the debate. I thank the Deputy Minister to Mrs. Snow White Spain. I'm closing this agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97776	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 778; The debate on the text of the Law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment within the business period and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law and I am asking you to vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 111 votes for, nothing abstentions and nothing against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Veterinary Medicinal Products in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97777	We continue with the following point, that is: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Budget Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Seventy-seven. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Deputy Minister of Finance Igor Radinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97778	I warmly welcome you all, all of you who are slightly more interested in these amendments and additions to the Budget Law proposed by the Croatian Government proposes to the Croatian Parliament by emergency reading, which I have been given in the task of presenting to you today. Let me first of all remind you very briefly of what this is all about in the Budget Law. In particular, planning, drawing up, adoption and implementation of the state budget, as well as the budget of the unit of local, regional or regional self-government. It regulates and manages assets and debts, primary public debt management, borrowing and guaranteeing, as well as budgetary relations in the public sector, budgetary accounting, budgetary supervision, etc. The provisions of this law also apply partly to out-of-profit users or funds, companies and other legal entities in which the state or units of local self-government have a decisive impact on governance and which, given the source of funding, are included in the general budget. It is clear to all of you that last January the EU Council reached a conclusion on the existence of the so-called state of affairs. the excessive budget deficit and that the fiscal adjustment dynamic is determined in which the general government's budget deficit is sought and should lead to a level below 3% of GDP by 2016. Based on that conclusion, they were published in June of the same year, last year so-called Specific recommendations for the Republic of Croatia or the Country specific Recommendations on the National Programme and Reforms and the Convergence Programme for the period 2014-2017. One of the specific recommendations in this CSR is therefore specific recommendations related to our country regarding sustainable public finances. And one of the points where, among other things, this programme requires further improvement of the budget planning process, which we are doing through these amendments and additions to this Budget Act that we are proposing. The European Semester is one of the instruments in which Member States' economic policies are co-ordinated with the EU's economic policy itself through the 2020 Strategy and should not be forgotten that Croatia's entry into the EU also makes cohesion policy instruments available to us and the Structural Funds Cohesion Fund. Only within the Structural Funds of the Republic of Croatia has more than a billion euros per year. A dozen times more than we had in pre-accession instruments. This has made all our public enterprises, our counties, our cities, our municipalities far more accessible to finance large infrastructure projects on the basis of these European funds to call them so colloktimal. It is therefore also our desire to encourage local communities and economicists to finance and prepare quality projects that could be financed from the European Union funds through an increase in the competitiveness of all these economies and all Croatian regions. Unless we do, and if we do worse, these funds will be allocated to other countries. Therefore, one of the amendments and additions to this proposal is the greater flexibility and efficiency of projects just co-financed by EU funds. One of the changes that we are proposing to you, so through these changes and additions, the possibility of up to 15% of the funds being in the budget has now stood at 5% redistributed, working precisely to increase the usability of the national component in such projects. If I were to speak in general and rudely, then I would divide these changes and the additions to the budget into three parts. The first precisely these changes are in line with the requirements of the European Union, so they are mentioned among other flexibility in the implementation of EU projects. Then a set of changes in the budgetary process, which brings us, therefore, to facilitate the making of the state budget, better or better to say more precise, better or better, more precise accounting in the budget itself, the harmonisation of certain deadlines, certain changes in the budget calendar and not least, of course, better public debt management, which gives us the opportunity to define a public debt management strategy, this proposal for a longer period of time, for a three-year period. The better structured the public debt is the exposure of the country to all risks, liquidity, intentions, operational investments, credit risks of significant reductions, which is why we are making certain changes that I suggest through this proposal. The third group of amendments are changes in the infringement provisions which also regulate the infringement provisions in such a way as to make the descriptions of punitive conduct clear and accurate. Certain pens or fines for non-compliance with new obligations imposed by these amendments and additions shall also be introduced. For example, if the obligor does not publish a financial report on the websites, if there is no report on the implementation of the strategic plan, if it does not monitor the legal and deliberate use of funds paid under specific rules, etc., etc. So the most significant changes to this budget, the amendments to this law that concern the budgetary process, are based on the fact that we have a European semester going on in our annual cycles. We have therefore estimated that the documents we are developing within our excessive deficit policy, which are convergence programmes and the National Reform Programme, are to include them in the budget process itself, and therefore we propose to you. Therefore, the result of this decision is that documents, the Convergence Programme and the National Reform Programme are the basis for making budgetary, budgetary and government and, consequently, local self-government units are changes in the budget calendar, and thus the budgetary process for the next three-year period will have to start earlier than is currently foreseen. The ministries and other bodies at the level of the division will continue to have an obligation to develop strategic plans but will also be the basis for a national reform programme instead of a government programme so far. The guidelines will therefore be developed on the basis of these two key documents, meaning the National Reform Programme and the Convergence Programme, as well as these strategic plans, sectoral strategic plans, taking into account therefore sectoral strategic objectives which cannot and cannot therefore be covered by the national reform programme. Part of the responsibilities for the budgetary process relating to strategic planning activities, in accordance with the Government Act and the establishment of the Government, will be transferred to the Ministry of Structural Reform and Coordination of the European Union Funds in accordance with the competences related to the creation of a national reform programme, so through the ministry of Mr Vice-President Greece. We simply expect that these amendments to the law will achieve a higher level of political responsibility in meeting the strategic objectives outlined for the medium term. Therefore, we are changing the way in which the limitations of the three-year ministry are established, in a way that shows separately the limits necessary for the implementation of existing policies or activities which stem from the current rules from the restrictions needed to introduce and implement new or change existing policies or activities. In the same way, this new one, as I would say, the way the budget works will, of course, be passed on to the units of local self-government and their production, so budget users of local self-government units. Furthermore, the amendments to the law improve the predictability and control of future consumption. It is one of the main instruments for improving the budget preparation process as well as for maintaining or reducing public expenditure levels in the envisaged macroeconomic framework. In this respect, these amendments to the law extend the commitment provision to the State budget and according to the contracts which require payment in the coming years to those budgetary users who assume the commitments to be financed from both their own or their own income, regardless of which they do not currently pay in the relevant budget. One of the changes likely to trigger a little more of your debate is a provision that deletes the existing, the provision in Article 74 of the Law and the rule concerning the allowed share of public debt in the gross domestic product. Since we are planning to make the same provision and this is in line with the European Commission bodies that we are also planning to rewrite through the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which will also come before us very soon. There is also coordination with the European statistical methodology ESA 2010 which contains specific rules for the classification of units in the institutional sectors of society. All statistical reports to EUROSTAT must be submitted according to the scope of these sectors and therefore, these amendments and additions tend to include budgetary and sectoral aspects as much as possible. The most significant differences in the budgetary system of the Republic of Croatia are found precisely in the scope of extra-financial users which, according to the register of budgetary and extra-financial users, are significantly narrower than the sectoral coverage itself. In order to comply with the sectoral qualification to the most realistic extent possible, the definition of out-of- budget users was also needed to be expanded. This will result in Article 99. The laws, through these amendments and complemented by extra budget users, shall be mandatory to apply budgetary accounting only in the part of the assembly and submission of financial reports, while depending on their legal form they may also apply entrepreneurship or accounting of non-profit organisations. These amendments and additions shall give power to the Ministry of Finance to determine the budgetary accounting obligation for individual non-financial users, while the financial reporting obligation remains for all users. It is also accepted to improve the integrated financial and management information systems of the state, i.e. units of local and regional self-government, which achieve better liquidity planning so that mandatory monthly financial plans can be developed so far, but it is not necessary to develop them. So we're reducing some technical levels, but whoever assesses the need to do this, there won't be any interference through this law. It also allows the transfer of its own incomes to the budget, and they are spent from one year to another, especially because of a significant system, we have assessed the user in the VAT system and the planning of their commitments on this basis so that there is little this budget, in fact this proposal changes and adds a little more flexible. So allow for the final, tax-based main objectives of making these changes and additions. As the first objective of harmonising the budgetary process with EU requirements, two key European semester documents in the process of budget planning are mentioned several times through the Convergence Programme and the National Reform Programme. The second objective of strengthening the medium-term budgetary framework, which will be achieved by strengthening the projections adopted by the Croatian Parliament or the representative body of local self-government, with budgets and changes in the way in which budget users are defined, as the basis for drawing up financial plans, means slightly stronger houses, we believe more responsible rules. There is a third objective and better predictability and control of future consumption, and through the monitoring of multi-annual contractual commitments, whether from the original revenues of the state or the budget of the units of local self-government or their own or dedicated revenues which are currently not paid into the budget, but I say must be registered. There is even greater flexibility, I mentioned in the implementation of EU projects. We believe that this is important, you know that it is quite a significant figure and we have discussed this when we adopt the EU budget projects, investment projects are located right through, a significant figure is found as a source in this year's and all of the next Croatian budgets and this flexibility is therefore growing from 5% to 15% in the dynamics that are more efficient and efficient in using the funds. The fifth, last but not least important objective: quality implementation of the objectives, hence public debt management, that through the obligation to develop the Public Debt Management Strategy and to monitor its implementation from one budget year to another, especially because of the significant number of users in the value added tax system and the settlement of their liabilities, based on the source of funding. Here are the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, these would be key amendments to this proposal in the shortest lines, so the draft amending and supplementing the Budget Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97779	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have two replicas. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97780	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, I am interested in the law under which we have the current budget, since you did not say that the Government would be granted an amendment to Article 37, which states that this law enters into force on 1 January 2015, and today it is 28 January 2015. Therefore, we are far from adopting this law. The second thing, during the debate on the budget and the Law on the implementation of the state budget, is said to be passed by the end of the year by the end of the year by the new Fiscal Responsibility Act, which will define the share of public debt in GDP. So we don't even have that provision at this point. Therefore, in order not to have any air space, I suggest that the Government, by amendment to Article 37, amend the date of validity of this law and, on the other hand, to us in the Assembly, only the best message. We often serve laws by emergency procedure, and then we discuss them two or three months later when we put them on the agenda. So we are practically definitely in some kind of air-breathed space under this article 37, because, under this article 37, the old Budget Law has ceased to apply, and the new Budget Law has not been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97781	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97782	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, you're right, you're a colleague of Shucker, maybe I should have said intro, this bill was before the Croatian Parliament last year, it was a plan to bring it in last year, and on the Legislative Committee we practically defined the amendment. It's my fault I didn't say that intro. The Legislative Committee has defined the amendment, and we have agreed and practically, we have not yet operationally but we will accept it at the cabinet meeting when it comes. There are some amendments, and today I have received them, so we will move this date into force in accordance with the amendment of the Legislative Committee. And as for these other substantive remarks about the regulation of public debt, you know and we held a debate here, there was a set public debt, a different definition of public and government debt. The fiscal responsibility law, contrary to our expectations, is still at a certain consultation with the European Commission. So after the talks and with the fiscal committee, we still have little discussion about the law itself, i.e. on the definition of fiscal rule and when we get a definitive response from the European Commission then that law will come before you and I believe very quickly, in any case in the first quarter of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97783	Thank you, too. Next replica, Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97784	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, you have said on several occasions that this law should bring about better efficiency, you are again prescribing new obligations to units of local and regional self-government, budget users, obligations of the ministry, government and the like. I, and this occasion, must express great dissatisfaction with the field on behalf of all the leaders of the units of local self-government, who were also required to receive instructions from the current Budget Act for drawing up their budgets by the end of June. Now it's scheduled until August 15th and we never got it. Furthermore, on 28 November 2014, we adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act which significantly changes relations and incomes in our units of local, or regional self-government. I suggest that, in criminal terms, you also prescribe penalties for those who don't bring instructions at all or bring them in late.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97785	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97786	Thank you, ma'am. Well, we've already led each other and here in this assembly to discuss late guidelines for this year. I've shared your dissatisfaction. I believe we were all about it. We weren't the happiest. The main reason, therefore, is the mini tax reform we left in the public debate over the summer, in which you remember with the units of local self-government, i.e. a very lively debate. with the leaders of the local self-government led here, and this is precisely because of the huge incursion of the budget structure of the local self-government units did not physically leave the Ministry of Finance. That's not the happiest solution. Here, this bill of law, I believe you've read it correctly. We're going a long way early with that calendar. It practically starts these days just through these, precisely and through these two, so making these two key documents of the National Reform Programme and the Convergence Programme, so we believe that in this respect we will significantly improve the budgetary process and that in any case is what it is and perhaps even dares to say the main benefit of this law. Now, respecting all the regulations in the Republic of Croatia is not only this I dare say the biggest problem of all of us in this country. So, a harshly normized state, but respect and foam for what is not realized is a problem. By the way, the Constitutional Court rejected this objection by the local self-government unit these days, and I saw some small articles, and sometimes there were big headlines that both the Government and the Parliament were wrong in, constitutionally wrong in the definition of therefore the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. The heated debates were being held here as well. The Constitutional Court, however, said these days that the appeal of the city of Zagreb, and if I am not mistaken of the Old City on Hvar is not the most just but it is a very different topic. Anyway, thank you for your recommendation. We've installed... The bill and I believe that we will all be together, and that is not only the responsibility of both the Government and the Ministry of Finance, but also many other stakeholders will work on this budget and this year when we bring the budget to the next years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97787	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Slavko Linic, Branko Vuksic and Nedzad Hodzic Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The club will support the proposal for these amendments and additions, but it is hardly possible to take the impression that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support this proposal. She's against this proposal. The introduction says it's an emergency procedure. For what? Because in January fourteenth, the first decision was made that the Republic of Croatia and the Government must implement the excessive deficit procedure. The Government of the Republic of Croatia established two basic documents – the reform process and the convergence plan before April of the month. Somewhere in April, we also have a country specific recommendition that is talking about clear messages from the European Commission what needs to be done. It was therefore expected that before the summer we should complete this document and bring the plan and the 2015 Programme and the 2015 budget not only to the state budget but also to the local self-government unit according to this document. Then I could understand the emergency procedure. What does the European Community's recommendation apply to? To implement all the reforms envisaged and the convergence plan in those three documents during the 14th 17th period, which means the budgets of the fourteenth, 15th and 16th. The fourteenth has passed, no one is talking about it, and otherwise the reforms the government has established clearly speak out what should have been done in the fourteenth, they speak clearly. They say what they should have done at 15. We do not have this in the 2015 budget, nor do we know what the reforms have done in 2014, nor have we given an assessment and what has been done to really implement the programme needed to reduce the budget deficit. Yeah, they're through. Now we're talking about documents that are likely to be established for 2016. Now I'm asking you, what's 2015? It's an election year. How do you normally work in the election year? And in the election year there is always a temporary funding plan to allow the government to set policies based on election results, and we should start in 2015 with I would say the application of this law. I do not believe that we will be able to implement it, because it will be impossible to define it in the election year by the current policies of the coalition government. So, I'm afraid when I talk about efficiency and our fight against the excessive deficit that this law is not even for the plan, I apologize for the 2016 budget we won't be able to implement. We won't. What is also very important in this document, we have been going too slowly over those specifics that we have to give projections for two years to come. Unfortunately, I would say at the 2015 Budget we did not give much importance to the projections for 2016 and 2017 which projections are important because it says if projections are one size of the deficit, the actual deficit must be smaller. That's how it is in these provisions. However, this does not apply to the 2015 budget, nor to the 2016 and 2017 projections. So, what does that mean? Is it possible for the Government to adopt 2016 projections in the election year, I apologize in 2017 and 2018 and that they will be a commitment to the government that takes over the country's leadership based on election results. Therefore, I am afraid of a law that respects some of Europe's recommendations, a law that tells us that we should behave, and as we can see, the existing ruling set did not want to apply it to the 2015 budget or the 2016 and 2017 projections, and the least it will be able to do in the election year. By the way, what were we burdened with? I'm sorry about the reform plan, the convergence plan or the convergence program, you have nothing on the mini tax reform, any letters. And that's what the government found in the 4th month 2014, no letters. We brought it over overnight. We see what the units of local self-government are, we also see the result of such measures, which is an increase in the burden of the poor layer of citizens because we are raising their municipal compensation, kindergartens, taxes and those poor who have received little with a small tax reform, I believe that they will have higher expenditures when we add up what will happen in the next few months by local self-government units. And one more thing, you don't have any documents anywhere about HZZO coming out of the Treasury and being an independent fund, and that's the same thing done. Therefore, the two basic documents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that should have been binding read for each ministry, for each unit of local self-government and which are essentially a guarantee to the European Commission that we will be responsible for the fight against the excessive deficit that we have? We have completely new activities, new policies that are not even envisaged, let alone negotiated with other actors who manage public funds. I guess that's why we didn't get this bill right away, if we weren't right after summer, because that's when the 2015 Budget came in, and we really could have this document and seen what the government predicted in those years. Therefore, as recommended by the European Commission in 2014, 2015 and 2016 was a budgetary period for the fight against excessive deficits. We unfortunately not in 2016, because I do not expect in the election year a serious document budget, that we will be able to really have such recommendations or built-in policies regarding reforms and the convergence plan. One of the major reforms was the health system. This is important what should have been done at the end of 2014, the whole of 2015, which specifically meant a reduction or I would have said the balance of budget revenues with expenditure, reform of the hospital system and everything else. We've brought the budget, we don't know anything about it. In fact, by seizing the system into the funds no longer we can follow the size, because with the 4.5 items that we received here when we determined the budget, none of us are able to assess what this means for the health system. Yeah, but that's why we're seeing the switch, the principals aren't big score, the minister says they're... the results are bad. We don't really know what's going on in the health system. And now I'm asking you how we're going to manage this expenditure side, these reforms when we're actually getting less and less data and trying to avoid any giving of these results. Listen, I have to say that really when we look at the intention of the law and we also observe the transitional and final provisions in which the most important articles that matter are the transitional and final provisions if this government really wants to give meaning to the reform and convergence plan in its budget are Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 13. As you can see, they will only apply to budget 2016 and projections 2017 and 2018. At that moment, the reform no longer applies to these periods, does not apply to these periods or the convergence programme or to the anti-excessive deficit programme. Now we're wondering if that means we're getting a new reform program? That we'll get a new program or a convergence plan? Because without those documents, we can't just build these projections. That is why I believe that this Article 36(1) shows that the Government, which is in office, did not want to apply this law in its term of office, is essentially prolonging all this for the coming years. And I think that's basically the biggest weakness in this law of transitional and completed provisions, because that shows how much we care about being transparent and responsible for making a document. Also one of the important recommendations here, far more important medium-term or long-term strategic planning. We really see that here in these legal provisions we are now proposing to make it important. But we do not have this simple, important component in this document called the 2015 budget, the 2016 and 2017 projection. And when we see that in this election year, we will find it difficult to expect that strategy, then we wonder when the Republic of Croatia will get it? Because 6 months still needs to be discussed about forming a body of government, which means that we will go deep in 2016 when we will be able to talk seriously about the 2017 budget for the first time, the 2018 and 2019 projections. And I believe that this is a great responsibility of this government, because at the end of this year, it could in some way draw up that strategy, prove in 2015 that it is real, realistic and then projected in 2017, 2018, to be in some way a really good starting point for a new government. As far as other provisions are concerned, we really agree that it is good to allow for a greater redistribution, if in some positions we can use the European Community funds to increase our participation and therefore the redistribution to 15% is very acceptable to us. And we also believe that surveillance will be far more quality but of course since 2016. What about public debt, public debt management? Obviously, right now, all we cared about was erasing 60%. Why? We are above it and that the management strategy is not the backbone of these changes but, unfortunately, we are above 60% of the public debt. So even now when we see that we're going to have to enter extra-account users with all their dues, incomes, expenditures and deficits, then we're afraid that this number will really be very large, and then it would be absurd to stand a limit of 60, and we're going to get closer to 75 maybe more. I accept that's smarter than having an unreasonable number. But it's also important if we don't have clearer definitions here on the definition of total public debt, then it's very important to complete the drafting of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. The club will support this proposal even though we feel bad that the government did not apply it to the documents we adopted a month ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97789	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97790	Thank you very much. So, my colleague Linic taught what you were saying has one provision in the article where reform and reform control are moving from the Ministry of Finance. In a ministry that has neither been professionally teamed nor is it a question of whether it can coordinate. But in a situation like this where the state is in such fiscal problems as Croatia at the moment then two people are most interested in implementing reforms, it is the Prime Minister and Finance Minister. From this morning's performance, I wouldn't want to offend him, but he either doesn't know what this is about or he's misinformed if everything he said this morning is countering what it says here, actually what the government was supposed to do. And that's the key to all the problems. It is expected to now form a service that will coordinate other budget users in implementing structural reforms and then create a whole document based on which the Ministry of Finance would practically make a budget, all those involved in these processes know that it is a pure illusion. And this is unfortunately in the moments when the paw had to be firmly put on the budget, when it was necessary to force all the participants in the process to implement the reforms, we loosened that system. And then it's no wonder that many provisions generally apply to 2016. And what you haven't said in principle, we need to be aware that the first part of 2016 will be in temporary financing measures. So practically for us, in addition to 2015, which was made without any basis according to convergence measures lost 2016. And that's why she talks about the dangers in 2017 is because to implement reforms we must be all aware of is the political will of whoever exercises power. And we are unfortunately aware that the political will is gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97791	Thank you. My colleague Linic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97792	I don't mind if the prime minister has his own special task force to control reform implementation. No one has that, so I believe the Minister of Finance himself, he will control the figures, but the narrow cabinet of the Prime Minister would have to make it very clear what the Ministry of Health has done. All reform measures have been charged, all of which are termed and all of this is valued in the document adopted by the government in April. And it's no problem to follow it. Why? Well, nothing's been realized but nothing but separation from HZZO which wasn't a reform measure. So let the bodies appear. It's not just that they're forming, it's that they're doing their job. And what is necessary, I believe that we should open the debate in the Croatian Parliament, the Government's Reform Programme, the Government's Convergence Plan, and see what these documents are and what they were done in 2014 and what is foreseen for 2015, so that we can follow. And it's no problem for us to follow everything that's going on and help to encourage and speed up the reform processes. Or vice versa, I agree that perhaps, the government's will has changed most of them, but may then change the basic documents because we are ashamed of the two basic documents that we have given to the European Community and that we do not realize.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97793	Next replica Marijan Skvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97794	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, an esteemed colleague in your debate has stated that certain measures by the Government are primarily the adoption of the Income Tax Act in a way completely justified by the reason that units of local self-government are raising municipal fees, communal contributions, raising taxes and other things. I don't agree with that because no matter what, I'm in charge, here's the mayor of the city where I was absolutely in the position that no matter what, we have to try not to impose any pressure on citizens in these circumstances, but we have to find other sources of income. And you as finance minister know very well that at the moment you do the budget you have to get that revenue side that's real, well-evaluable in line with the expenditure. I may even understand that if municipal fees and municipal contributions are raised in such a way that you have larger capital investments, years-old ones that perhaps by reducing these revenues you want to compensate with these revenues, but because these are also utility fees and contributions strictly dedicated revenues that must also be invested in strictly certain works, means municipal infrastructure. So when we talk about taxes, then I'm also a little surprised, only now it's been discovered that many cities and municipalities, the municipalities didn't even have a tributary. And the Ministry of Finance and Resort Ministries used to talk about that no one can get support from the ministries if they don't have all the opportunities they have on the revenue side to make them real first, and then if they lack something, they'll get it. Unfortunately, it happened that they were getting funds and they didn't have taxes. And that speaks of this strategy that we must introduce to see well the measures and effects of how we will help. And especially what you said depends very much on this law and on previous laws that the funds that we receive from the European Union must be used functionally and effectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97795	Thank you. Answer, colleague Linic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97796	I agree or disagree, but cities and municipalities raise the level of municipal compensation, cities and municipalities raise taxes, cities and municipalities increase the price of kindergartens and other services. That's a fact. So we can agree or not. And this only suggests that the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it said that with different taxation classes, the tax burdens on citizens were not real when it said it would have no negative effects. Now I'm asking you, in those individuals who have about an average salary, about 5500 kuna, he may have received 70, 80 kuna, how much do you think he's now increased kindergarten fee, how much did he get, say, a cut if it was? He'll have bigger expenses. The entire government philosophy was how to allow more spending to remain citizens. So, what do we conclude? They, I won't say they're rich but who receive over 10 grand, over 9,000 teams may remain something, but to all those below this burden, they'll have more expenditure than government policy. So, that is, I would say pure politics, volunteerism, whatever you want to call it, because that measure is not agreed between the government and the units of local self-government between the Association of Cities that represents these cities and municipalities that simply if it is already going and this measure does not follow the impact. On the other hand, the audit findings are very clear, the cities mostly have deficits, spending above the previous years, so how do you think the spending side will be reduced in a month? It's all what someone needs to know when they make decisions like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97797	Thank you. Nadica Jelish, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97798	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Linic, the main reason for the adoption of this law is the interpolation of the National Reform Programme and the Convergence Programme for the period 2014-2017 and the European Commission's recommendation in the budgetary process. So all with the aim of fiscal consolidation of state finances. From your debate comes the view, or I would say the infidelity that in the next three years the budget deficit will be reduced below the target 3% for the reason that there are these amendments and the additions to the law now, that they were to be passed a year ago. We heard from the finance minister these days that the budget deficit for 2014 is lower by about 3 billion compared to the expected deficit. This is, in my opinion, a very strong fact that it will be done by the end of 2016. Croatia still manages to extract from the excessive deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97799	Thank you. Answer, colleague Linic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97800	I said, as a club, we support this proposal. So we think it is a good proposal to amend and supplement but we are disappointed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not recognize it. Why didn't she recognize it? Because you will apologize, the law is based on decisions made by the European Commission in January, plans by the government last April, and I would say a recommendation from April. So, could we bring them in before summer? We did. Could it have been applied to the '15th, '16th and 17. You also know I would be far happier if the finance minister had said that 3 billion were less, that he had told me which reforms, based on which reforms were implemented under the government's programme and the government's convergence plan. Then I would realize that this is a serious reduction, and otherwise I think it's just a battle of the minister to maybe delay some payments, not admit some expenditure, which is not reform, it's not something that's going to happen in '15. And in '16. And in '17. For a real deficit reduction, we must have clear programs and the realization of these programs. This is required by this document, and it took much, much, much to indicate. So I'm afraid, you know, we now have a problem with the price of oil, less VAT because of it, we're going to have a problem not charged and further, so the question is how many entrepreneurs are going to use the opportunity to pay the VAT per charge, and I'm not counting that we're now going to increase the deficit of local self-government units, which means that the total deficit of the Croatian state will grow as well. That's what I was talking about, and we're in election year.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97801	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97802	Thank you very much, dear fellow vice president. My colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. First of all, I don't start my debate. You are right, the Croatian Parliament should discuss the effects of all shifts in the health system. See item 66 of the agenda of this session, our request to analyse the effects of the Law on the recovery of health institutions in Parliament. We can't open that debate. The other day, I got an answer to a representative's question about institutions and rehab. Imagine, 70% of the money that was broken went to 5 KBCs, 30% to the other 43 County hospitals, and again they left with 31.12's biggest debts uncovered. I hope this point comes on the agenda sometime. Col. Skvarić, you have noticed that it has now been discovered that some municipalities and cities have no interest, and they receive money from the state budget. And by new models, unfortunately more than half of those who will receive money from the state register have no interest because the Parliament has rejected our proposal to install it in the formula of law. It's only when the local resources are used to the maximum that you knock on someone else's door and ask for help. And that's why we have on the one hand local self-governments who can't anymore because they're everything, and on the other hand they haven't even tried anything but they're always with bags in Zagreb. As regards this draft law, Article 37 makes it clear that the original objective was to adopt it before the adoption of the 2015 budget. Why not, I don't know. However, I do not believe that it will apply to the 2016 budget because I do not believe that this meeting of the Assembly will be a budget for 2016, for the sake of the elections, it will probably go to a temporary decision on financing, and then the question of whether this law will be left for the draft budget in 2016. And now, by an urgent procedure, we are discussing a law that was to be passed maybe two months or next year because some of the provisions of the law will not apply in Article 36 I see even on budget rebalances if it comes to it. This Regulation shall enter The law defines amendments and amendments to the law, something that has changed so far been in the law, which is the right of the Government, the Ministry of Finance, local, regional and regional self-government to make decisions to postpone payment, approve of the payment or sale, write-off or partial write-off of claims, if this significantly improves the payment of debt of debtors from which it would otherwise not be possible to collect the total debt. It is the government's authority, similar authority has the Ministry of Finance, but the limiting moment is only the height of that right that amounts to the government by its regulation, and that regulation applies to local self-government. So it's not about the new government or ministry right precisely because of the demands and wishes and what we did when we changed the rules to allow public disclosure of tax debts, transparency and work. I believe that we should add two new items to Article 19 which will also make all these decisions referred to in Article 19 of the amendment and additions, i.e. Article 68. The law on the budget of both those brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and those brought by the Ministry of Finance and municipalities, cities and counties. In fact, we believe that when there is already such a right and if it is indeed introduced in order to collect something because otherwise nothing or even saving the taxpayer will be charged, then it must be publicly available data, as is the publicly available tax debt information. In fact, we have publicly published lists of taxpayers from which those who have paid and those who have made their payments disappear, and those who have made a pre-fashion deal, have come, but also through the application of these mechanisms in Article 68, but that is nowhere to be seen. Because there are no data in the publicly published data as to why someone is now downloading it, and therefore we have also proposed an amendment very simple and very short which we commit to the Government, the Ministry of Finance, units of local and regional self-government to public publication of the data on all decisions relating to the postponement of payment, payment, sale of the write-off or partial write-off of claims by the taxpayer in such a way that these data are published on the same elements by which the list of taxpayers is published, so the exact same content is published on the government's website, i.e. the Ministry of Finance or the municipality and the city and county that made such a decision. It is also because of righteousness in relation to those who do not use such opportunities. This is also because, by sending such a message, the public publication of the data and by making such a contribution to the attempt to solve the problem of the Government or the Ministry of Finance, municipalities and the city, especially if it is a matter of postponing the payment or approval of the payment, would give and direct and a message to possible partners, investors, those who are ordering both local and state communities to rely on them. So this is not only because of some list of shame, as the media unfortunately called it, but because of this transparency and the rights of taxpayers, we believe that these data must be publicly available. We often discussed this and tried to make those data for pre-fashion settlements also publicly available in one place. It didn't work out. They're still missing, so now we have an absurd situation that we have a list of taxpayers with a day of x. But what happens later is no one knows anymore, and there's no way to track down the comparison of that data who came out for what reason. And I'll finish the next one. The majority of citizens, especially poor craftsmen, craftsmen and businesses, are honest taxpayers and pay taxes regularly. Some even borrow money to pay taxes just so they don't have a problem with the state. If because of anything else, then they need to make this data publicly available.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97803	Thank you. We have two replicas, Marijan Škurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97804	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, we agree about that part really need to take absolute advantage of all opportunities and opportunities if you need something that we say in a healthy logic that you know how much it costs, that you know how much you have, and then if you don't have enough to ask someone for help or support. But you said that you asked that the legal part should introduce that everyone has a part of the mechanism in a way that has a communal fee, a communal contribution and a particular cut. Yeah, well, that's good, but who's now preventing the ministries from telling me from the experience that they have their own mechanisms that when you get to them and when you're looking for support or consent for some project that they inside their system have that information. Some ministries have that, and a lot of them don't have that part. Because we really need to have a very effective support option, but we also have to look at the state of the budget. We also heard that many local self-government units are in deficits, they have budget deficits. Some even have a full budget. So how could it have come to that? But, of course, it's all so current that those who have a budget deficit, those who are looking for funds, and haven't introduced everything that needs to be done so that they have great media pompnosity, follow-up. We have cases that you know someone says here I inherited the entire budget, I cut it by 20% and he's now a folk hero. We know very well how to reduce certain dubiosis. There are wonderful examples where for years at all for a time because it's not down, they have development projects, they've taken everything that needs to be done, and no one asks for them. In fact, even when they ask for support and help, then they say wait because they have to be resolved before those who have dubious and who have no. So he can get rid of it, he's got a mechanism if he's in good faith.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97805	Thank you. My colleague Lesar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97806	Dear fellow Members, the first Ministry of Finance does not really have data on municipal contributions and communal fees to municipalities and cities, nor is there a possibility, because they charge it on their own without the IRS or the IRS services and have no such information. Priscilla, they've got a cut for the cuts. And does anyone wonder who's stopping them from coming for help? The law, the law prevents them. The finance ministry as well as any other ministry, unfortunately because it is not part of a legislative solution, cannot have someone's project, plan, a programme that comes for money rejected because the municipality or the city has not issued a tax, because it cannot enter the law. So long as it's not a legislative solution, and for so long as we're going to play this game, I can't, I can't say what I'm going to say right now, we're going to have a situation so long that some municipalities of 60% of the budget will have donations from others or the state, not their own revenues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97807	Thank you. Nadica Jelish, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97808	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lesar, you are right when in your debate you stated that a large number of unit leaders of local self-government are knocking on the door of the ministries and asking for state money for the realization of local projects, and that they do not actually think of using, or taking advantage of, all local opportunities, among other things, the introduction of cuts. So I know municipalities, more of them, which have introduced a 1 percent cut just so that when they knock there at the Ministry's door they can say, well, we've made a cut. So it's simply not popular for local leaders, they're direct executives, direct executives, so for them it's simply not acceptable or popular to introduce new burdens to citizens. And that's why there's actually one situation that when it comes to local self-government units, we don't have budget deficits, and that's why our country is in an excessive deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97809	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97810	My colleague Jelash, I've been able to collect information for all the municipalities, cities as far as the cut is concerned, and you know whose help? State audits. In fact, it's the body that has the most accurate data probably as far as that part is concerned, not only does it have, but it doesn't have exactly how much, since everything else. And then I tried to compare, I wanted to compare, those municipalities that don't have a cut for the last two years how much money they've drawn from other people's mangers. But you know what it is? This information is not available in a meeting place, but the Ministry of Finance would have to kindly ask, so whisper to your colleague Rajenovic if he has time to try to compare it. They don't have a cut, they have so much money and so much. Just on the basis of the 4 comparisons I knew and collected the data that I managed to get those who introduced a 5 per cent cut, more than 5 per cent were always punished because the amount of the budget was such that they fell out of the right to withdraw funds of solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97811	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club Nadica Jelash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97812	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear Deputy Minister with an associate, dear few colleagues and colleagues. The main reason for the adoption of this law is to bring the budgetary process into line in the Republic of Croatia, so budget planning from local to state level with the European semester's demands as an instrument that brings the EU Member States' national economic policies in line with the EU's economic policy. And as we know, the EU's economic policy stems from the Europe 20/20 Strategy, which aims to achieve smart and sustainable development. In fact, in January 2014, as counterpart Linic pointed out in his debate, so already in the first year of EU membership, the Council detected that Croatia has an excessive budget deficit and, in line with that conclusion, established a commitment to fiscal adjustment towards which the general government's budget deficit should be reduced to below 3% of GDP by the end of 2016. In mid-2014, the European Commission also published specific recommendations on the National Reform Programme and the Convergence Programme for the period 2014-2017, including the obligation to improve the budgetary planning process. This obligation is precisely met by the proposed amendments to the Budget Act. So here in the debate I'll kind of repeat those most important, the fundamental changes that are proposed in these amendments and additions. Therefore, above all, according to the still applicable Budget Law, the most important objectives and economic policy policies were established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's three-year programme strategy. The first such strategic plan was also drawn up for the period 2010-2012. On the basis of this strategy of government programmes, economic and fiscal policy guidelines for the three-year period were also adopted. Now, according to this proposal, the amendment and addition of the government programme strategies is replaced by the National Reform Programme and the Convergence Programme. These two European Semester documents, together with the strategic plans of individual ministries, become the basis for the development of economic and fiscal policy guidelines for the three-year planning period. The inclusion of the Convergence Programme and the National Reform Programme in the budgetary process will also result in certain shifts in the timing to say the budgetary process. This specifically means that actions on the establishment of a three-year budget will have to start earlier than this so far, given the fact that key documents must be submitted to the European Commission for consideration and evaluation by the end of April of the current year. The adoption of economic and fiscal policy guidelines moves by the end of July. So, practically from April to July, there will be enough time for the guidelines to be corrected either because of the specific recommendations made by the Council of the European Union, or because of any changes in the initial macroeconomic and fiscal framework. The deadline for the delivery of the instructions for the draft state budget shall be moved from the end of June to 15 August, and the time limit for the delivery of the instructions for the draft budget of the units of local, or regional self-government shall also be moved. As regards the inclusion of European Semester documents in the budgetary process, another important thing needs to be pointed out. Therefore, part of the competence for the budgetary process and the part relating to strategic planning tasks is transferred to the ministry responsible for structural reforms and coordination of EU funds. Therefore, in accordance with that provision, the National Reform Programme in 2014 developed the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds while the Ministry of Finance was more engaged in the Convergence Programme. In addition to the introduction of European Semester documents in the budget process, all with the aim of fast consolidation of state finances, this legislative proposal that we are discussing today sets out some additional fuses, and I will say a few words about it. It therefore strengthens the importance of budgetary projections for the next two years compared to the year for which the budget is to be adopted. Thus far, these projections have not been particularly binding, which certainly did not contribute to financial discipline. Therefore, by amending and supplementing this legislative proposal, it is conditioned that the budget deficit for a certain financial year should not be waived, which in principle means that it must not be greater than that set out for that year by the budget adopted in the previous year. Furthermore, the way to set limits for the ministries for the three-year budgetary period is changed. In the future, the restrictions envisaged to implement existing programmes will be shown separately from the limits necessary for the implementation of new programmes and activities. The next thing is to increase the control of future budgetary spending in such a way as to extend the commitment for budget users, whether it is the users of the state-run, municipal, or urban budgets. Therefore, they will have to seek the consent of the Minister, Mayor or Mayor or Mayor to assume the financial commitments due in the coming years, even in those cases where they plan to finance from their own resources. In addition to all the pre-listed instruments aimed at ensuring greater fiscal responsibility and strengthening the control of budget spending, it should be said to propose and amend this law, which also ensures greater flexibility in the implementation of the budget. This should be achieved by extending the possibility of redistribution of budgetary resources. In this respect, the current Budget Law provides for the possibility of redistributing funds in budgetary items to budget users or up to 5% of expenditure between budgetary users and expenditure on a specific budget item. The amendments and additions now introduce an exception to this rule that will allow the funds to be redistributed to a maximum of 15%, but only if the redistribution is carried out with the aim of ensuring greater resources for national so-called own participation in the financing of European projects. The aim of this increase is to encourage local communities to prepare as many projects co-financed by European Structural and Cohesion Funds as we have heard from Deputy Ministers 10 times as much as we have available under the pre-accession instruments. If the resources available are not used by us, they will be used by someone else, and our competitiveness, therefore, will increase further. Finally, I would like to draw attention to another very important provision set out in this legislative proposal, the obligation to adopt a public debt management strategy. So we are aware that the public debt of the Croatian state is a huge problem and a great danger to the financial stability of the country and in this sense the strategy will have to structure the debt by maturity, by interest and by other criteria in order to reduce the exposure to credit and all other risks to the greatest extent possible. The strategy is also adopted for a three-year period, and its implementation will be monitored through annual reports that will form an integral part of the report on the implementation of the state budget. For the first time, such a report on the implementation of the public debt management strategy should be submitted in 2016, so this law says, that would then be precisely for the 2015 budget. Finally, the objective of amending and supplementing the Budget Law is to obtain a good, high-quality three-year budgetary framework whose planning will take place from the central state towards local and regional self-government, hence, from the top to the bottom, in which much stronger than it has ever been, the strategic priorities of the Government with budgetary funding opportunities, which will ensure greater fiscal discipline and a higher level of political responsibility at all levels of political decision-making. In this context, preventive action is being stepped up to bring budget spending down into a sustainable framework and it is, in fact, the only correct formula for getting out of the excessive budget deficit and the excessive debt of our country. The SDP club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97813	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Well, if this wasn't the time to bring this budget, we could say a clean technical change that simply came about as the need for everything that's been going on in the Republic of Croatia. However, given the time when this Budget Act is adopted, the question is, in principle, raised on the basis of which laws, based on which rules the Government proposed a budget for 2015 in this House, are also based on which rules and which laws will be implemented, and the same can be withdrawn practically parallels and links to the budgets of the local self-government units. Very often, even today, this morning we heard about how order was introduced, if this is how it works in the legal vacuum, the air space of order, then any honor in such order, I would move away from such order. But it is no accident that this law is being passed now and it is not by chance proposed for a simple reason, one government wrote in the reform programme and the convergence measures that will do in 2014 to bring the deficit of the state budget to some level. And finally, what it is to be and what is the key to everything, and I think that against it, not one MP in this high house is to implement reforms that will gradually bring order to the expenditure side of the budget. And that's the key to everything. This has not been done, has not been implemented, reform measures have not been implemented, and at the end of the year two indicators should have been nominally confirmed. One is the share of public debt in the gross domestic product and the other is the government budget deficit for 2014. And we can talk here whatever we want, we can fight politically as much as we want, and by our methodology, EUROSTAT will calculate the deficit of the state budget. It is also foolish that at the moment when Croatia is a member of the European Union, when it is paying money into the budget, the single budget in Brussels and when it draws money from that budget to invent some kind of national methodology that apropo does not exist at all. And now the answer is clear why this law wasn't proposed in the 6th, 7th month of last year. For the simple reason that we adopted it in the 7th month all the participants in this process could prepare themselves, from the state, through units of local self-government and all budgetary users to adopt the budgets for 2015 in accordance with the law. And now that's the key. The key question is here, and that's the means of real reform. What's the connection between those three words? So if we stick here with the National Reform Programme, if we stick to the Convergence Plan, then if someone commits to make certain reforms, if they don't, then there's no right to a certain means. And that's the taste of the whole story. And apparently not proposing this law was to avoid it. My colleagues before me also talked about changes in income tax, changes in the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, its extraction from the Treasury, the putting into some special account. Look, I remember the year that Croatia had several hundred sub-accounts, when normally there were a billion kunas on those sub-accounts. But a billion kunas when the state budget without these two funds was about 50 and some more billions of kunas. And so the establishment, the formation of a state treasury went exclusively for the reason that all assets were in one place and that they were used and used as rationally as possible, which are not enough anyway. And what we do after 10 years when this state treasure is one of the best quality projects that's happened in public finances, we can talk about the effect and fiscalization of this and that, if the Treasury is something of the best quality that's happened. And that's the process that started some other governments. One government has completed the process, unfortunately this government is destroying the project. Do you know what effect the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance will have? Is it in the health sector, have all the measures been taken to bring health expenditure finally under control? And the other thing is, does anyone know at this point what the minus health care was in 31.12.2014? And who's going to pay that minus in 2015? Will it be those who came out of the treasury, say no, that's none of our business, that was until 31.12.2014, that's the problem of the budget or will the Minister of Finance say no, that's your problem? But I'm not saying a word about it. Also, as regards the provision that the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget no longer defines itself, and that this high home does not adopt what the share of public debt will be in the gross domestic product. It's not like that, at least for those of you who deal with this business, there's no figure for political bickering. In person, in 2010, I proposed that the deficit of the state budget become a constitutional category but not because I wanted something but simply out of the power of consumption. For good reason, because it's true. And I don't think there's a finance minister who wouldn't agree to it simply so that all those who spend money from the state budget make a commitment not to be able to spend more than they do. And what's going on with us? We have rebalancing at 12 months. You know what rebalancing is at 12 months? Align exceeded items. Align exceeded items. And now the question is, if we have passed this fiscal responsibility law, who has the right to exceed what this high house has approved? Who has the right to cross that amount that ultimately offers a specific programme and said that this programme will cost so much and so much? And all of these colleagues and colleagues should in principle contain these amendments to the Budget Law. The budget law is nothing more than a response to the time and space in which state money and upgrades are spent, correcting those bad things that were observed in the previous period. So the logical thing is if Croatia has entered into excessive deficit measures, if these excessive deficit measures can only be solved with structural reforms, the logical thing to do is to make a national reform programme. And then the logical thing is that it should be supported by some kind of legal act that will oblige some to do so. No, we didn't do it. And that's why what happened to us at the 12th month that happened to us that we went with laws nobody talked about a month and a half before that, nobody said a word. Well, it's not a reform to extract HZZO from the Treasury. It's not. What will be the effects of this income tax that we'll see in a few months. We'll see what the effects of it all will be together and whether it will move some things or not. So, I remember discussing the redistribution of funds in the budget. It was a first-class political issue so that in the end, we would return to putting it back into the budget. And, however, increase the amount for redistributing funds to European funds. Anyone who develops a quality program and who is given the opportunity to withdraw funds from European funds should be allowed a home component in one way or another to realise it, that they can return those funds. For the simple reason that the funds, in fact, the European Union is not our cost, it should be our profit. However, unfortunately today we are fighting over how much we really pulled out, i.e. how much we're going to withdraw, and we're chasing pre-accession funds with these funds that we're having right now. And what I said in my replica to the Deputy Minister, I cannot agree that the coordination of these reforms is run by a ministry that has simply not been teamed up, which has never done any similar work. I don't know how many people you're dealing with, and they're dealing with these funds. This ministry doesn't have two men who, with all due respect, have no intention of offending anyone because they are not guilty if they haven't done it, who are not at all methodologically aware of what this document should contain. The only ministry that can do that is the Ministry of Finance. Only. And we, in this way, are directly interested, which is the Ministry of Finance, that the expenditure party is brought into the budget, practically disabling and dissipating, and on the principle that some gentlemen somewhere else agree on reform, let's turn these Mr. Finance Ministers into figures. Is that possible at this time in Croatia? I'm saying it's not because if you have a government budget deficit of 18 or 19 billion which is what it is at the moment, and since there will be no shifts, unfortunately, such a deficit will follow us over the next 2-3 years. And then how do you think someone who wants to be beautiful, wonderful, beautiful, most beautiful minister will accept some kind of reform that will attack him all that he takes this one or that one right. There's no way he's gonna do that. But if the Prime Minister doesn't order it, and if he doesn't insist on it, then it won't be done for sure. That's for sure. After all, that's what they showed us last year. Someone must always be on call, someone has to be banging on, but there are also those who talk nice, promise and spend beyond the rules, but I say unfortunately in the amendments to this Budget Act we don't have. We don't have to stop it. And what we do, in principle, besides purely technical changes, because if you change some deadlines until you have to make certain documents, you've basically done nothing but meet some deadlines in order to respond primarily to the European Commission, because there's no need for the European Commission to change by the end of March if I'm not wrong to deliver any documents, then these deadlines wouldn't change. But what is crucial, I am interested in when the time will come when we in Croatia will know in the 4th or 5th month the exact indicators according to which the budget will be created for the next year as well as the local self-government units, without talking about three years of projections. To be honest, all these years, so both these three and those years before all the budget users wrote in their projection requests by heart. You look and you'll see that some numbers are repeated and when the budget comes next year then that budget has nothing to do with these projections. If we're not going to stick to the projections that we've made, then what's the point of making them, that's more so if you saw those projections in the 2015 budget, even a lot of them aren't even made on level three, but they're practically as dazzling as they are. And then it's very interesting to say that the deficit in the budget won't be greater than the deficit that was projected. Now look, colleagues and colleagues, according to ESA 2010, the deficit of the state budget will be what it is, according to the projections, the deficit of the state budget is one thing, and the real proposal for 2016 will be something else entirely. And if the provisions of this article are strictly applied then the question is what are we going to do with 2016. Also, this famous story about the Public Debt Management Strategy. Well, the other day, we heard that story and about the fact that you should have a public debt management law. Do you know what the highest quality public debt management is? Do not accept a budget with a deficit of 15-16 billion or at least ask the question why is such a deficit. Why am I telling you this? Well, because when you look at the biggest last change in the law was in 2009, and you know why it came in 2009, because in 2008, we had a 0.8% deficit based on one policy and that the crisis had not come, it should have brought a new policy to simply strengthen and strengthen that trend. Unfortunately, there was a crisis and it brought us here where it led us. Therefore, what is meant by the Public Debt Management Strategy when the Republic of Croatia was unfortunately in debt where it could, not where it wanted to, not under what conditions it thought it wanted. Unfortunately, today we are paying that high risk factor because we have a high risk factor and as long as we are in excessive deficit measures, we will depend on what the European Commission decides at some global level. When you look at Slovenians have almost 2.7-2.8 percentage points lower interest rates than Croatia, and they are in a much worse situation than we are. Therefore, in a situation like this where you do not have a defined reform policy, when you do not have a defined clear policy to which public finances will look to you in the next three years, which means the Public Debt Management Strategy, and especially if you assign it to the Government in 2016, in which the first three months will certainly be guided according to temporary funding. What are we talking about? Well, that's the same as the Fiscal Responsibility Act. It was easy to say then let's install this because that's when the share of public debt in GDP was below 48%. Unfortunately, at one point, it exploded, and now it's over 80%. But that provision in the Law on the implementation of the state budget was more of a warning to everyone in which we are going and what will happen to us if we blindly vote for the consumers of the state budget, not the state budget. So unfortunately, this is a law that is 6-7 months late and this is a law that will pay dearly for those who will manage state finances 2016-2017. For this reason we cannot uphold this law, and it is purely technical change because because of the very change of law...
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97815	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97816	Just one sentence, please. There's no reason not to support him, but we won't support him because we want to send a message that he's just six months late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97817	Thank you. Here's a chance, we've got a replica. Tomislav Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97818	Well, fellow Shuker, you've just touched what I wanted to replicate in this last sentence. You said in your introduction about trying to introduce order. I think you and your colleague Linic have well touched on the terms of passing this law. If someone was going to really introduce order and have a vision of how to do it, they should have done it at the beginning of last year by half at the latest. We are witnessing that units of local self-government have brought their budgets practically by heart, as the Ministry of Finance has not delivered them within the legal deadline. You mentioned the effect of income tax. There have been many words here from our fellow MPs who obviously do not know how units of local self-government operate and how many rows there are in them. However, the effects of income tax will be very visible and will be felt at the citizens' standard since in that section relating to the municipal standard, everything that units of local self-government on the ground allow their citizens without introducing or increasing their cuts, without increasing their public fees, without reducing the investments of the local self-government unit simply won't be able to service something and will regain awareness of the burden of their citizens. If we look at it that way, and this law that wants to introduce some order is very late, especially since we're in the election year, we know what's waiting for us at the end of the year, early next year. And I think that the effects and taxes on income, including those on mountain-mountan areas where units of local self-government have been seized, where local self-government units have been added further financial commitments with budget cuts. It's just going to be unsustainable. And the effect of income tax will be catastrophic. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97819	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97820	If you're right, local self-government units don't have a second pillar of pension to withdraw several million kunas and thus strengthen the budget. The local self-government units can't afford to stay a few million, and in the state it's several billion kunas, and then eventually you drop the deficit that it is. It will be very interesting after the first two months to see what is the real effect of these tax reforms and what is the real effect of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, because you can't say that if those who spend around 12, 12 and a half billion kunas without their companies communal and if you change their laws deeply and you didn't foresee any law, you can't say that nothing in the state has happened. If anyone in this country invested, it was local self-government units. So let a million, let's say 10, let's say 15, some hundred thousand kuna depending on what their budget was, but they invested and kept certain processes in building municipal infrastructure and everything together. However, the amendments to this law that were not in any government plans and such a proposal of the Budget Act, frankly speaking, raises the question of what the State Audit is going to say. I look forward to a report on the work of the State Audit to ask them how they will be set up according to the 2015 budgets, under which law they will be controlled and under which criminal provisions they will be determined. Because at the moment when the budgets were passed, people didn't even know it was going this law, they were doing it under the old law, and now they should apply this budget with a whole new law. So, given the complexity of the situation in which we are and because Croatia is in a crisis that may be in such things could be swallowed in normal times, even in normal times it is not normal, these times of crisis are something unfortunately not the good intentions of those who have proposed this law at this time. So bad law at a bad time.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97821	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representative Marijan Skvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97822	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister of State with an associate, colleague and fellow MPs. In the beginning, I would say immediately that the HNS Club will support this proposal of the Budget Act, although we have said here that these, this proposal of the Budget Act, are purely technical, because the basis of the Council of the European Union, which has reached a conclusion on the existence of an excessive budget deficit for the Republic of Croatia, as well as the dynamics of fiscal adjustment in order to bring the budgetary deficit of the general state below 3% of GDP by 2016 and perhaps to base the instruments of coordination of Member States' economic policies with the EU's economic policy, and this instrument is the European Semester based on the Europe 2020 Strategy and aimed at achieving smart sustainable and inclusive growth. But in addition to this technical part of covering with EU guidelines, this law also gives many newspapers. I'd like to mention all those seven. First of all, on the basis of the European Semester, the Republic of Croatia has first developed its Convergence Programme and the National Reform Programme for the period from 2014 to 2017. These two documents need to be included in the budgetary process and should first and foremost be submitted to the European Commission for consideration and evaluation by the end of April. Part of the responsibilities for the budgetary process, which relate to strategic planning tasks, is also transferred to the Ministry responsible for structural reforms and coordination of EU funds in accordance with the competences related to the development of the National Reform Programme. It is important to highlight the paper that economic and fiscal policy guidelines for the three-year period so far have been adopted on the basis of a strategy of government programmes for the same period. However, the guidelines will now be drawn up on the basis of two key European semester documents, but also strategic plans, taking into account strategic objectives not covered by the National Reform Programme. There is also the obligation of budgetary projections, as well as the limitations of the Ministry for the three-year budgetary period will separately be demonstrated necessary for the implementation of existing programmes, i.e. activities, resulting from current existing rules from the limits necessary for the introduction and implementation of new or changing existing programmes, i.e. activities. We also note the newspaper taking commitments on the burden of the state budget. The provisions of the law will extend to those budgetary beneficiaries who make commitments under the contracts requiring payment in the coming years, which are financed from dedicated or own revenue, regardless of which they do not currently pay in the budget in question. And, of course, that newspaper has redistributed the budget funds. Of these newspapers, I would especially mention several of them, and those that are particularly related to the work of the unit of local and regional self-government. Because as mayor, we are very committed to the guidelines and legislative provisions that are defined by this budget and we are bound above all by the Fiscal Responsibility Act and the Budget Law that we are very much directing fiscal policy and that is very important in the development of our local units. That's what we're all responsible for after all. I would particularly mention the obligation of budgetary projections where this draft law proposes the introduction of a new rule which would condition that the deficit set out in the budget for the following financial year should not be greater than the lack of the projection set out by the Croatian Parliament or the Presidential Authority for that financial year, Articles 39 and 39a. And here we could say first and foremost that it would be good if budget projections for the current year and another two years ahead of us in the city or in the municipalities could be very well planned. But when you see the structure of our budget, then you know the revenue side that is primarily related to income income, which is always the largest part of the income of a local unit, and you have those other incomes that primarily concern those current and capital support. Current capital support is the support you're planning, but what are you going to get? How you're going to realize them, how you're going to realize them might be susceptible, let's say not to abilities but to greater happiness. We know that a large part of the competition is being held at the beginning of the 3rd and 4th month of the current month for that year and no one guarantees that you will receive those funds at that time. At the same time as we talk about other incomes or major projects that you're doing, these are projects that are being implemented in a few years, then you really need to be a magician to process these things well, determine them well, plan them, and I said at the beginning the mayors are the only ones for it in some way competent and responsible, and if you fail to do so then you have this whole projection under the great sign of the questionnaire. You have to do something, and you have a lot of doubts and things that you absolutely can't influence. The thing is that, in that part of it and at the local level, especially at the level of the ministries that we have already mentioned a little bit, we must have quality mechanisms that we can assess certain things to whom it is, however, in what way it is important that a single unit of local self-government gets support and it gets multi-annual support. Because not only are we important in the framework of the budget users, but we also have extra budget users who are also connected to the budget of the city of Leprechaun and we question the entire system, especially that one development component at that level. And that's something to take care of. We in cities do this to municipalities, but the overall result of this law is doubtful that it will be possible to define well if we do not have strict positions or defined support that will be received by the restoring ministries, and especially by EU funds. When we talk about EU funds, I would also particularly like to highlight the new redistribution of budgets where it is proposed that the possibility of redistributing funds is up to 15%, and so far it has been 5% if it ensures an increase in national participation planned in the budgets to finance projects co-financed by EU funds if it is approved by the finance minister or the mayor, mayor or mayor. Yeah, this is good news. It gives some flexibility in the part of the implementation of EU projects but it is again a matter of large numbers. For the country that, that's very good, when we talk about billions and even big cities when we talk about several hundred million kunas. But in smaller units of local self-government that have budgets at several million kunas, then these 15% of the total redistribution in that part in some way does not have a basis because this is how and if the larger project has to go then the new budget rebalance and then install that part. This seeks to redistribute budgets without new budget rebalances. But I think that in smaller cities and municipalities that have less fiscal capacity and that part for them will be in some way and the thing that they can't use. But in any case, fiscal policy is very important, as I said at the outset, it is an obligation at all levels that we are all very much sticking to. I would especially mention that the principle of transparency is respected. Yes, everyone should know everything, from units of local self-government, county and even state-level if it is already defined on the Internet that within 8 days annual financial reports must be published and that both JLS and budgetary and non-profit users must be published. Then you need to see besides these annual financial reports that we may be expanding all the other data we've said, and taxes and communal fees and communal contributions, as well as other incomes that are. Because really, here's the real point from the experience that we mayors had all these opportunities that we needed in that part to be discriminated against by those who didn't do it, and that's why they use it to be more fiscally weak, that they need support and that's the worst and they get it. The worst part is that we who have our budgets for 10 years and more are positive, we have development programs and projects, we have introduced all the revenue that the law allows us to do, and in the end when we are looking for or looking for earlier, now I can't tell this government how much it accounts for, we were denied for support. A key element which has also been changed specifically to define better strategic planning because planning and strategic planning is particularly impossible to achieve those objectives that we have set, and one of the most important objectives is the amount of EU funds that are being opened to us and it is up to us to take advantage of. And that, in the end, I still have to say that there is not much to mention once again that responsibility is very important, the responsibility in this case is always at the level of the mayor, the chief. Here's a concrete example, when we talk about this Bill on Budgets on one workshop a few days ago, it's defined what will happen when we talk about criminal provisions that if the state didn't follow some of the same things about deadlines and everything, and on this basis these are guidelines and other things, the deadlines of adoption, and on the basis of that, we on the local unit can't do it, and who's going to be punished. Because of course we know that when a state audit comes in, it doesn't ask whether or not you're in the law, you didn't follow it, it's valid, of course you know who's the responsible person and you're referring to articles of criminal law that are absolutely not minor at the moment. The answer was that you can't fight the state, they have bigger horns, and you'll go the way you'll go. I think that we need to discuss this very closely and see that, at all levels, we need to change the same specifics of the same thing, and especially in that part, once again, fiscal policy is very important, and I think that this law will, however, contribute greatly to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97823	Thank you, too. Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97824	You sign a statement on fiscal responsibility as head of the local self-government unit when you propose and plan budget income and expenditure is zero. You can plan some income on the side, capital donations and stuff. If you're in charge of a local self-government unit, you've asked for the ministry's consent in due time with a date and it's changed. But now we're talking about this law, what counterparts Linic and his colleague Shuker said, in our Primorje it's saying, "It's too late for the sexes to go." These laws are being passed late, and you are all the leaders of the local self-government unit and we've brought our own budgets without these laws and without the one in Gorski Kotar without the law in which their income has been reduced, without planning to increase the cuts in order to patch up the gaps with this income tax, everything has been passed in a verse. And now tell me how any unit leader of local self-government could have projected for 2016, 2017 when we were doing it by heart in 2015 and how are we going to get this country out of crisis if we think about it that way and do it that way? My colleague Shuker said all the time I've been talking here, the units of local self-government from one to the biggest ones here in Zagreb are investment, generators this way when they're getting funds, and you know how many projects you have in Rijeka, how many in Zagreb that needs to be realised, how many funds we can't withdraw because we don't have any tenders to report. What are we talking about? It's all too late. We should have talked about what we were talking about long before we made a budget for 2015 and did our budgets by heart for 2016, 2017, because we didn't know what was in Government's head.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97825	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Skuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As for sooner or later whatever you do to me if someone is taking money from everyone it's too late, we all didn't know, it's hard for us all and we're all unhappy, that's a fact. About that... I can agree that the government has come up with guidelines late or not at all, and that's the only thing we can agree on. But if we didn't know about this part, I don't think that's true. We have followed very well the things that are, we know the possibilities of our real income side of the unit of local administration and self-government, we have brought the budget most of the 15th December and by the end of December, and these things could have been planned well, relatively well. Someone who may have come yesterday for the mayor's position with this never dealt with it could have surprised him, but someone who has several mandates and who works on it then believe that you absolutely know what your real incomes are, and what your real expenditures and opportunities are. Yeah, there's a fall, but when you're reducing something on the income side you're planning, then you have to automatically reduce on the spending side. We're all... that we don't want to give up anything, we always want to do the same thing and we want to help someone. My opinion of what I said about us having to help this year and trying to get what these laws have to do with our budgets, at least we have to try, but I don't want to. And what many of my colleagues have to say unfortunately openly, they want to enjoy the comedy that they've had so far, and they've had a lot of support, a lot of resources that someone's been giving them on unrealistic and above all not fair, correct way to keep it going. No, let's all come to terms with what we're capable of and what we can really use. EU funds do not prevent anyone from using very large sources of income, they have not come since yesterday. We've been talking about them for 10 years. I have to say what we've already discussed in some part, because I didn't get... I've turned to EU funds, so I have three projects that are my government and my ministry and... and they're funding for their realization because I knew in time, I've been preparing myself, and that's kind of my solution to get out of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97827	Thank you. And the closing statement on behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Igor Radinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97828	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank everyone for the discussion. So I believe that I will not draw the wrong conclusion if, with all the critical tones being said, I can draw the conclusion that this bill will be a step forward in one more responsible and more transparent management of public finances and the budget law itself, and I think that on that side, and I believe that we will get your support as soon as it is voted. I wouldn't open and pollemize on some topics given this late hour that's open. Of course, I expected the debate to be extended to what is not the topic of the agenda, and of course it must be so in one Parliament and must be spoken about what and how and how this law at the end of the line. One of the two fundamental differences that I still owe me was the thesis of Mr. Linic, most of all, then some of them reiterated that nothing was done on the ground. So we said that the National Convergence Programme, the National Reform Programme and the Convergence Programme become the basis for budgeting in the future. It's been said more than once that nothing was done. We can agree that one part is not, which is because of objective circumstances, but if nothing had been done on that program, I would not have agreed but, as I said, I would not have gone further into debate. Also around HZZO and its separation from the Treasury, we know that there were different opinions of doctors and economists on the other side but that it was made from the sky to the ribs, it wasn't like that, it was in the Health Insurance Act, one shift was made from 6 months around that separation, so it's also not exactly thesis. And as I was saying, I wouldn't be doing a lot of polymizing about it. The effects of the isolation itself say we'll see for the next few days there are definitely pluses and minuses. Thank you all for the positive content of this law. I believe that, as I said, he raises both responsibility and transparency in the management of public finances whoever he is in terms of the political option but also in terms of and not just the Ministry of Finance, it is often said and this role of the Ministry of Finance is significant perhaps, it is somewhat more significant ministry because it has something broader than some other ministries but ultimately the financial policy of the Government and here I agree with... Linic is brought by the government itself, the finance ministry is there to, and also to former Minister Shuker, to agree on the grounds, to care for both legality and justification for certain measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, the budget is an expression of the government's financial policy as a whole, and it must be seen together on this side and the position of all ministers is the same and the vice president and the Prime Minister are certainly a little more equal than those ministers themselves, and I would like to see it that way all together. Anyway, like I said, move forward. We can talk about this dynamic when and how individual provisions apply. This and the rest of us know that it's a pre-election year so that some provisions and I can't come into force and we'll do them for the next budget period, it's through Article 32 I think those transitional... They're determined but I say better than ever, that folk saying that we move things forward towards transparency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the amendments to the approach to this entry into force I think we have this solution that was, so the plan was to be with 1.1. and the truth is that there is no vacuum, the current Budget Law is an existing but this solution I say has not moved before but on the Legislative Committee is practically by the proposings and accepted this amendment that it enters 8 days from the day of publication in the National Journal and will be accepted. And as for the amendments to the Labour Club, we accept in some way the intensity of transparency and openness. I think on that side, this government, and this ministry, and through tax administration, has made a lot of efforts in terms of transparency. We'll see, we still have to figure out what that means from the aspect of the Personal Data Protection Act whether we can adopt the amendment just like this. In any case, the government's decision is a transparent decision, visible on websites, as well as for local self-government units. I say I can't give a final judgment on this amendment, we'll see if we can accept it in this modified form or say it anyway, and for the protection of personal data and some other reasons, it goes quite in detail, we won't be able to accept it but here I thank you for the effort to say so and I believe that we will correct the intensity of the amendment in one way or another. Anyway, thanks again for all the constructive suggestions. As I said, I believe that the law is a step towards further responsibility and the management of public finances and transparency of public finances management, and that these parties will be given the support of most MPs in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97829	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97830	Well, Mr. Deputy, I didn't make it to my hearing, but I'm interested in two questions. Is it one thing that this write-off of debts as far as the mayor is concerned is subject to those million kunas collectively or individually? Because up to a million kuna the mayor can have without the city council. The second thing, it's very interesting to me, and this tax administration issue is going to write off. The tax administration cannot write anything off without administrative procedure. Because in order to write off a tax in the tax administration, you have to make some kind of a deal, you have to come up with some kind of solution from all that together. So this is all a little bit of ad hoc for me, but the question is, what treatment, the administrative treatment will be all these writings? Because no clear criteria have been published and disclosed. By law, the mayor can have up to a million kunas without the city council and if the total write-off is, say, a million and 100,000 kunas, not individually. It's one process that unites. Therefore, the other thing is by law, and by the Constitution, you know who can do what tax revenues are about who can only do what we forgot, but by law only this House can do here, no one else, no one else. Do some kind of law give rights to someone. Also a unit of local self-government across city councils. This is what's left in the air hanging, and I didn't get there because I was talking about something else. But maybe for the Ministry of Finance's thoughts.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97831	Thank you. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97832	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think at the end of this debate we can still discuss the details, I'm not even sure we understand the intensity, actually what you're aiming at. So OPZ 137, if I'm not mistaken, you know that as well as I do, we're prescribed public administrations. Therefore, Article 137 of the Treaty on the The OPZ can talk about write-offs and this regulation, which is already in force, we are talking about these tax revenues, etc.. But well...... I'm based on certain laws, that's right, yes, yes. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, not all okay, I get the good intentions and I say here's what I said later on about the mayor, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] representative bodies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That line is a million kuna, I think it's clear, if it's over a million kuna and one kuna, then it's a representative body regardless of what it's about. But here's Mr. Shucker thanking you for your goodwill, so we can go back to this after this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97833	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97834	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Seventy-seven. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Laburists. I would like to ask the Prime Minister's representative, Deputy Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjanovic, to show himself about the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Amendment No. Article 1(1), second subparagraph, point (a) of Article 37(1), point
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97835	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97836	Sustained? Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers to Article 19
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97837	It's also accepted, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97838	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 86 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 20 votes against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer together with both amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97839	We continue with - Proposal for a law on the internal control system in the public sector, first reading, P.Z. No. 773 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. We have the Deputy Minister with us on behalf of the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97840	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, yes, the Financial Responsibility Act, the Budget Act, and this law is part of a single package, perhaps not attractive enough, not interesting enough to the general public, but a very significant law. I believe in this opening letter, too, I'll be able to bring it closer to you. At first, the government predicted that we would go in one reading, there was a requirement that the law should be discussed in more detail, therefore there is no reason and otherwise it is not bad for us to debate in two readings and I believe that in this first reading we will also hear a series of constructive discussions, proposals, and on that side we will be able to install it to another reading and on that side a little more relaxed perhaps conduct this debate today. Therefore, the internal control system in the public sector is in a function of more efficient financial management and fiscal accountability, and internal audit as part of that system if an independent and objective assessment of the internal control system serves to improve therefore the operation of the entire public sector. This proposal, and relating to the internal control system, defines the role of the set-up units responsible for finance in the budget users, the guidelines for the work of the constituencies responsible for the financing of the budget users and the ratio of the beneficiaries of the budget at the level of the division of the state budget, or the unit of local self-government with budgetary and extra-accounting users under their jurisdiction. It's one significant step forward in this law, I'll tell you about it a little later. The current law was passed in 2006 as part of the EU accession negotiations, as part of the many packages that we had then adopted and then under Chapter 32-Financing supervision was to be adopted and implemented during the pre-accession negotiations. Since a considerable period has passed since the law was passed, and as I said, it is also related to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Responsibility, we have assessed that it is necessary to pass a new law and that is why it is here before you. We've had three amendments to the Budget Law, we've had two, we're going to have another Fiscal Responsibility Act, and therefore this law is necessary to be complemented by these laws. What changes this based on these many years of experience that we see in this area, normatively and the law itself is changed in the name, so the word financial is thrown out. The existing law is called the Internal Financial Control System Act, and now we're throwing that word out financially. The more significant change is that the bonds of law enforcement so far and much more significant than that amendment to the normative name of the law itself, that they are not only beneficiaries of the budget of the application of this law, but this proposal which is before you also extends to companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, but also to units of local self-government and other legal entities to which the founder is, as well, the units of local self-government which they are the founder, companies in their jurisdiction. So the applicable law did not take into account the facts, and that is what we recognized as a lack, the integration of institutions in the public sector, so the bonds to establish internal control alongside ministries, counties and large cities were also the beneficiaries of the budget, so-called budget. other levels of the agency, social care institutions, cultural and judicial institutions, etc. Since they assessed we did not have enough capacity to set up internal audit units and their respective ministries, i.e. The budgets did not affect them with the function of internal control, it remained a sort of gray level and this proposal of the law.... In addition, the conditions for obtaining the professional authorisation of the Minister of Finance to carry out internal audit operations are more clearly defined, so we are making these conditions clearer. The responsibility of the head shall be defined in more detail, but not only by the head but also by the responsible persons of the audited unit for the internal audit recommendation procedure. There have been so far and this has been one basis of uncertainty and inaccuracies, so far there have been some precision about the definition of members of the Internal Control Board in the public sector. We now clearly define this by this law that their term of office takes place for a period of four years, so that it is appointed for a period of four years. Certain infringements have been introduced, I wouldn't bother you with that, but it's one of the shortcomings in the existing law that we are trying to fix with these amendments and additions. In more detail, the responsibility of the head, the head of the internal establishment units in the implementation of the internal control system is prescribed. We have assessed that both the role and tasks of the founding units responsible for finance in the coordination of the development of internal control systems need to be more detailed, and this law establishes that the Minister of Finance will prescribe these guidelines for the coordination of internal control systems. Not least, compliance with international circumstances, so the methodological framework is aligned with the updated internationally recognised framework for internal controls published by.... What is an advantage is therefore these two reporting systems that existed in operation, which is, for the sake of discharging that system, we integrate these two reports into one single statement of fiscal responsibility and that is the benefit of this law to simplify that story as well. And a clearer definition, the establishment of an internal audit on the connection of therefore the users of the budget at the level of the division of the state budget, or units of local self-government with extra-financial users from their jurisdiction, and we bring it down to the bottom level. In short and in conclusion, this proposal provides for a continuation of the development of the internal control system in order to ensure the legality and purpose of the use of financial resources and assets, for which the head is responsible, which is also required of potential beneficiaries of the European Union funds. The responsibility for the internal control system is strengthened, so other than the responsibility of the head and head of the establishment units, there is also responsibility in the part of the internal audit activities. Then, more efficiency is achieved or more efficiency should be achieved in the management and control of income, income, expenditure and expenditure, and assets and liabilities. Strengthens the role and status of finance units as co-ordinator in the development of the internal control system at the level of budget users, and strengthens and commits to the cooperation of budget users at the level of the division of the state budget, i.e. the unit of local self-government with budgetary... budgetary users from the competence in part of the coordination of the development of the internal control system as well as the part of the... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] internal audits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we raise to a higher level and coordinate as much as possible, not just a formal obligation to do internal control. It's content, not just form. Harmonisation with international standards, a single system of reporting in the functioning of the internal control system including internal audit activities, an additional incentive to professional training of the persons responsible for the system, and a clearer definition of how to acquire knowledge of the internal audit carried out for the public sector. Both last and not least important occasional verifications of activities within the audit and prescribed by the central harmonisation unit of the Ministry of Finance. As that proverb said, trust is good, but control is even better and this is being introduced. In fact, it strengthens these central harmonisation units located at the Ministry of Finance. Here's my colleague and colleague, in this late hour, I believe I've made enough arguments based on which I believe we'll get your support for this bill as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97841	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Clubs of Independent Grubišić – Cain. They're gone? They're losing their right to debate. On behalf of SDP representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97842	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. This is one of the laws that doesn't seem to be causing a major debate, doesn't attract any particular attention. Even someone would say this one of those more boring laws, so at least this time. Yeah. However, it is really a law that is important for these changes, so even so far, we have had a law of similar or almost identical title, similar purposes. But these changes to this law that we are making are certainly important and if these changes and this law succeed in at least one segment, at least one company institution or somewhere to make serious savings, rationalize business, prevent some counter-regular action or not give the god of crime a lot, and therefore this law gives assumptions, foundations, gives tools to those who will do so for such similar activities to come. So, the law was passed in 2006 and these are only certain changes, additions, improvements that have been made as a result of certain processes if I can say so or require or coordinate from the EU, but on the other hand, because our practice shows some things that need to be changed. Why, in my opinion, is the most important thing in this law and what is the most important news? This is that it is not valid, therefore only for budgetary users, that it is not an obligation, therefore having an internal control system only for the users of the budget, but also for companies owned by the state and units of local self-government. It is most important to me, though many may have had an independent view of this, but now it becomes a commitment. The villains would say that we had this legally arranged internal control system in state-owned companies probably wouldn't have been FIMI Media or anything like that. But I'm not going that far, it happened for other reasons, because there was no internal control system. But surely the internal control system also has its function, so I would say preventive. So now anyone in the institution, the institution, the company when they know there's a system that might be controlling it except for the director himself, the head of the institution, etc. He will certainly watch and watch what is done and what is done. What is also important and I think that this law is now necessary and that it extends to companies both state and local self-government units. Because simply EU funds cannot be used by those entities, those users who do not have an internal control system in this way. And since over the next few years we expect huge amounts, so a dozen billion euros from EU funds will be a good part of the companies, especially those of the municipal nature, but others will likely be users or apply to those funds without having this legal obligation and such a need to regulate internal controls would simply be disabled to say disqualified. Of course, the better the law and the more detailed the responsibility of the head, the head of the institution, the institution, the society and the other leaders. It shall be arranged, therefore, by means of certification, training, etc. which is also good. But what I also think is one of the important things, which is that the introduction is not so much a beating if I can say not just carrots. So, sanctions are also imposed, infringement measures that were so far gone, and, for example, so far, if someone had under the law an obligation to introduce an internal control system, and he didn't realize anything to anyone. Clear sanctions are now being imposed, infringing provisions. So from 5,000 to 25000 kuna if I saw well for a responsible person who therefore did not establish that system, and by law it is necessary. And so now it will be safe and sanctioned to put it in place wherever it is necessary. It is also important that this law does not require new costs and that people's education and training will therefore be done, etc. And a system has been set up where it is, that it will mainly be about redistributing existing people, so there will be no more serious expansion and thus creating costs. That's also important. It's a year-long deadline for those who were so far not obliged to introduce an internal control system to do so. We think it's an appropriate deadline. It will also be necessary to submit appropriate sub-legislative acts and certain deadlines are prescribed for this. This transitional period, therefore, for companies and others that have not been bonds so far, and now they are... an appropriate period of time for the organisation and adaptation to be made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although for those who have already had an obligation to introduce internal control, and these are not, and there are probably such, this law does not set a time limit for them to do so, but it will be resolved by a rule by the Minister of Finance. I hope that their deadline will probably be shorter, but in any case, it's no longer because I suppose and I hope it's for those who have to establish it now. That the deadline will be up to a year for them, but I expect it'll probably be okay. And also where I see the quality of this law when we look at the public debate which was therefore the Croatian Institute of Internal Auditors has given a significant number of objections and the most remarks and a good part of their remarks has been accepted. This means that they respect the opinion of people who are if they can say so in the profession they are in business. And this says that this law is really done professionally and in quality, and I hope that it will ensure that the whole public system, therefore not only of budget users but also of companies at all levels, from municipalities, cities, county to state level, will behave more rationally, more responsibly and that ultimately we will all benefit from it. That with the same money of state or public money, we might be able to do more than we're bored with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97843	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues who are here. So, we now have a new law that can be established that it must exist as it has existed both so far and because of the introduction and implementation of an internal control system in all legal entities regardless of whether they are state, private or any other. So, each regulated system has an internal control system for the process of finance and everything but also because of the obligation to the EU legal system that we are full members. And this legal system has been introduced, and our legal system is still in line in 2006 with the law still in force. Now it is not fully clear why it has gone into a whole new law given the amount of changes proposed here, but it seems to me that it has changed in a certain way or will cause a certain number of problems and confusions in application itself. I think the existing law was much clearer and clearly defined and defined exactly what it applies to. So the change has already been said here, the fundamental change is that this law extends both its obligation to those who have not been and are making up the public sector, so also to the state-owned companies and units of local self-government. Otherwise, it must be said here that before the Law of 2006 and before this law, therefore, all other acts adopted for the purpose of harmonising the internal audit and internal control systems in the public sector existed and existed in commercial societies owned by the state because it would be difficult to imagine any serious system to function without internal controls being put in place, internal audits. Well, I personally know that in the late '90s, we had a system of internal audits and a system of internal controls. Which here is sufficiently or not sufficiently well explained how, in our opinion, this will be implemented in practice. So here it is said that this now applies to all, to the state, to the users of the state budget, to units of local self-government, to regional self-government and to all companies formed by these founders. This means that this is an obligation and that this applies to both the smallest municipality and the municipal enterprise of that small municipality. If I understand that well? So I'm looking at a municipality of Kapel with four employees and one company, a municipal company held by a cemetery has 3 employees. This law speaks of the need to establish an internal control and audit system. So we're going to implement, it's not the first time now, a law that in 80% of cases won't apply at all. Because it's impossible after all. What's important is different and I think it creates the foundations of doubt and will create a certain chaos in this whole system, if anyone is going to follow that law at all. So there used to be a definition of the financial control system. It is clear and explicitly said that the purpose is to establish control, now it writes an internal control system and says what it consists of, which includes. So the purpose of the internal control system is to improve governance in order to achieve the general objectives, so that is to say the general objectives, everything and everything. So essentially it relates to all business processes of any state body, unit, so all. This means from HEP to the Cemetery Company in the small municipality of Kapel. For that all this law has the same weight. And he says that the internal control system is being established in all the body units of the institution which, in accordance with the given powers and responsibilities, achieves the objectives set, I guess all have some goals set and covers all the business processes leading to the achievement of the objectives set. Very ambitious for a law that absolutely does not have the authority to deal with the team by myself, nor can its articles reach that level that is spoken here in this article. All business processes leading to certain objectives. For example, in JANAF, the business process is probably described as establishing some kind of oil flow system. Is that law talking about it or am I wrong? Is this a system that this one says should build an internal control system? Do you think Janaf doesn't have it now or HEP in heat or electricity production or any other business process? Are we aware of what we wrote here? I may have too limited a technical brain but I'm reading what's written here about it. Is that what that means? If that does not mean that, then it should be interpreted or written correctly and explicitly, which means that all business processes leading to the achievement of the objectives set. So imagine what that means and you really assume there's no such thing in there by now. I can assume that the objective of the program... of the companies involved in the maintenance of the cemetery and in the chapel with three employees has business processes that define exactly what it is and then will have to establish a unit of control that will control how it will be. I'm not banalizing, but that's right, that's 500 units of those that say it's going to have to be applied here, that we're not talking about a revision which is the next chapter of this important law. Each here definition from a to j at all points is also concerned with such strong and large objectives of the internal control system as if it were a corporation of 15 thousand people which is probably supposed to have, therefore Zagreb Holding, but also the Cemetery of the Municipality of Kapela, the same law applies to all. It doesn't say that anyone is exempt from it. It is then written in Article 10.Coordination of the development of internal control systems within the institution. And then he says for the coordination, so the coordination of activities related to the development of the internal control system at the level of the users of the budget is under the responsibility of the establishment unit in charge of finance still nothing. And who is responsible for coordinating the development of the internal control system within the institution and who is not the beneficiary of the budget? So is it a big mistake, is it prescribed in an article of an old law or is it written on purpose because it is not known who would be in charge of the business process and internal control in the FINA I don't know Platnom transport, if it's an internal control system? Because that's how I read it. This is the purpose and scope of systematic controls to control all business processes leading to specific objectives, does not write financial objectives, does not write business objectives, does not write any goals, writes goals. Now, did that law have a purpose to deal with such a level of process, control of everything? He has a quality definition of the general goals that he wants to achieve, that want to improve this or that and then get there... so it wouldn't have been Fimi Media's if it hadn't been for anything. All of these similar systems long before Fimi Media have established internal control and audit systems, ultimately the State Audit has long been present in all these units. I can't imagine that one HEP or that Croatian forest or anyone else had not been installed, is, I know reliably, an internal control system, and long before these laws, because it's an obligation under other laws, for example. The accounting law. So the law is needed, it exists today, it may need to experience certain changes, but you now have until the second reading to clarify these doubts and to clarify in what way everything will be gathered, except for 11 regulations that will be passed by the Ministry of Finance as well as at the end of all the laws that have been passed here lately to say something, so some period is left to bring a whole set of regulations that should be defined or you think it's important to pass the law, and for the application of such and so on less important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97845	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97846	Well, considering the late hour, it's not a good time to rephrase that we're not stretching out, but I will mention that 2006 law that was passed at the time of the EU's negotiation phase, when, in practice, such a similar law was passed when the units of local self-government were obliged to establish such a service. Even the seminars and training of these auditors were organized, however, something like this never came to life. And now the question arises in the sense that local self-government units have hired, formed such a single service within their administrative departments and put those auditors in place. It seems to me that in larger cities, Zagreb has this, how it came to life, I don't know. And now the question is, what with the units of local self-government and you have, in part, touched who have only a few employees, who may have one company with both the budget and the units of local self-government, but also some sort of public society of order, perhaps 4, 5, 6 to 10 million kuna and must form such a service, so hire one such person who will do so. What about the state audit that in practice conducts a complete diagnosis of the work of local self-government units of larger cities every year, these smaller municipalities in more... Now, the very development of this law, and you have touched on what this service will do specifically whether it will follow some technological process in the sense that you have stated in this part from the very beginning to the achievement of the objective and the way the funds are spent or will be divided into their duties and where such a single unit will be formed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And after all, who's going to finance all this? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in smaller units of local self-government. [[Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97847	Next replica Marijan Skvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97848	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, you were talking about an internal control problem when in some areas there is no capacity for someone to exercise that control. Yes, and you mentioned where this municipality that has four employees... For those four employees, it is one who deals with finance and he cannot be himself internal control in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here it is defined that it can be requalified and in some way learn someone else or with the agreement in some way make a contract with someone who will work for you. What's important is you said there were four employees and three employees in the utility company. Then you're told that these four employees are safe and... the substance of the municipality more than 50% just for its... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and this 3 in the municipal enterprise is a very simple solution for such a municipality does not need a municipal enterprise for 3 employees, it needs to be transferred to someone else's jurisdiction and we will not need internal control or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97849	Thank you. And Vesna Sabolic replica. ... And it wasn't wrong, I saw it wrong. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you for this. There's no response to the replica. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97850	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The introduction of the bill states that the aim of this law and the other one that we adopted on 15 December 2006 was to ensure the proper use of taxpayers' money. That's definitely the way it is. But with these changes that I'm all in favor of here, I can see even though it's not exactly about the substantial changes in relation to the first one, although some of the important things are I see the goal and much broader this bill. First of all, I view the bill as anti-corruption laws. I see as that law that will ensure good governance both at the state level, improve that rule and at the local level. All of this will reach another broader goal, which is the affirmation of each individual's politics and public engagement. In fact, it's almost weird that it didn't happen right away in 2006 but only now. As is said in the opening part of the bill, and it has already been stated, I will repeat only the difference that I consider very important, that the provisions of the applicable law applied to budgetary and extra-accountary users of the state budget, units of local, regional, regional self-government but not to the users. It was not obliged to apply commercially, it did not refer to companies and other legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia but also to units of local self-government. This has already been about this, and I'm just going to tell you, for example, the local self-government I come from and where I was a longtime councilwoman at the same time. If we were asked, so these were the million amounts that the city was, say, the city of Zadar gave to certain legal entities. We are, therefore, users here are also important, not only companies, but also users of these budgets whether it is state resources or the funds of units of local self-government. We've been given the answer that we can't know, that the local self-government unit isn't the one to ask its users where he spent that money. And I'm saying these were millions of amounts, and at a time when the poorest budget cuts were cut, this is where they were given. So if it's for some useful purposes, then it's logical that we have the right to question where that money is going. Now that's over, and I think it's one big newspaper. And very good, very good for transparent business both states, companies and units of local self-government and their legal persons and users. I also believe that it is very important that the high value of the newspaper that this bill adopts, which is a greater responsibility of the leaders, the responsibility of the leadership that comes from then and from the responsibilities of themselves, these internal controls and the persons who do so and theirs, is, of course, the meaning of this law and what this anti-cicipates professional training in the area of the implementation of systematic internal controls. I will also refer this bill to it as a complement and the amendments to the Penal Code itself which are precisely about the responsibility of management structures, companies, whether they are even privately owned, let alone owned units of local self-government or state-owned. So when we adopt, I believe that as soon as we adopt this bill, then that rule that we've often made the last few, maybe five or six years ago, maybe even slightly less likely to hear, I didn't know. So here Dr. Alzheimer's will no longer help remove responsibility but I just didn't know it would be a recognition of responsibility for everything that's going on, especially in state-owned companies or owned by local self-government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97851	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97852	Proposal for a Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector, first reading, P.Z. No. 773. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 87 votes in favour, 24 abstentions and no votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97853	We continue with - Final proposal of the law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Turkmenistan on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 771 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. We have with us a representative of the motionary, Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97854	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and I solemnly promise not to use all the time provided for the opening letter. So it's a type agreement based on negotiations that were therefore held in our capital in March this year, signed in the capital of Turkmenistan. On the part of the Republic of Croatia, the contract was signed by Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Mr Klisovic. I'm talking about a type agreement that allows many benefits for our companies that are there and, of course, is fundamentally preventing double taxation and, therefore, I believe and expect that all clubs and all MPs will accept the confirmation of this contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97855	Thank you. The committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Since there's no one registered thank you and I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. And for today, it would be colleagues and colleagues, and tomorrow we will continue on the agenda with points 6 and 7, meaning the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013 and the Report on the Business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2015-01-28-0.u97856	Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Turkmenistan on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 771. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. And please vote. The vote is closed. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 111 votes for, no abstentions, nothing against the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Turkmenistan on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. I can already see my hand in the air, but since it is on the agenda for the itinerary of work today we are scheduled to do a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2013 and here are the Croatian defenders, the 100% military disabled, Croatian wartime people with disabilities, so I want to welcome them all together. I want us to lead the debate in a tolerated and democratic atmosphere, to focus on the problem and to look for the best solutions for Croatian defenders and Croatian society in general. [[Applause.]] Before we start working, I saw the hand of a respected representative, Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
